[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
happy Wednesday smart daters I hope you 
have been enjoying this week of multiple 
podcast episodes 
um in honor of you and in honor of the 
holidays and most importantly in honor 
of the beginning of peak dating season 
I'm excited to be here today with you 
and if you guys have been listening for 
the past year and or even for the past 
two days and you heard about the best 
dating apps of 2023 if you heard about 
why you want to create a funnel maybe 
you saw me on Good Morning America 
yesterday talking about boosting your 
love life what I want to tell you is 
join our online dating love lab which is 
Sunday January 8th where you will be 
completely in pole position to take 
advantage of being the best version of 
yourself online starting Sunday January 
8th which is the busiest online dating 
day of the year so go to 
smartdatingacademy.com go to the menu 
click the online dating love lab and 
invest in yourself it's the best 
Christmas present you could give 
yourself so I hope to see you there it's 
a very small group on on Zoom from 1 to 
4 pm Central on a Sunday instead of 
watching football or doing whatever it 
is you were thinking of doing getting 
ready for work on Monday come join me 
you'll meet me personally it's a small 
group of people and we will teach you 
everything you need to know and have a 
full hour for Q a so now 
speaking of dating speaking of 
information you want to know I wanted to 
do an episode today which is a top 10 
reasons or top 10 signs that you can 
tell of somebody is a player are you 
ready for these because I'm ready to 
give them to you and I'm going to bang 
through these because I promised that 
these were going to be many episodes so 
I'm going to tell you reason number one 
how do you tell if somebody is a player 
and I'm not going to be gender specific 
a lot of times people assume guys are 
the ones that are players there are 
plenty of women players out there as 
well so if I go back and forth between 
he or she please don't get tripped up on 
my pronouns please don't be offended I'm 
just going to say a player is going to 
play play play play play I'm gonna quote 
Taylor Swift today and always because I 
like so many of you am a Swifty so 
um reason number one if this person 
let's say somebody you've come across 
how do you know if they're a player 
reason number one if they are too smooth 
in their delivery they know exactly what 
to say they know exactly what to do 
they've walked up to you they're 
confident they know how to make you feel 
good they're charismatic they're flirty 
they know how to be the center of 
attention they know exactly what to say 
chances are if they're super smooth and 
they're super confident and they know 
exactly how to push your buttons and to 
get you out of blood to blush chances 
are they play this game pretty often and 
they do it with others so again not 
always but keep this in mind if they are 
smooth practice makes perfect so clearly 
they might have been practicing on many 
many other people reason number two if 
you're on a dating app okay you can 
often read what somebody's interested in 
we have our clients looking for only 
people that know what they want and that 
is a serious relationship or marriage 
whatever that is if somebody checks off 
I don't know what I want or I'm just 
looking for something fun or something 
casual that's not your person right and 
if somebody says to you on a date yeah 
I'm just looking for something fun I'm 
just looking for something casual 
chances are they just want to play 
around they are not looking for anything 
serious and here's the Insidious thing 
they might say when they say that 
they're not looking for something 
serious they might start to play you 
like they are they call you all the time 
they text you all the time they're 
wanting to see you five days a week and 
they act like a boyfriend or a 
girlfriend or a partner but remember if 
they said they're not looking for 
something serious and they're just 
looking for something fun this is how 
they're going to behave when something 
is not serious or not fun so protect 
your own heart and know if they say they 
don't want something serious they don't 
know what they want in a relationship 
believe them okay reason number three 
you might be dating a player if as the 
days and weeks go on they are not 
consistent about keeping in touch you 
might hear from them 70 times in a day 
and then maybe nothing for six days in a 
row it could be hours it could be days 
or longer they don't walk their walk 
they don't talk their talk it feels like 
it's hot and cold that's a sign that 
this person might be a player and is 
playing with lots of other people 
consistency and reliability are 
something that's super important to me 
and my team in the dating process as we 
coach our clients towards finding 
somebody who is a really really good lid 
to your pot consistency and reliability 
aren't as sexy as mind-blowing chemistry 
but I'm telling you long term those are 
things you want so if somebody is hot 
cold doesn't do what they say they're 
gonna do just you know again and just 
disappears for long period of time you 
might be dating a player reason number 
four okay 
they don't go out on real dates with you 
it started physically and all they want 
to do is hook up with you at your house 
or their house they don't take you out 
on real dates they're not asking you to 
go out to dinner to lunch to go to a 
movie to go ice skating if it all 
revolves around sex hooking up and being 
physical this person might be a player 
now if you're not sure ask them hey we 
do a lot of stuff at home could we go 
out on a date if they say why what's the 
point in doing that when we could just 
be here and I could just devour you from 
head to toe remember it that's kind of a 
red flag does this person not want to be 
seen with you in public or do they have 
a boyfriend or a girlfriend who knows 
what's going on but you might be with 
the player if they don't take you out on 
real dates or want to go on real dates 
with you um reason number five or that 
sign number five I should say say that 
you're potentially dating someone who's 
a player they're not talking about the 
future they're talking about five 
minutes from now or they're stuck in the 
past but they're not saying what they 
want in two weeks one month three months 
six months if they're only talking short 
term and it doesn't seem like they're 
talking about anything in the future 
with you you might be dealing with 
someone who is a player reason number 
six now we're going to start to get 
really good you catch them in lies they 
might be saying oh you know what I've 
got a girls night tonight I'm gonna be 
out with the girls but then when you 
check her out on social media she's out 
with two guys what does that mean if you 
catch somebody in little lies or big 
lies it's a sign that this person is 
very skilled at that and they're giving 
you a bunch of excuses this person is 
not telling you the truth because they 
are potentially playing you okay reason 
number number seven and this is a big 
one if you are out with someone and 
you're always doing things and there 
doesn't seem to be a real depth of 
emotion to this person you're not 
getting to know them better you don't 
feel like they can emote they can 
express they love they have emotions if 
this person seems like a bot or a robot 
or an automaton there's no feelings of 
emotion you might be dealing with 
somebody who is a player because this is 
all they really have they don't want to 
connect with anybody emotionally they 
just want quick easy relationships where 
there's no depth of intimacy no real 
connection that's the sign you might be 
dating a player reason number eight that 
you could be dating a player sign number 
eight they say that they've cheated on 
people in the past it astounds me even 
at Smart dating Academy with our clients 
that get into conversations with new 
people that they're dating how many 
people are like yeah you know I cheated 
on my ex because they were never home or 
I cheated on my ex because blah blah 
blah the facts and the data is all there 
you guys you got to listen to it there's 
really if somebody's telling you that 
they've cheated on their exes chances 
are what 
say it again for the people in the back 
they'll probably cheat on you too okay 
now sign number nine that you might be 
dating a player again they don't 
introduce you to their friends they 
might want to meet your friends and come 
into your world but they are not 
allowing you into their world you're not 
meeting their people they only want to 
do things on their terms right that's a 
sign that you might be dating someone 
who's playing you why because they're 
afraid to have you around their Village 
because it might be like oh my God who's 
he bringing around today oh you should 
have seen the last three girls you 
brought around last week those are red 
flags that this person may be playing 
you may not be serious if you never meet 
significant people in their lives now 
sign number nine 
um and that was sign number nine right 
oops I can't even keep track of myself 
because I want to get through all this 
information for for you and last but not 
least this is now sign number ten they 
always want to be in control and that's 
really often dates are only on their 
terms it's when they want to date you 
they might be inconsistent and you're 
sitting there just waiting for them they 
might cancel five times but then on the 
sixth time they want to date you it's 
always on their terms when they want to 
see you it could be last minute there's 
very little planning but it's always 
always on their terms not on your terms 
you might be dealing with somebody who 
is a player and is not serious about you 
I hope that some of these signs 
resonated with you and that you'll keep 
this episode on replay if you like these 
give us a five star rating 
um give us write a review on how you've 
liked this week and I hope that you are 
getting closer and closer to embracing 
really taking Advan advantage of peak 
dating season and that you're learning a 
lot from these episodes this week share 
this episode with your friends write a 
review and most importantly like I said 
in the beginning of the episode if 
you've been on the fence join the online 
dating love lab for Sunday January 8th 
from 1 pm to 4 P.M on Zoom by your spot 
today it always sells out and you will 
know that you're taking the first grade 
step in learning so much about how to 
find healthy happy love in 2023 I love 
this make sure that you are not getting 
played now you know the top 10 signs 
that you might be with the player and 
certainly make sure that you yourself 
are not emitting any of the player signs 
until tomorrow I'll see you guys soon 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to the podcast today I am 
so excited to have with you a neuros 
psychotherapist her name is Britt Frank 
she's the author of the science of stuck 
and you guys know if there's something I 
am passionate about it's getting 
yourself freaking 
unstuck so that you can achieve 
everything you want to in your life you 
can achieve your dreams hell you can 
achieve love because you know that's 
what we're all about at Smart dating 
Academy so Britt welcome to the podcast 
with no further Ado thank you so much 
for having me on I'm so excited about 
this conversation oh my gosh and if you 
guys are wondering okay who is this 
person Britt went to Duke she's got her 
masters from the University of Kansas 
she's an W awardwinning adjunct 
instructor and the author of the science 
of stuck published by penguin random 
house so she's kind of a big deal so 
we're very grateful to have you here 
today so first of all what is a neuros 
psychotherapist and how do you differ 
from a therapist yeah this was kind of 
horrifying for me to discover as a 
client in therapy that therapists aren't 
required to learn about the brain wait 
what they're not no they're not neuros 
psychotherapists are trained in brain 
based like EMDR or somatic work but like 
you can become a licensed therapist and 
never once learn about your brain or 
your nervous system and that is kind of 
wild and it's important people know 
that wow okay interesting so we've had 
some interesting somatic healers on the 
podcast and I'm such a fan of this work 
100% so um okay hey so tell us you know 
what is trauma and what's our trauma 
response like let's just go there oh we 
are in it okay so the thing with trauma 
which is so funny to me that it has be 
we have over indexed on trauma 
culturally it used to be that nobody was 
talking about the three pound lump of 
salt and fat and electricity and water 
in our heads aka the brain and nobody 
was talking about trauma to our 
detriment and now everyone has trauma 
and every everyone's a narcissist and 
everyone is a gaslighter and i' I'd 
rather us be talking too much about this 
stuff than not enough but when it comes 
to things like narcissism gaslighting 
trauma it's helpful if we have a 
definition that we all agree on um the 
definition that I use comes from people 
way smarter than I am who've studied 
this and ad nauseum it trauma at simply 
put anything that's too much too fast or 
too soon for our brain and I call it 
brain indigestion 
because that's really what it is now 
I've had some angry DMS where people are 
like that's minimizing to survivors of 
trauma I'm like listen I have childhood 
sexual trauma I have adult assault 
trauma I have trauma every which way up 
to Tuesday for me not for everyone but 
for me and I'm saying trauma's brain 
indigestion I don't think it minimizes 
the pain or the reality of what people 
go through to call it what it is it 
demystifies it it takes the stigma off 
of it no one thinks twice when they get 
food poisoning that they're going to 
puke their brains out trauma is the same 
way except the vomiting looks like 
anxiety or depression or stress or 
whatever else it may be so trauma is 
anything that is too much for our brains 
to process why I don't know because 
brain's brain because genetics because 
environment because who knows what but 
that is what it is I love that and if 
you're okay going there you mentioned 
you've had your own trauma tell like 
tell us what you know what you're able 
to with regards to how this informed the 
line of work that you're in it's so 
funny people tend to get into the the 
healing modalities either out of they've 
you know done some work on themselves 
and they've healed everyone or they're 
so altruistic and they want to be of 
service to humanity I did not fall into 
that category my thing was my life was 
such a chaotic mess I dated the same 
person over and over I was in really 
really like high level capital T trauma 
kind of relationships I thought the 
problem was me I'm like Oh my picker's 
just broken I just you know I don't know 
how to pick the right partner and it's 
just me and D I didn't know that my 
trauma history was very much informing 
my dating choices and my life choices 
and my work choices so after I don't 
know 10 plus years of banging my head 
around on life I finally got my feet 
under me and then in my early 30s I went 
back to graduate school and became a 
therapist so I did not enter this career 
from a I want to help it's I need help 
and now I've gotten help and now I have 
some fun things to 
share I love that sometimes I think from 
our deepest wounds we can be of deepest 
service to people so it sounds like you 
fall into that category like oh at a 
certain point we pull the oh lever 
on life and that's the inflection point 
that sort of goes wait a second I'm 
going to turn the mirror around and look 
at myself and say okay the common 
denominator and a lot of what's going on 
is me so I need to unwind this and what 
happened to me and why I'm doing the 
things I'm doing exactly and the I'm the 
problem it's me thing gets very victim 
blame me I went there I'm like clearly 
I'm the problem but I didn't understand 
what that meant and really I wasn't the 
problem the injury to my brain the and 
even if you don't have tra like high 
level trauma our brains get conditions 
and patterns to seek out the familiar 
not the healthy our brains are not wired 
for love they are wired for survival and 
they're wired for pattern Rec recogntion 
recognition so if you grow up with these 
really not ideal suboptimal 
relationships your brain's going to be 
programmed to seek those out and it's 
not that you don't have the 
responsibility to manage it but it's not 
a personal weakness none of these things 
are about character or weakness it feels 
comfortable to your nervous system 
exactly to seek out dysfunction right if 
you grew up in a dysfunctional household 
with one or two caregivers that sucked 
right let's just go there or bless their 
hearts they did the best they could for 
the parenting that they got right and so 
you that will have a profound impact on 
the things that you do romantic 
relationships friendships the way we 
respond to our bosses at work the way we 
respond to everybody so I'm so glad 
you're here to help us unwind this I 
like this it's too much too fast too 
soon brain IND suggestion and it can be 
something that some people would call 
you know not so significant all the way 
to sexual trauma physical abuse and all 
of the things exactly and the Too Much 
Too Fast Too Soon Is Not My definition 
it's Dr Peter LaVine who pioneered 
somatic experiencing which is a trauma 
healing modality and it it's such a an 
accurate descriptor like you said not 
everything is going to traumatize us but 
things that you wouldn't think of as 
traumatic have the potential just like 
any food has the potential to give you 
indigestion any experience has the 
potential to give you brain 
indigestion I love that and how has this 
helped you 
personally well I'm married now to a 
very I call him a normie he's like he's 
never had an addiction I have he has 
like really like as healthy as you can 
get while still being human parents and 
siblings I'm like who are these people I 
was so uncomfortable dating a healthy 
person that I had to kind of dip back 
into intensive therapy in order to help 
my brain reorient to what it meant to be 
in a healthy intimate relationship but 
we have a good time now oh I love that 
congratulations I mean so much of what 
we do is focused on exactly that at 
Smart dating Academy it's wrapping 
bubble wrap around our clients that have 
some sort of trauma and protecting them 
from making those bad choices again good 
on you you had you got yourself into 
therapy and because of your education 
you knew hey Houston we have a problem 
I'm not going this feels like I want to 
cut bait and run so we become the uhuh 
you can't cut bait and run maybe he 
feels a little boring right now this is 
really good for you let's give it a few 
more dates let's see how this goes 
because when you're with someone who's 
secure and normally you're like uh 
that's so boring 
does that resonate with you not just 
boring but 
disregulated like this is a man who when 
he's done he goes when he's tired he 
sleeps when he's hungry he eats and so 
if I'm like hey do you want to get 
together and he's like no I need a night 
alone I'm just SP how dare you this is 
true even in our married life I get it 
now but it it's every I was like a live 
wire with no insulation I love the 
bubble wrap analogy because every 
healthy thing he did registered to my 
system as abandonment or rejection or 
whatever and I learned in this 
relationship that skillful adult humans 
can argue without yelling I grew up in a 
yelling house I came from a history of 
yelling relationships and I was like oh 
wait a second there are tools that you 
know not I don't like the word normal 
but just for you know tongue and cheek I 
say normi there are tools that Normy 
people use that render us completely 
capable of both feeling anger without 
yelling feel in sad without trauma 
dumping holy boundaries wow what a 
concept oh sorry can I swear on here 
yeah for sure and it's like learning how 
to use your voice and understanding and 
I work with our clients on this all the 
time conflict isn't inherently bad you 
have to put new lenses on about conflict 
and look at conflict as a way to deepen 
your relationship and to increase your 
skills at successfully navigating 
through it without throwing the 
microwave at your partner without 
screeching out of the driveway right we 
don't have to repeat what we've done 
there are skills that you can do and 
look at conflict as a way to get you to 
a better place wow we disagreed on 
something it's more like a speed bump I 
can get over that verses oh I got 
to drive my car off the cliff right 
now I love that and really the medicine 
for conf lict is curiosity when you can 
stay in a curious place even in the 
midst of conflict The Logical parts of 
your brain stay lit and then we can use 
all these wonderful skills as soon as 
your logic brain switches off and you're 
in that fight flight defensive like 
you're my partner but I want to claw 
your face off and I'm saying everything 
I'm thinking then the Curiosity thing 
goes away so as long as you can maintain 
one toe and curiosity conflict is one of 
the price of a submissions to intimacy 
absolutely you mentioned you know being 
with a normie and how it sort of even 
disregulated you let tell me about in 
general how can this kind of trauma 
that's still in our bodies how can it 
manifest itself in dating and 
relationships in general it can manifest 
in any number of ways you know one of 
the ways one of the most common ways it 
manifests is through symptoms anxiety 
stress overthinking overworking 
overindulging on whatever chemical or 
behavior is your thing you know so those 
are the the obvious ones but and again 
people are like but I don't have trauma 
let's forget like don't call it trauma 
then let's just look at how's the 
relationship working is everything that 
you're seeing in the dating World a 
repetition of the dysfunction then don't 
worry what we call it let's talk about 
what it is and that comes to your 
choices you know with me I was able to 
repair they call it the arousal template 
which is a very clinical way of saying 
who are you picking you know like who 
are you drawn towards and you can sit 
down and consciously work with your 
sense of choice your choice power that 
you don't have to choose into that but 
first you have to identify your patterns 
and then identify your choices and then 
start with whether or not it's you call 
it trauma your brain guy a little dinged 
up and if it if not it wouldn't be 
manifesting in your 
relationships I love that your brain got 
a little dinged up and we need to heal 
your brain and we don't talk about our 
brains as 
healable right and what we know about 
neuroplasticity is that the brain is not 
a static thing that is unchanging your 
brain is constantly learning and growing 
and you can train it to do new thing now 
again to the degree that people have 
safety and access to resources and you 
know like levels of privilege are going 
to inform what some people are able to 
access versus other but that's not an 
internal problem that's a systemic 
problem but your brain can change like 
you can teach your brain I used to be 
addicted to drugs I am no longer 
addicted to drugs and I don't identify 
as an addict like that is not a this is 
who I am for all time um it's a really 
it was both good news and bad news to 
learn that I could be in charge of 
changing my brain because I was in the 
well this is just who I am therefore I 
have no responsibility to change it EK I 
was pissed off at my therapist when 
she's like no you you actually have 
choices here we can change the pattern 
we can change the 
wiring uh and no one can do that for you 
like that's the one thing AI will never 
the machines will never replace the 
internal work necessary to have healthy 
external relationships oh my God how do 
we rewire our 
brains well again we need to know 
question small question no like easy 
peasy you know rewiring your brain 
starts with really a commitment to 
honesty with yourself about yourself 
because even for people that aren't in 
trauma responses or reactions a lot of 
times relational conflict is because of 
incompatibility you know like I'll give 
you an example I am a hardcore introvert 
like I can I can human I can do the 
things but I get my energy from a lone 
time my husband is a hardcore extrovert 
and he needs an exceeding amount of ping 
time we don't have high conflict there 
because he's happy to go out by himself 
or with his friends I'm happy to stay in 
and be alone or whatever but if I was 
with a partner that expected me to join 
them that would be a high conflict 
situation so in order to find compatible 
Partners we have to start with who am I 
how am I why like I'm not a texter I 
would never work in a relationship with 
someone that wanted to text me all day 
I'm like don't talk like call me if you 
need me but I don't like to text and my 
husband doesn't text either so again 
that's a compa it's not right or wrong 
it's just what are you about like if 
you're listening to this it's like what 
are you about and we don't approach Our 
dating life like an architect you don't 
build a house without a blueprint why in 
the world would we think that jumping 
into the dating pool with no plan is GNA 
yield good results I mean I I tried that 
it didn't work I love that no you're 
you're so right it's funny I a friend 
that in fact someone I had on the 
podcast a couple of weeks ago Carly 
Holden she was te she was texting me we 
were talk she said like you should watch 
rewired by Joe dispensa I'm like oh okay 
can rewire I was like wow okay theonis 
is on us there's so much that we can do 
and I loved this because I think you're 
saying and I'm saying it's like at a 
certain point you're like wow the 
responsibility is on me but ladies and 
gentlemen guess what the steering wheel 
is in your hands isn't that amazing look 
at this from a place of oh my God I have 
the power 
to change my actions my responses my 
thoughts my feelings I can do this is it 
easy no is it possible yes I find that 
so liberating I love that so much and I 
didn't actually answer your question of 
how do you do it so if you think of your 
brain I'll go back to that if you think 
of your brain as primarily a pattern 
seek like it looks for patterns so the 
way to interrupt the pattern seeking 
thing is to break patterns in easy ways 
so in other words our brain is set to 
autopilot like that's what it likes and 
so think about how often we're on 
autopilot when we get ready in the 
morning or when we're driving home at 
night change the things that are easy 
change the pant leg you put on in the 
morning change the road you take to work 
change the stations that you listen to 
and that will start shaking up the snow 
globe of the brain and that's where you 
can loosen things up and start rewiring 
but in order to rewire the first step is 
break the 
patterns interesting so breaking even 
let's say food addiction or drug 
addiction patterns obviously but even 
small things you can start to rewire 
your 
brain and the patterns that we have that 
can help with small things and big 
things yeah and I say that as someone 
who uses crystal meth you know like this 
works with crystal meth and it works 
with Revenge bedtime procrastination 
when you know you need to go to sleep 
but you're Doom scrolling till 3: in the 
morning it's the same thing it's we have 
our brains get stuck on Loops of 
differing severity but a loop is a loop 
and the first way you can break it is 
just change the P so if you're here's an 
example if you're sitting on your laptop 
on the couch and it's getting laid and 
you're just sort of stuck on it like a 
YouTube Loop like lift the computer over 
your head and move side to side for two 
seconds that's gonna interrupt your 
pattern switch which side of the couch 
you're sitting on that's going to 
interrupt your pattern and I remember 
when I worked in drugg re 
one of my clients was like this is dumb 
like how am I supposed to quit my heroin 
addiction by changing which pant leg I 
put on I'm like you start small because 
when you start small you get a sense of 
I can I can choose I can do this which 
then gives you a little hit of dopamine 
which then builds up and gives you what 
you need to do the bigger things like we 
can't make big moves until we fill the 
tank our tanks are filled with small WIS 
Little T I call them micro yeses it's 
like you may not be able to change the 
thing but what can you say yes to right 
now in service of changing anything at 
any at when you say yes to any degree to 
anything you're no longer stuck stuck 
becomes unstuck the second you find a 
yes of any size I love that so even 
little things so you dear listener maybe 
put a different shoe on tomorrow and you 
probably what I I find so fascinating in 
listening to you right now Brit is I 
don't even know the scripts that exist 
in my brain I don't know what pant leg I 
put on first I don't know what shoe I 
put on first I don't know wow I always 
drive this way and there's so many 
things I can't remember gosh you know 
like sometimes you sit in the shower 
you're like okay did I wash my face or 
not and then I'll do it again because 
I'm so UNC conscious of what I'm doing 
so maybe it's take the soap in your left 
hand and become conscious of what you're 
doing because it's going to feel really 
freaking weird because I'm a 
right-handed person exactly and using 
your non-dominant hand to do things is 
what it's one of my favorite exercises 
because it's so easy to do it will 
immediately jolt your brain out of 
autopilot and again whether your goal is 
quitting drugs or finding a healthy 
partner or going to the gym or whatever 
launching a business we have to start by 
interrupting autopilot AKA this 
unconscious way we're sort of floating 
around through life because again Choice 
power the ability to respond instead of 
just reacting only happens when you're 
conscious of what's happening in your 
body and in your mind and my favorite 
part about this is like have you noticed 
we've been talking for I don't know 20 
minutes and nowhere in here do we need 
to figure out what happened to you in 
your childhood like well why is this a 
problem why is the most counter 
productive question to start with now 
I'm an analyst by trade I get asking why 
is important but it's not a first step 
task like if a building's on fire you're 
not GNA sit there and be like I wonder 
why this building caught on fire it's 
like get out of the damn building or I I 
went surfing for the first time last 
year and it's like you don't ask why is 
this wave so big you just like duck 
under or get on your board we'll figure 
out why later after you get to shore 
after you get out of the building but 
why is this like this is just not help 
it's start with why is fantastic if 
you're starting a business like Simon Sy 
next work I love like deep respect start 
with why is horrible if you're stuck in 
a behavioral pattern or you're on a 
procrastination Loop or you're in an 
unhealthy intimacy cycle start with why 
is completely useless why is a mile six 
question not a mile one 
question absolutely it's funny you know 
I did some work on WOW why do I eat even 
if I'm not hungry and I've always 
struggled with my weight 20 25 pounds 
here or there and the why was well you 
know your parents didn't provide you 
with comfort in the moment and they 
didn't feel safe so and and which is 
great and fine and I love that because I 
don't know that I knew that but now it's 
the now what exactly now what do you do 
with that so yes so if the building's on 
fire it might be great if you're the 
engineer to know why and where the fire 
might have originated from the rest of 
us just need to run so what are you 
going to do in the face of 10 cookies 
being in front of you do you feel like 
you have to eat every single one to 
clean your plate or can you do something 
have a cookie with your left hand and 
break it into 10 pieces not that easy to 
do and I love that example because 
historically I've had lots of different 
Eating Disorders I've had like the over 
stuff and the under stuff and 
restrictive stuff there are some days 
where 10 cookies on the counter they're 
going to get eaten like I know once I'm 
on a like I am a monster right now I'm a 
chair exactly but what do most people do 
they eat the cookies and then it's well 
you know what's the point I just blew it 
so now I'm gonna go out and eat six 
slices of pizza and have a bottle of 
wine it's like you go into autopilot I 
know me too like fully me too girl wait 
did do you have a camera in my 
kitchen but like let's say you eat the 
and I try to do this now after I eat the 
cookies I do not shame myself I S it's I 
call this the follow your drunk friend 
around the bar exercise like when your 
girlfriend is wasted like if you are in 
college and you're following her around 
to make sure she's safe you're not going 
to logic with her yelling at her is not 
going to work you just sort of hang out 
with her until she gets home after you 
eat the 10 cookies and you're sitting on 
the couch and pain don't yell at 
yourself just be like yeah I know that 
was a bummer it's like you know it's 
going to be okay okay I'm still here I'm 
still going to take care of us I'm still 
going to make sure that we wake up 
tomorrow you know I wonder maybe we can 
have a glass of water right now like 
again it's what's the yes not screw it 
I'll start tomorrow it's what can you 
say yes to in the next 30 seconds 
because that will break the autopilot 
cycle okay I love that so that's pattern 
recognition right now I just ate the 10 
cookies my script would be have the 
pizza have the wine how do I interrupt 
the pattern in that moment so the the 
pizza and the wine comes from the 
internal thought screw it I blew it why 
bother going you know like I'll start 
tomorrow that's a lie like that's a lie 
that is not one you didn't blow it to 
you're not going to start tomorrow I 
didn't start tomorrow none of us start 
tomorrow that's like why the diet 
industry gets to exist because we want 
to be honest honestly if I'm looking at 
10 cookies and I know I'm going to eat 
them I will say this is not GNA feel 
good I I'll say this out loud too 
because you can break autopilot faster 
when you speak out loud my husband gets 
this now but it's true because our heads 
are so full of so many things when you 
say it out loud I am going to binge 
today I am going I am and then you 
access your choice power I don't feel 
very in control right now but I know I'm 
going to eat these so I'm just going to 
say I'm choosing to eat these 10 cookies 
and then once you're done say out loud 
what's my next choice that'll interrupt 
the thought pattern of I blew it it's 
like that's not true you can also ask 
yourself the question how true is this 
thought that I'm thinking is there 
another possible option like is it if 
we're talking just calories in calories 
out 10 cookies is going to equal x 10 
cookies six slices of pizza and a bottle 
of wine is going to equal why so this 
thought of I blew it what's the point is 
not accurate so get honest with yourself 
eat the damn cookies but then find 
something to say yes to in service of 
choice power right and now is there 
something we can look at the cookies and 
I love saying it out loud for example if 
this were me let's be honest I could be 
the 10 cookie person could I look at the 
cookies and say I 
know you want me to think that you're 
going to bring me joy and relaxation and 
comfort right now but I know you're 
tricking me that's a that's an approach 
and that approach is useful there's 
another approach that I I use that I 
really like which is instead of like 
like looking at the thing and putting 
our attention on because we always do 
that right we focus on the food on the 
drug I turn my attention Inward and like 
science has shown that we're kinder to 
other people than we are to ourself so 
talk to yourself as if you were a friend 
oh my God Brit I know that you think 
those 10 cookies are going to make you 
feel better and you know what they 
probably will for a second but then 
honey you're going to feel so sick so I 
I know you're hurting right now but I 
wonder maybe we have five of them and 
then maybe there's another way we can 
figure out what's going on but like you 
can actually dialogue with the voices in 
your head you don't have to shut them up 
you don't have to banish them like 
dialogue with them it's weird and it 
feels awful but again that's good 
familiar is what caused the problem in 
the first place so break the cycle by 
turning your attention Inward and 
talking I want that like my PMS voice is 
I want the cookies and I want the burger 
and I want the fries and I want 
everything and then it's okay like I I 
hear I'm not going to yell at you I'm 
not going to shame I was shamed as a 
child for wanting to eat young food like 
that's going to make you fat is what I 
was told like no no no I know and it 
seems like this is more maybe this isn't 
just about the food BR like did 
something bother you this week did 
something happen this week because again 
none of these compulsions exist without 
a pain that's going untended so rather 
than manage the behavior let's tend to 
the pain absolutely you know it's so 
funny that you say that I said to myself 
last night I was at my brother's house 
and they had this chocolate banana bread 
which I brought and I'm looking at it 
and I had that like gentle parent moment 
inside of me that was like you 
know you remember Bella we talked about 
this if you eat if you start eating that 
in an hour you're G to kind of feel not 
great about yourself and you can be so 
mean to yourself and remember we talked 
about what gives you a lot of joy in 
those moments is learning something new 
how about we go watch that video series 
right now instead and if you still want 
the banana bread after that we can have 
that worked like a charm Dental 
parenting is not just for kids it is for 
our voices in our heads like I don't 
have children um which is probably good 
I so oh God so okay inner children inner 
teenagers I I my first career was as a 
play therapist because I wanted to see 
how what do children actually respond to 
because it's the these smaller more 
childlike parts of ourselves that compel 
us to do the things we don't want to do 
gentle parenting we know with children 
is a much better approach with teenagers 
we know that unrestricted unbounded 
parenting doesn't work and it's the same 
thing with ourselves but neither does 
shaming it's you know it's boundaries 
and conscious loving discipline and you 
know praising the good behaviors and 
reshaping and understanding the ones 
that aren't so it's the same skill set 
if you have a parent if you're a parent 
of kids like transfer it to your inner 
World parent Your Parts parent I love 
that so much so let's talk 
about you're so good at so many things 
but you have three steps to unstuck 
let's go there and tell us concretely we 
probably touched on a lot of them in the 
therapy session you just gave me thank 
you 
so let's talk about about getting 
unstuck in general maybe you too have 
food issues maybe you've got money 
issues maybe you have love issues bad 
dating patterns let's talk about how do 
we get on stuck yes I love that and this 
will sort of sum up everything we've 
been talking about and again this works 
whether you're recovering from childhood 
trauma or whether you're trying to break 
a habit or it it works on everything 
which is I mean life's not easy our 
problems are not easy they're very 
complex but this process is not rocket 
science so again people are like this is 
so stupid I'm like I know if I had known 
it was this simple I wouldn't have spent 
20 years as an addict and like a lot of 
money on therapy and school and training 
so here are the three steps three steps 
to get unstuck step one ditch the why 
like I don't know why it doesn't matter 
right now it matter who cares why the 
damn house is on fire get out of the 
fraking house right it doesn't mean you 
don't matter it means why is not the 
thing right now ditch it just leave it 
in the parking lot step two just leave 
it there we'll get to it later God I 
love you step two make a list of three 
micro yeses and again to review a micro 
yes is the smallest possible thing 
you're willing to say yes to not 
tomorrow not next week not after you buy 
the sneakers and the special pens what 
can you say yes to in the next 30 
seconds 30 to 90 seconds then step three 
of that list that you just made pick one 
and do do it now here's the kicker after 
you do it you can't beat the crap out of 
yourself oh yeah well you a micro is for 
working out might be don't try to force 
yourself to take a walk you know you're 
not going to but maybe your micro yes is 
you walk to the door and then you walk 
back to the couch and tomorrow you walk 
to the door you put on one shoe and then 
you walk back to the 
couch oh well yeah all I did was walk to 
the door what's wrong with me that will 
completely like you your micro yeses 
won't work if you shame yourself so step 
one ditch the Y step two make a list of 
three micro yeses three pick one do it 
and then give yourself credit like you 
don't have to have a parade just be like 
yay I did a thing and then you move on I 
love that so let's go into an example I 
am a dating coach run Smart dating 
Academy my clients get frustrated with 
online dating and they're like I hate 
the apps I don't want to go on so let's 
say right now I'm feeling oh I can't get 
on a dating app today it just makes me 
feel awful what how do I get on stock 
great I love that question because I 
hated the dating apps too like a lot 
it's really overwhelming so remember a 
micro yes is not about big steps and 
micro yes is what are you willing to do 
I'm not willing to get on the dating 
apps great then that's not one on your 
list are you willing to look for three 
live and inperson events that are 
happening in your town that week that 
you can go to like apps are not the only 
way to meet humans like you can meet 
humans any number of ways so if you're 
not willing to get online what are you 
willing to do are you willing to if 
you're if you do like the apps but 
you're not wanting to get online are you 
willing to update your profile are you 
willing to phone a friend are you 
willing to hug a puppy it doesn't matter 
what are three things you're willing to 
do in service of this goal and if you 
can't find any then shrink them down and 
make them smaller maybe you're willing 
to log on to your computer look at the 
app and then close it doesn't matter how 
small they are but pick three things 
that you could do in the next 30 seconds 
that would be a yes and then pick one 
and do it and the thing is is you don't 
micro yes the whole way you micro yes 
until you build momentum and then you 
can take bigger steps and then you can 
go further faster and then you can 
sustain this road from here's what I 
want to what I'm what I actually have 
and that Gap is best bridged by 
microscopic steps forward because your 
nervous system stays out of freeze when 
you do things that are teeny tiny small 
m I love that and I'm going to give you 
singles a tip on something that happened 
to me last week that gets to this what 
are you willing to do so let's say let's 
go back to I can't be on the apps for 
even a minute this week okay and now a 
micro yes I'm going to tell you tell the 
people closest to you your friends or 
your family that you want to be invited 
to events even if you're not invited 
basically invite yourself my mother 
called me I was doing two events last 
week I said I'm going to a women like 
learn how to play poker night at my 
son's high school and I said and she's 
like oh what are you doing on Thursday 
night I said oh I'm speaking at the 
women's athletic club in Chicago the 
whack and she said well if I could go 
with you to either of those I would love 
to and I thought oh my gosh that's 
amazing I called the place where I was 
speaking they're like what an honor to 
have your mother join us CED her a 
ticket she's 75 they took such good care 
of her she said by Friday night 24 hours 
later she's like I still haven't lost 
the glow of having been there having 
watched you speak and meeting all of 
these new amazing women she basically 
called me and said can I come I want if 
you're single and listening to this we 
so often feel like we have no agency 
people don't want me at events my 
married friends shut me out what I want 
you to think about in your micro yes 
pick up the phone and tell that person 
hey I would love to go to a dinner with 
you guys if you could bring me as a 
guest like I yes I'm inviting myself be 
bold and say that and see what you get 
my own mother did this to her own and I 
just said or I didn't even know you 
wanted to come I will keep my eyes open 
for more things that are good for you 
take my mother ru's nugget and use it in 
your life if you are single invite 
yourself to things call up a friend and 
say what are you going to in the next 
two weeks and could I invite myself to 
go with you I find it to be so like 
enamoring I would love it if would how 
would you feel Brit if I called you and 
said Brit do you have any fun things I 
could literally just invite myself to 
with you 
I could not love that more like I love 
every single thing about what you said 
because doing that breaks the patterns 
doing that gives you a jolt of agency 
doing that like you hit a lot of notes 
by doing that and if calling the friend 
is too big then your micr step is make a 
list of three friends that you could 
call and then your next micro step is 
write the text and then send the text 
and like find a way to say yes I love 
that so and I would be thrilled because 
when we don't don't ask people for help 
we rob them of the joy of giving help I 
love being able to give to people 
because when I was in my spin people 
gave to me I feel like it's in congruent 
if I don't have outlets in order to to 
give you know it's like a body water 
needs an inlet and an outlet to stay 
alive otherwise it gets gross so it's 
the same thing you know people can't 
give if people don't need so when you 
need it take it when you have it give it 
it's very simple concept I love that and 
interrupt the pattern because we're all 
so self-conscious and we don't want to 
look desperate or thirsty and Brit and I 
are here to tell you it makes you look 
powerful and strong and self-aware and 
you're appealing to our senses of 
wanting to help which makes me when my 
mom did that it made me feel so good 
that she was like oh my I was like oh my 
gosh How brave of her to say please 
invite me 
I love that and it made my desire to 
help jack up on steroids and I made the 
call and couldn't have been happier I 
picked her up and brought her with me 
because I was so delighted that she told 
me I I love that so much and you know if 
you're worried about burdening your 
friends that that's not a really easy 
fix then in your text or in your call 
just say listen no pressure if this 
doesn't work for you totally cool but 
this is what I'm thinking this is what 
I'm wanting if you know someone if you 
know an event if you know a thing it's 
very very easy to not burden people 
you're not you're not calling them up 
and saying give me an invite or else 
you're saying this is something I'm 
wanting this is where my head is at and 
then their head starts thinking on your 
behalf and it's very cool the upcycle 
that happens with that process I love 
that tip so much absolutely and you 
might get invited to something they're 
going to if you invite yourself or they 
may not have anything but you're right 
they'll help brainstorm certain things 
or oh my God my friend Kathy went to 
this singles meetup group for divorce 
women that she loved out in the suburbs 
let me find out from her where that was 
and I'm going to connect you to so you 
can go with her boom okay so that was a 
micro I would say you know what that's a 
macro yes okay so that is a big deal so 
I love this so take this with you to the 
bank y'all go invite yourself or ask for 
help because we all want to help you I 
love that so much and again say yes to 
yourself it's like well how am I 
supposed to meet anyone if I'm just 
going to XYZ it's like go anyway because 
you're G to be better positioned to be 
able to it's sort of like when you buy a 
house you know all of a sudden you see 
for sale signs everywhere or you know 
like when I needed to replace like a 
pipe or Plumbing or whatever I was 
hyperconscious of sync fixtures because 
there's only so much your brain can take 
in so what you tell it to focus on it 
will focus on if you're programming your 
brain keep on the lookout for 
opportunities to expand my life where 
can I say yes where can I ask for help 
your brain's going to start doing that 
automatically and then suddenly you've 
got all these things on your calendar 
that are really fun and exciting and 
then whether or not you meet someone 
your your life's going to get more fun 
and you're GNA feel better which then 
puts you in an even better position to 
spot and attract a person that would be 
compatible I love that and this is very 
much called the red sweater effect right 
if I tell you to walk into a room and 
look for people wearing red you're going 
to come back to me and say B 11 people 
were wearing red if I said Brit how many 
people were wearing yellow you're like 
well you told me to look for red right 
we look for what we become conscious of 
our brains have as we've known and you 
guys have heard me talk about this on 
the show before we have a negativity 
bias and that's wired into us so we 
survive and we don't get eaten by the 
tiger or the grizzly bear right like oh 
what's that we look at an angry face and 
we're like oh I don't want to talk to 
that person here what I want you to do 
is actively program into your head a 
positivity bias as you're walking down 
the street each day and this is just a 
fun exercise to do I do this all the 
time when you see people walking by tell 
yourself something positive about that 
person you know I bet that guy is a 
great uncle he looks like he'd be so 
much fun and I'm sure that he spins his 
nephews and nieces around and that like 
grabs one arm and one leg and he's that 
Uncle that everybody loves that woman 
over there wow she's got a really 
interesting style I bet that she looks 
all over really carefully to find 
exactly how her look should be and I bet 
you she just I bet she gets a lot of 
attention everywhere she goes in a good 
way do this and interrupt the negativity 
in your brain that's looking for 
stranger danger instead tell yourself 
good stories around people and you know 
what happens it's a very strange effect 
I don't know if it's vibration but when 
you start to tell yourself good things 
about people it must change the energy 
we're giving out or the facial 
expressions that we have but I've seen 
people walk up to me and say something 
nice to me when that happens it's really 
weird can you explain that uh no but I 
can validate that that's a thing and it 
happens and I I I could explain it I 
mean what you're saying is absolutely 
what we know about emotions is that 
they're contagious and that emotions 
actually have like physical man if 
someone's angry if you walk into a room 
you can feel the tension right you can 
feel and that's contagious so if you're 
walking around with a negativity bias 
all day I suck I'm not enough I'm never 
gonna have the thing whatever that's 
going to show up in how you physically 
show up because you know emotions are 
energy in the body it's not just a con 
concept it's like emotions are 
physiological so if you're trying to 
conjure up stories of possibility and 
curiosity and positivity it's not about 
thinking positive we're not saying 
ignore the pain we're saying if you're 
going to be talking to yourself all day 
anyway why not try to conjure up 
something possible not even positive but 
possible about the people around you 
that's going to change your orientation 
and again we know emotions are 
contagious so if you are giving off this 
energy of curiosity it's very magnetic 
not just with dating but just with life 
the energy of openness and expansion and 
curiosity we like people that we feel 
are open to us you know people are just 
safer to approach when they're not all 
balled up and constricted and growly and 
walled off and you can be open and 
curious and still have boundaries my 
thing was but if I'm open and curious 
I'm going to be vulnerable to getting 
hurt it's like not necessarily that's 
not necessarily true it doesn't mean be 
boundaryless and just have hours long 
you know interactions with people but 
curiosity I wonder what that person 
might be good at I love that so much I 
wonder what you know that person's story 
is I really like their shoes that does 
change your physiology which then 
changes your emotions which then changes 
how you're attracting and who you're 
attracting absolutely and being 
self-aware that wow this does give me 
pause I'm nervous would somebody think 
I'm fake right and being vulnerable is 
about being curious and also willing to 
exchange that information about yourself 
right it's like if I'm like wow frit I 
love those red patent shoes they're so 
awesome where did you find those I've 
been looking for a pair right and then 
all of the sudden then I'll be like you 
know it's hard for me to find shoes 
because I have to wear a double wi 
because I have a bunion so it you know 
and all the sudden we get into this 
conversation that now I've disclosed 
something that I don't often share and 
you can be like oh my God my aunt has 
that we've got these three amazing sites 
where we get her the most Chic Shoes 
right all of the sudden look at that and 
it's not me saying wow you know when I 
was nine years old my father blah blah 
blah that vulnerability without 
boundaries is oversharing says bne brown 
right you don't want to go there but 
just something that's interesting or 
intriguing about yourself I love that 
and even if someone's talking to you and 
they're interesting it's amazing to me 
how rare people get told this and how I 
don't do it in a fake way but if someone 
is saying something interesting I will 
say oh my God you are so interesting or 
that was so interesting and people 
really like heing that and if you're not 
being fake that's another way to connect 
because we're all programmed to keep 
walls up I don't I may not necessarily 
want to date you or have you in my life 
but if you're saying something 
interesting I'll validate that that's 
interesting then we've created a micro 
connection you might not be my long-term 
person but that micro connection gives 
me a hit of agency and choice and 
dopamine and then I can take that juice 
and drive wherever else I want to go ah 
Brit you're amazing um I wish we could 
talk for another eight hours 
so we can order your book the science of 
stock I'll put a link to Brit's book in 
the show notes and any place else we can 
find more of you oh my God you're 
awesome you're super interesting I'm 
like like shoot we're out of time um 
find me on Instagram where I have 
horrible boundaries I'm on there all the 
time and I don't have a team it's just 
me so come say hi it's at BT Frank I'll 
be there I answer all my DMs myself and 
all the messages myself because I just 
love seeing the good that social media 
can do I mean it's a jungle but there's 
also a lot of potential for real 
connection to happen out there I love 
that and you use it for good yes right 
and we're gonna use it for social not 
antisocial media and you guys if you 
love this episode with Brit as much as I 
did go in give it a fstar rating write 
what resonated with you okay I read 
every single review and I will send you 
love right and I'll give you good Juju 
so that energy will come to you so do 
that it would mean the world to both 
Britt and me and if you feel like you're 
stuck in the dating world Peak dating 
season is coming get excited don't look 
at it with Dread what can we micro and 
macro freaking yes ourselves to schedule 
a consult with us sign up for our 
newsletter at Smart dating academy.com 
follow us on Instagram and share this 
podcast episode with the people in your 
life that need it because who isn't 
stuck who doesn't have big T little te 
trauma brain indigestion we're all stuck 
in some ways share this with someone who 
needs it and good things will come your 
way until next week I vid you 
farewell 


it's so funny people tend to get into 
the the healing modalities either out of 
they've you know done some work on 
themselves and they've healed everyone 
or they're so altruistic and they want 
to be of service to humanity I did not 
fall into that category my thing was my 
life was such a chaotic mess I dated the 
same person over and over I was in 
really really like high level capital T 
trauma kind of relationships I thought 
the problem was me I'm like Oh my 
picker's just broken I just you know I 
don't know how to pick the right partner 
it's just me and D I didn't know that my 
trauma history was very much informing 
my dating choices and my life choices 
and my work choices so after I don't 
know 10 plus years of banging my head 
around on life I finally got my feet 
under me and then in my early 30s I went 
back to graduate school and became a 
therapist so I did not enter this career 
from a I want to help it's I need help 
and now I've gotten help and now I have 
some fun things to 
share 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
hello today I wanted to share with you 
something that has helped me a lot in my 
life to reduce anxiety and become a lot 
happier in the last few weeks you know 
those of you that know me I've started 
this company 14 years ago I'm the mom of 
a 15-year-old a 
19-year-old I'm close to my parents I 
have a brother sister-in-law and nephews 
all local lots of friends a daughter 
that just went away to college a son 
that plays three Sports in high school 
so I have a very full life and I coach 
hundreds of clients per year and there's 
a lot of things that 
happen in my day and you know I'll get 
raw like there are things that can make 
me sad there are things that can make me 
anxious and there's been a particular 
situation or two in my life over the 
last month which have you know really 
got me wound up in KN I found I wasn't 
sleeping well I just you know on and off 
I could feel the knots in my stomach all 
the time due to situations that you know 
I wanted to try to control I wanted to 
try to change and I realized at a 
certain point the the only thing I could 
do in these situations I couldn't change 
the other people I couldn't change the 
way they were behaving the only thing I 
could do was change my own reaction to 
it so I happened to pop on an Instagram 
live a couple of weeks ago and you know 
I love doing Instagram lives and through 
Good Morning America I have had the 
great opportunity to meet some amazing 
people um and Dan Harris is one of the 
people I most admire that I met at GMA 
and if you don't know he's recently left 
GMA but he is the anchor that had a 
public he had kind of a a panic attack 
on ABC on national news and he went on a 
a personal expiration and quest to find 
out what caused this panic attack and 
why and how he could work on himself so 
that it wouldn't happen again so spoiler 
alert Dan took to meditation and he 
started a company called 10% happier 
they have an app I've read his book I've 
read his second book I'm a huge fan I've 
had the opportunity to chat with him 
backstage for 20 minutes about the world 
of singles and so I hadn't seen Dan in a 
while cuz he's left GMA for over a year 
ago so when I do it um he's obviously 
not there so I happened to pop on when 
he was on alive and I can't even 
remember who he was talking to maybe it 
was I think it was Gretchen Rubin that 
Happiness Project woman and he was 
saying you know meditation can really 
help with your own anxiety and feeling 
better about relationships with other 
people and sometimes when we get our 
undies in a bunch about somebody else 
like I was he said we can give them a 
kindness compassion 
meditation and I said and I'm and you 
know I kind of propped up and started 
listening what is a kindness 
compassionate meditation right and you 
know truth be told I love meditation I'm 
not the best at it I'm sort of a 
hyperactive can't sit still for very 
long kind of person but I do see the 
absolute benefits of it and I'm not a 
skeptic I'm working at getting better on 
it but this meditation that Dan went 
through and it was so beautiful that I 
was searching around my office I needed 
a piece of paper and it pen and I wanted 
to write down what he was saying and he 
said I want you to sit quietly and think 
about kind of just close your eyes and 
imagine the person or the situation 
whatever is giving you stress and I want 
you to repeat these four sentences to 
yourself imagine the 
person may you be 
happy may you be 
healthy may you be 
safe and may you live with 
ease and I was like oh my God Dan say it 
again say it again and I had to write it 
down so I'm going to say it for you 
picture a person in your life that's 
giving you stress maybe it's someone you 
haven't heard from in dating maybe it's 
your ex maybe it's your ex's new 
girlfriend or boyfriend or your teenager 
or your neighbor or your sister or a 
teacher or your boss or somebody that 
works for you imagine this person's face 
okay and breathe deeply while you're 
doing this picture the person and give 
them kindness and compassion in your 
mind may you be happy may you be healthy 
may you be safe and may you live with 
ease I'm telling you you guys this has 
changed my world in the last five days I 
called one of my best friends Lisa who's 
struggling with her own things and I 
told her this meditation and in her cute 
way she's like girl hold up I need to 
get myself a pen and a Post-It note and 
I need to write that down and I said 
it's a Buddhist kindness compassion 
medit ation and so she's like okay okay 
okay I'm going to try this and she was 
all riled up about something the next 
day she sent me a text she's like the 
Buddha and that meditation is working I 
told it to another friend today who 
wrote it down and was like wow that is 
beautiful I want you to take this 
kindness compassionate meditation and 
I'm telling you it is so easy and you 
don't have to sit in a corner and you 
don't have to meditate you can do this 
while walking down the street you can do 
this while sitting in your car deep 
breathe so we talked about doing this 
with somebody that you know you don't 
like or is giving you anxiety but I want 
to take a step back I want you to do it 
for yourself say it to yourself may I be 
happy may I be healthy may I be safe and 
may I live with ease when you're 
thinking about may I be happy think 
about the things that make you happy may 
I be happy what should I do to make 
myself happy what can I do to make 
myself healthy what can I do to feel 
safer in my life and to live with ease 
and less suffering do the meditation for 
yourself that kindness compassionate 
meditation to yourself then you can 
extend it to someone that you love I 
could close my eyes and I could picture 
Andy I could picture my mom I could say 
wow these these are people I love my dad 
more than anything may you be happy may 
you be healthy may you be safe may you 
live with ease and in me it creates this 
sense of peace and ease and then take 
that person you don't like or the person 
that is causing you anxiety and do this 
meditation do it several times a day 
steal yourself do it in your core it has 
helped me so much it has helped people 
that I love and I am here to share with 
you the gems that help me to be better 
to live better to live happier to stay 
in that psychotically optimistic mindset 
so I hope this kindness compassionate 
meditation helps you with yourself helps 
you to extend Grace to somebody that you 
love and also helps you to feel better 
about somebody that that you don't like 
or doesn't like you or you have sadness 
towards or anger towards or you feel 
shame around be compassionate to that 
person and extend them that because 
remember holding that hostility inside 
of you remember it's like drinking 
poison and expecting the other person to 
die being kind and compassionate to this 
person in your own mind reduces your own 
cortisol reduces the bad hormones in 
your own system and makes you feel more 
peaceful and lets you live a more joyful 
life I hope this has helped you as much 
as it helps me let me know send us a 
note let me know that this has helped 
you and how it's helped you I would love 
to hear and if you love this give us a 
rating tell us that you love this 
podcast tell us that you love this week 
of minis these reviews mean the world to 
us it would make me so happy to to see 
you write something about this as always 
follow us on Instagram at Smart dating 
Academy and sign up for our newsletter 
Smart dating academy.com to be in the 
know and to have access to us in any way 
you want if you're feeling that you need 
kindness and compassion and you need 
someone in your corner to help you with 
dating to be your confident to be your 
personal trainer for your love life to 
be your dating best friend send us an 
email get into for our one-on-one VIP 
client roster you won't be sorry and I 
will leave you with this may you dear 
listener be happy may you be healthy may 
you be safe and may you live with 
ease 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back to the podcast 
I'm so excited to talk to you about 
dating I know it feels for a lot of you 
that we're hearing that there's kind of 
a lull Peak dating season is now over 
and it's geez what can I do to ramp 
things up for my dating life so what I 
wanted to talk to you today about are 
seven small changes that you can make 
starting today that can potentially lead 
to Big results so let's Dive Right into 
these so change number one that's small 
but that can lead to Big results is 
change your online parameters now what 
does that mean 
think about all of the things that you 
can choose on an online dating site you 
can expand your age range you can expand 
the height range you're open to the ZIP 
code or the radius right you can look at 
people that are different than you it I 
don't know ethnicity race religion 
whatever feels good to you change some 
of your online parameters remember every 
inch in height that you widen your 
parameters you can make sure that you 
will be screening in hundreds if not 
thousands of new candidates and what 
Lindsay Eileen and I want to make sure 
is that you are not screening the love 
of your life out by one inch right you 
know I've heard all of these stories 
like with Nancy who was six feet tall 
who didn't want to date anyone who 
wasn't 6-1 or over she changed her 
height parameters to her height of being 
six feet tall and if you haven't heard 
the podcast go back to Nancy's Love 
Story which was in 2022 and listen for 
that and I'll put a note about that in 
the show notes but when she expanded her 
height Criterion she let in the love of 
her life David Bruce who was truly her 
last first state right so if you're on 
Match right a good test as Lindsay says 
is to see how many people you have in 
your Mutual match right and you can 
create a saved search with really narrow 
parameters and watch how quickly you're 
filtering people out every time we get 
narrower with our search we're screening 
more and more people out so remember 
love is going to come to you in an 
unexpected package so challenge yourself 
to push something outwards meaning being 
more expansive in your online parameters 
and see what that brings you and don't 
get nervous because you can always 
change those things back but play around 
with them 
number two 
small change that can lead to Big result 
my friend Rachel Greenwald talks about a 
game called Three Blind Mice And you can 
play this online which I love what is 
that so if you're online dating pick 
three people you would maybe normally 
skip over as long as they don't have red 
flags right and send them a message what 
this does is it potentially opens you up 
to being open to new people you know who 
you're looking for but if you feel like 
you're too stuck in a rut and you want 
to expand your net you don't know how 
you're seeing the same people 
deliberately pick three people where 
you're like wow I've never gone out with 
someone who's blah blah blah or blah 
blah or someone who doesn't have a 
degree or someone who lives 20 you know 
35 miles from me whatever that is pick 
three people but make sure that they 
don't have any red flags they don't seem 
angry or negative or critical in in 
their profiles and set up a video date 
with them and you're challenged to 
yourself is to find three things that 
you potentially like about this person 
right so play game it with yourself and 
you're not being mean because you never 
know you might really like this person 
that you wouldn't have normally and you 
might want to go on a second date with 
this person so play Three Blind Mice 
pick three people that you never 
normally would and see where it goes 
right love is going to come to you in an 
unexpected package and I'm telling you 
today about little changes you can make 
to your mindset to the things that 
you're doing to bring in that one 
special lid to your pot okay 
now along with that is change number 
three that you can make which is change 
your story change the story that you're 
telling yourself about dating right 
maybe you're telling yourself I hate 
dating maybe you're telling yourself I'm 
not a good dater maybe you're telling 
yourself there's no good people out 
there maybe you're telling yourself I'm 
too damaged I've got too much baggage I 
don't know how to talk about my story 
change the story that you're telling 
yourself dating is fun turn yourself 
into a psychotic Optimist love is out 
there for me it's a when not an if and 
all I have to do is date like hell until 
I find this person right and stories 
that I've seen my clients change some 
people come into us I had a client years 
ago named Sandy and she would always say 
Bella I'm the fourth date wonder and I'd 
say what does that mean she's like I can 
get to the fourth date and then after 
that they always disappear right and so 
I'm like what is that but the story that 
she was telling herself was okay I'm 
good until the fourth date so what do 
you think she was doing on the fourth 
day do you think she was acting like the 
best version of herself which was 
consistent with the last three dates no 
she wasn't because the story she was 
telling herself was well the other 
shoe's gonna drop after this date so she 
was more anxious and more closed down so 
through coaching we worked on that and 
the first time she got her fifth date 
after telling herself this is just a 
story I'm telling myself I am not a four 
day Wonder we were doing such a fun 
happy dance in our office because she 
got to the 15. if the story you're 
telling yourself is I'm a fourth date 
well I'm a four day Wanderer I'm a first 
date wonder I can't get past six months 
whatever it is change the story you're 
telling yourself and if you need some 
help around that enlist us to help you 
coach you through what those stories are 
and where you need help because ladies 
and gentlemen we all have stories that 
hold us back that keep us stuck and keep 
us doing the same things over and over 
again if you need help golly George 
reach out for help it exists and you are 
worth it okay change number four or this 
is an easy one if you're online dating 
okay change the time that you're going 
online if you're always checking the 
sites in the apps at the end of the day 
after you've had a long grueling day at 
work maybe you've been to the gym 
whatever it is and you're looking at the 
sites and the apps with exhausted jaded 
eyes change things up maybe look at it 
over your lunch break maybe when you're 
bright-eyed and bushy-tailed first thing 
in the morning but change up the time 
that you're online because you never 
know what the algorithms are going to 
serve you up at different times as well 
I have no control over the algorithms 
but what I can tell you is looking at 
the sites at different times can 
generate different results and most 
importantly you might see different 
people at those times and also you might 
quote unquote see new people because 
you're in a different more excited 
mindset because you are doing things 
differently so isn't that easy it's so 
fun and simple to do but these are small 
changes that can lead to Big results now 
change number five is don't get married 
to any one dating site or app change up 
your sites or apps every three months 
don't buy a 12-month membership maybe 
pay by the month so you feel like you 
have that flexibility date the sites as 
well haha just kidding you don't want to 
get exclusive with any site too quickly 
don't be on anything for more than a 
year I want you to have a fluid dating 
strategy remember online dating is like 
the world's largest cocktail party okay 
and imagine that and all of the 
different rooms are like different apps 
okay and this is a metaphor that I'm 
drawing so what you want to make sure is 
that you're at the party right so you're 
online dating then what you want to give 
yourself flexibility to do is wander 
room to room and see who's in the other 
rooms and that is what it's like to have 
a very fluid dating app strategy at 
smartdating Academy we have clients on 
all we have clients on 10 to 15 
different sites and apps right and just 
it depends on who you are where you live 
who you're looking for what age you are 
as to what site strategy we're going to 
give you but if you're doing this on 
your own just make sure that you've got 
a fluid strategy and change things up 
okay now change number six this is a 
small one but powerful and mighty if you 
are rolling from work straight to date 
and so many of you are you've got great 
jobs and you go straight from work to 
the date what I want you to do is change 
your appearance change your clothes it's 
that simple have dating outfits right 
ladies maybe for you it's popping your 
Berry lip having a special shade of red 
that cues your brain that you're in 
dating mode but what you want to do is 
have a ritual around how you look during 
dating right go home build in some time 
so that you can wash the stench of work 
off of you change your clothes freshen 
up and ladies and gentlemen this is for 
both of you right even if work is super 
business casual you want to look great 
for an in-person date because it's going 
to make you most importantly feel really 
good and attractive and when you're 
feeling good and attractive guess what 
you seem to the other person you seem 
more attractive so build in some time to 
change your look I had a client again 
some years back named Jill who had these 
gorgeous blue eyes and one of the things 
I made sure for her photo shoot when she 
was starting this process is that she 
had this gorgeous blue wrap dress 
because it really made her eyes pop in 
her photos and so she got so much great 
feedback on the blue dress photos that 
she started to wear blue dresses on 
dates and every time she would come home 
from work she would pick out one of her 
five different blue dresses and she 
would put them on and she found that 
dating became more fun because she knew 
when she put this dress on she was going 
to turn into dating Jill instead of work 
Jill so take these little changes that 
you can make what can you do today guys 
can you bring a sport coat to the office 
a crisp pressed shirt that you're gonna 
wear on your date so that you look like 
you haven't been sitting around in the 
same clothes for 10 hours ladies maybe 
you wear a great dress to work but bring 
some fun kicking heels with you pop your 
lip maybe change your hair right if 
you've had your hair up all day just it 
up and bring it down what can you do to 
make yourself feel better and that 
you've taken the the work day off of you 
and you've transformed into dating mode 
and seven 
the last little change that you can make 
is a big one I want you to change the 
internal clock that you have about when 
you're supposed to meet the lid to your 
pot we work on this a lot at Smart 
dating Academy because you know our 
clients that work with us are working 
with us typically for a one-year 
engagement right and then they get on to 
two and three years but what we're doing 
is helping them to see that just because 
you're engaging us for one year doesn't 
mean the lid to your pot is going to 
come in the air there are many people 
that go on to year two year three year 
four even when you're dating the right 
way right there's certain things that 
the universe or God has in store that I 
don't have control over right but that 
last first date is going to come into 
your inbox I promise but what I want you 
to do is change the internal clock that 
you have on yourself maybe you're 34 
years old and telling yourself my gosh 
my biology clock is ticking and I need 
to find someone right away so that I can 
hunker down get married and have babies 
and if I don't you know I'm wasting my 
child bearing years or maybe you're 
telling yourself oh my gosh I'm 49 years 
old and I've got to date somebody before 
I turn 50 because if not I'm going to be 
washed up whatever that time clock is 
give yourself some Grace ladies and 
gentlemen there is no time clock on love 
this is the number one most important 
decision you're ever going to make in 
your life and that decision requires 
patience positivity and perseverance so 
if you tell yourself I'm giving this 30 
days I'm giving it 90 days whatever it 
is and you're putting all of that 
internal pressure on yourself don't do 
that you are probably going to come from 
a place of fear come from a place of 
anxiety you're gonna dread dating and 
you're not going to have the good 
results that you could so I hope that 
this little mini ish episode has 
inspired you that you can make some of 
these small changes to start to get big 
results and remember just because you 
make a small change today doesn't mean 
you're going to get a big result today 
you've got to have the mindset of dating 
as a marathon it's not a Sprint and my 
small change today could lead to the 
love of my life maybe it's expanding my 
height Criterion maybe it's telling 
myself it doesn't matter how long it's 
going to take I'm a psychotic Optimist 
and love is going to come to me I'm 
going to get rid of my time clock maybe 
you're going to get online tomorrow 
morning at 6 30 a.m versus getting 
online at 10 pm every day whatever it is 
I wish you nothing but love and the best 
of luck making these changes and if one 
of these changes worked reach out to us 
DM us follow us on Instagram at 
smartdatingacademy sign up for our new 
newsletter at 
smartdatingacademy.com I we would love 
to have you in our email database where 
you'll learn about things first and of 
course if you need help reach out to 
schedule a consultation it'll be the 
best money that you've ever spent with 
that smart daters I wish you love beauty 
and I cannot wait to talk to you again 
next week 


I know it feels for a lot of you that 
we're hearing that there's kind of a 
lull Peak dating season is now over what 
can I do to ramp things up for my dating 
life so what I wanted to talk to you 
today about are seven small changes that 
you can make starting today that can 
potentially lead to Big results so you 
can make some of these small changes to 
start to get big results and remember 
just because you make a small change 
today doesn't mean you're going to get a 
big result today you've got to have the 
mindset of dating as a marathon it's not 
a Sprint and my small change today could 
lead to the love of my life 
[Music] 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
welcome back smart daters I'm so excited 
to be talking to you today about finding 
love this summer so many of you have 
reached out to us in listening to the 
prior stories that we've been telling 
the story about Sylvia foti the Nazi's 
granddaughter who found love online 
while working with us about Nancy Hollow 
who got married to David Bruce last 
September about Rachel Graham who found 
love after betrayal and so many of you 
are messaging uh saying Bella Lindsay 
Eileen when is it my turn to find love 
am I going to find the lid to my pot and 
the answer is a resounding yes yes and 
yes and so today I'm going to talk to 
you about the seven things that you can 
do for yourself this summer to find 
yourself some summer love I don't know 
if I'm dating myself here but if you 
guys remember the movie Grease little 
Danny a little Sandy 
[Music] 
summer loving you can find yourself some 
summer love this Summer Okay so let's 
dive right into it today I've got so 
much to say on this topic that I thought 
I'm just going to talk to you myself I 
don't need a guess this is my area of 
expertise and this is what we do we help 
people to find the lids to their pots so 
my dear friend Summer Love is coming to 
you I want you to first of all inhale 
exhale count to three and smile and know 
the fact that you were listening to this 
episode you were listening to your Fairy 
Godmother who has the magic wand right 
here with her is telling you that you 
are going to find love this summer so 
thing number one that you're gonna need 
to do is you're gonna need an attitude 
adjustment you're gonna need a mindset 
shift and guess what that is I want you 
to be what I call psychotically 
optimistic about your love life and if 
you're new to me you might be going 
psychotically optimistic what on Earth 
is that Bella how can you use the word 
psychotic and optimistic in the same 
sentence well it's really easy right if 
you're psychotic it means you've sort of 
lost touch with reality right you're 
kind of crazy yeah and when you're 
psychotically optimistic it means you 
are optimistic not only on the days 
where everything is going well for you 
but even when you've had the bumps in 
the road even when you thought you had a 
first great date and then the person 
ghosted even after you've been dating 
somebody for three months and they said 
you know what I just don't think I'm in 
for this for a long-term commitment even 
if you've lost the love of your life to 
unfortunate circumstances I'm here to 
tell you that I want I am the chief 
psychotic Optimist at Smart dating 
Academy and I have many psychotic 
optimists on my team that work with me 
Lindsay Eileen Anissa Michelle you guys 
know all of our people but I want you 
most importantly to become psychotically 
optimistic about your own love life now 
how do you do that well first of all 
listen to what I'm telling you I know 
beyond the shadow of a doubt I don't 
care who you are I don't care where you 
are when you're listening to this I 
don't care how old you are I don't care 
what your gender is I don't care about 
any of that but what I am telling you 
from the tiniest little cell in my 
teeniest little pinky toe all the way up 
to my thick head of black hair is love 
is going to come to you okay I want you 
to say to yourself right now whether 
you're in public or whether you're in 
your car or what maybe you're at work 
listening to this love will come to me 
it's a one it's not an if because Bella 
said so okay I know I have seen 
thousands I have helped thousands and 
thousands of you over the last 13 years 
since I've started this company and way 
before that when I was doing this as a 
hobby find love okay and I know that 
love exists be for you beyond the shadow 
of a doubt so I want you to tell 
yourself okay love exists for me love 
exists for every single person that 
wants it why because we are love right 
we love ourselves number one we have all 
the love that we already need right we 
get love from family we get love from 
our friends we get love from ourselves 
like I talked about in last week's 
episode with Arielle Ford we have plenty 
of Love around us okay and so now we're 
looking for the Romantic led to our pot 
so you know that he or she is out there 
for you and I want you as part of this 
yes to change your attitude about dating 
this summer I know so many of you are 
you know veteran daters and you've been 
out there maybe for months for years for 
decades for some of you and you're kind 
of tired of the drill and you're telling 
yourself yeah you know 
I have to date I don't want to do this 
but I have to get online I want you to 
change your tune and I want you to 
change the word have to get I get to 
date and you know why dating is a 
privilege I get to date I get to meet 
new people I get to hear their stories I 
get to possibly make a new connection I 
get to meet a new friend I need you to 
steal yourself with this positivity okay 
this is all part of being psychotically 
optimistic I get to date the people that 
do best at our process in Smart dating 
Academy are the people that literally 
are like dating is going to be fun and 
I'm going to get to meet all these 
people and I'm going to get to hear 
these interesting stories they're not 
saying I'm gonna have to meet all these 
degenerate losers gonna have to sit 
through these dates I'm gonna have to 
sit through all of the people that are 
left over out there because there's 
nobody good left out there I swear to 
you no those aren't the people that are 
attracting the good and the people that 
are attracting the good believe the good 
they become the good they are enjoyable 
to be around they're like a chandelier 
that light up the room and you my friend 
for listening to this I want you to 
smile and I want you to become that 
chandelier that beautiful light fixture 
that lights up a room and on the side 
note for those of you that know me I 
have eight chandeliers on the first 
floor in my little house in Chicago not 
because it's Grand not because it's 
amazing it's a cute little coach house 
but I'll tell you what I've got eight 
chandeliers to light up my house which 
lights up my life which lights up my 
eyeballs I love chandeliers so be the 
chandelier become that psychotically 
optimistic person okay and you get to 
date it is a privilege to do this not 
everybody gets to date there are 
cultures that don't allow people to date 
you get to make those choices you get to 
be around people okay so now thing 
number two on the list of seven things 
you need to do to find summer love is I 
want you to fix your picker and do a 
deep dive into yourself okay 
now what does that mean maybe when 
you're in the dating world 
something's been handed to you right 
maybe you've been through a terrible 
breakup heartbreak you lost the love of 
your life to a premature illness and if 
so I'm sending you huge hugs maybe 
you've never really been in love before 
and you don't know what love is and 
you've had a series of relationships but 
you just you don't know whatever it is 
you guys I want you to sit down and do a 
tune-up of your relationship picker I 
call it fix your picker your people 
picker your relationship picker if you 
have if you are saying to yourself I am 
always attracting the wrong people 
newsflash you're not attracting the 
wrong people you're accepting the wrong 
people and if that's the case Okay 
whether you've been doing this for a 
month or a year or a decade or your 
entire life I'm here to tell you 
something I'm here to say to you with 
great love and great psychotic optimism 
about fixing your picker it's not your 
fault okay there's our Pickers are 
broken because we're wired to choose 
things that aren't important to 
long-term relationships biologically 
we're chosen to like we choose Partners 
from our reptilian limbic brains we 
choose partners that would have been 
great for us 200 000 years ago back in 
the cave days where we may have lived 
until we were 18 19 or at a maximum 30 
years old so we're still choosing 
partners for more superficial traits 
Hollywood and social media also messages 
us the wrong way we're supposed to feel 
instant chemistry love at first sight be 
swept off our feet love is a feeling 
last week with RL Ford I talked to you 
about love is not a feeling it's a 
behavior it's a choice it's a decision 
right but we're messaged the wrong 
things and so if your picker is broken 
take stock of that look at yourself and 
say what am I doing that is playing into 
this maybe you've been in relationships 
with narcissists or people that are 
emotionally avoidant your entire life 
and even though you think you're doing 
things differently you really aren't 
it's like same dude or same woman 
different face year over year decade 
over decade it's time to take steps to 
fix your picker and let me tell you what 
if you feel like this is you I'll tell 
you what this isn't a problem that 
normally fixes itself you can't read a 
book and fix your picker get a good 
therapist get a good Village get a good 
coach get the best coach that's us at 
Smart dating Academy our superpower is 
helping people to fix their Pickers but 
that's really where the magic is so do a 
little Deep dive into yourself and say 
is my picker broken for most of you to 
some way shape or form like I said I've 
been doing this professionally for 13 
years most of our Pickers are broken 
I'll tell you what my picker was really 
really broken before I met Andy and for 
those of you that have been following us 
on social media last week on May 17th 
Andy and I celebrated our 25th wedding 
anniversary amazing right I had some big 
picker problems before I wanted the 
butterflies I wanted the high highs and 
the low lows and the edgy feeling and 
all the excitement and when I realized I 
wasn't dating for long-term love and I 
fixed my picker I found him and we've 
been together pretty much it seems like 
our entire lives at this point so I want 
you to fix your picker and I want you to 
commit to yourself to doing something to 
fix your picker okay whatever that is 
call your therapist read the book get 
the coach schedule a session with me 
whatever it is commit to fixing your 
picker this summer because it's so so so 
so crucial remember the definition of 
insanity is doing the same thing over 
and over again month over month year 
over year decade over decade and 
expecting a different result okay so now 
you've done thing number one you're 
getting psychotically optimistic number 
two you're gonna do that fix your picker 
deep dive in into yourself number three 
I want you to think about your dating 
life as something this Summer that 
you're going to do differently I want 
you to think about creating a dating 
funnel for yourself and you might ask 
yourself What on earth does that mean if 
you're new to us well so many of us are 
again we're wired to do the wrong things 
in dating full stop and we want a one 
and done date somebody we have one good 
date with somebody two good dates with 
somebody we want to shut off our apps 
and just date that one until it goes up 
or until it goes down and then we lick 
our Paws we kind of recover grieve and 
we get back up there a year later two 
years later whatever that is I want you 
to stop that Madness and I want you to 
create a dating funnel why because 
having a funnel means you have options 
okay think about the way the Market's 
crazy and volatile right now would you 
take everything in the market and put it 
all into one stock that your neighbor 
said was gonna go bananas no of course 
you wouldn't do that you're a smart 
person you're not not going to take your 
hard-earned money and put it all into 
one thing you're going to do the smart 
thing which was what we call you know 
I'm a former Finance person that's my 
college education you're going to 
diversify your portfolio right you're 
going to have some money in stocks 
you're going to have some money in cash 
you're gonna have some money and bonds 
you're going to have you know you're 
going to have some money in Bitcoin I 
don't know whatever it is your jam is 
but in the dating world I want you to 
think about yourself in the same way I 
want you to have a lot of different 
options think of your dating life like a 
horse race in order to make it a race 
you got to have many different horses so 
you're going to slow things down you're 
going to create a funnel where you've 
got a bunch of different people that 
you're dating and I'm not talking about 
sleeping with shacking up with making 
out with whatever your thing is so that 
you feel disingenuous no I want you to 
date and get to know a bunch of people 
why because you get to date you get to 
do this your way you've got the steering 
wheel of your dating life okay and you 
don't have to tell people that you have 
a dating funnel you do you boo okay but 
have yourself a dating funnel no more 
one and done dating so now thing number 
four that you need to do this summer to 
get that funnel is dun dun dun you need 
to start online dating the right way and 
if you guys don't know how to online 
date the right way and if you think 
online dating is boring horrible it 
sucks whatever it is you're probably not 
doing it the right way you're certainly 
not doing it with us at Smart dating 
Academy where we do the best photos we 
give you my profile book that I wrote 
during covert that makes you write the 
best profiles for sites like match for 
sites like Bumble and it's like boom 
boom boom answer a question outspit's a 
perfect profile so if you haven't done 
that and you want to do it yourself 
great keep doing it but I need you to do 
it the right way okay so go to my 
website go to smarttatingacademy.com and 
look at what good photos look like I am 
pumping these photos out there for 
clients all over the nation all over the 
world that come to Chicago to work with 
us in our photo studio where we have 
amazing photos that are not photoshopped 
they are not the souped up glammed up 
versions of you but they look pretty 
freaking good you've got to have great 
headshots and great body shots they've 
got to be high resolution they have to 
be no more than one year old you've got 
to look the part you've got to feel the 
part you've got to look happy get rid of 
your sunglasses what most of you are 
doing is picking the best photos that 
exist in your phone which I'm telling 
you they're not good let me just I'm 
going to give you the Straight Dope I do 
this every single day I've been doing 
this for 13 years people come to me on a 
daily basis I do one hour consultations 
looking at their profiles they're like 
Bella look at my photos don't you think 
these are awesome usually they're not 
awesome okay they're the best that you 
have but that doesn't mean they're 
awesome doing something awesomely means 
investing in yourself having somebody 
take photos of you okay so you've got to 
have six awesome photos in six different 
looks right where you're not wearing 
your sunglasses where there's no other 
people in the photos with you where you 
look great and you look just like the 
version of yourself that's going to show 
up to the date not the glammed up 20 
pounds ago 20 years ago version of you 
that has different color hair different 
length hair don't do that that is the 
ultimate Act of self-sabotage right and 
I want you to pick one or two great 
sites or apps and I know you're probably 
thinking well I've tried this I've tried 
that Bella what are the great sites or 
apps well I don't know you because I 
haven't worked with you yet I don't 
think I know you yet directly you've got 
to pick a great site or two that are 
good for you in your age bracket in the 
city that you live in based on who 
you're looking for and then you need to 
navigate the site or those two apps on a 
daily basis okay and you've got to write 
great text in your profile if you don't 
know how to do that again it's not your 
fault we're not taught how to do this 
that's what we're here for we will send 
you our book to do that if you're our 
client if you take our online dating 
love lab or you work with us one-on-one 
and if not the best tips I can give you 
is be positive be specific show don't 
tell in your profile don't make it 
negative don't say please do not contact 
me if make it interesting full of 
interesting little tidbits about 
yourself that give the person who's 
reading your profile something 
interesting to start a conversation with 
you about okay so that was Point number 
four the fourth thing that you need to 
do this summer now thing number five is 
then once you get online dating the 
right way you need to have what I call a 
DDR a daily dating routine now what is 
that really simple the more you put into 
this the more you're going to get out of 
this okay so I don't want this to feel 
like a job and if you feel like it is a 
second job you're not doing this the 
right way okay put some boundaries 
around it turn off the notifications on 
the sites or the apps maybe look at it 
for 15 minutes in the morning as you're 
having your coffee or your green tea or 
your smoothie or your water or your 
water with apple cider vinegar vinegar 
whatever it is you drink in the morning 
and look at it for 15 minutes have some 
goals what is it you want to accomplish 
in those 15 minutes because a goal it's 
not acceptable to go oh I didn't see 
anybody in 15 minutes ew I'm gonna put 
this away no you have to have goals 
maybe it's I'm going to message three 
people this morning and then do the same 
thing in the evening and if you help you 
can put 30 minutes into it in the 
morning 30 minutes in the evening don't 
tell me you can't you are awake 16 hours 
a day even if you're working a full-time 
job you might be working 8 to 10 hours 
that leads you another eight to ten out 
that leaves you another oof my math that 
leaves you could be another eight hours 
of waking time could be another six 
hours of waking time you have plenty of 
time to spend 30 to 60 Minutes on this 
okay so have your DDR your daily dating 
routine 
um let's see what else number six 
so many of you 
want to just head straight to the dates 
you see someone good they're like do you 
want to grab a glass of wine do you want 
to grab dinner and you're like yes you 
shoot out of the gate and then you're 
like oh my God that person had no teeth 
or that person sound of nothing like 
they I thought they would or they look 
nothing like they thought they would 
guess what you all 
there is something called the video 
dates so thing number six is do not not 
not not not ever ever ever skip a video 
date every site and every app has video 
built into it there is zero reason for 
you not to do this okay and why do I say 
do video dates rather than meeting 
someone out I know all the things that 
you're going to tell me right now well 
you know there's just a certain 
chemistry when you in person yeah I get 
that you can't hug someone on us on Zoom 
for example but what you can do is take 
a 2d person that's six photos and 200 
words from their profile even from a 
phone call all you can tell is 
somebody's voice but when you wind that 
all together with video you get a real 
3D image of what this person looks like 
and sounds like in real life and you can 
also see what does their background look 
like have they invested time in looking 
good for the date have they invested 
time and looking good does their 
background look good is their camera 
position the right way do they know how 
to navigate the camera right you can 
tell so much more about somebody why 
while doing a video day covet was awful 
for a thousand reasons but one of the 
Silver Linings that came out of it was 
all of the major dating companies 
building video into their sites and apps 
and just because we might be becoming 
more endemic with Comet covid and you 
might feel really comfortable meeting 
people out do not skip the videos date I 
will tell you for my one-on-one Boutique 
clients that are working with us at 
Smart dating Academy most of the dates 
they go on that are disappointing dates 
are dates where they've skipped the 
video so I'm just telling you don't ever 
skip the video okay and now number seven 
let's say you've done the video dates 
you've done all the things you're 
psychotically optimistic you've fixed 
your pick or you're doing a deep dive 
into yourself maybe you're working with 
me now you've got a dating funnel set up 
you've got great photos you've got great 
text in your profile you know one to two 
apps you're working on you've got your 
daily dating routine you're not skipping 
video dates now it's time to get to 
Point number seven meeting for the real 
dates and now that it's summer right 
it's going to be warm everywhere 
including my beloved but freezing gray 
Windy City Chicago you can do things 
outside so Point number seven plan fun 
dates and here's a little tip plan dates 
that number one are active and where you 
can be side by side why why do I say 
that well when you're active okay that 
means you can be walking you can be 
biking you can be going to an amusement 
park you can go to a carnival you can go 
to an art fair whatever it is you're 
doing go to a street festival you're 
side by side and many research studies 
show that when we're side by side 
instead of facing each other eyeball to 
eyeball we tend to disclose more 
intimate interesting information about 
ourselves so if you're sick of boring 
schmoring getting to know you 
conversations try dates where you're 
walking okay you're building adrenaline 
you're active you're getting excited 
adrenaline builds attraction and you're 
side by side so you can actually 
actually have these dates where you're 
disclosing information that's more 
interesting think about sitting on an 
airplane okay most of you that are 
listening have probably been on a plane 
at least once in your life if not a 
thousand times like me and but you've 
sat next to a stranger that by the end 
of the flight feels like one of your 
best friends because you've had this 
long incredibly stimulating conversation 
with this person and you know why it's 
because we're sitting next to each other 
we're not looking at the stranger 
eyeball the eyeball and we tend to 
elicit more interesting tidbits out of 
them because they feel more comfortable 
because they're not looking right at us 
and vice versa right if you're a parent 
and you're thinking about when do you 
get the best information from your kids 
maybe while you're driving them to 
soccer practice or lacrosse practice or 
driving them to school right you're 
sitting side by side so plan fun dates 
after you've done the video that you can 
be active and you can be next to each 
other go for walks do the things so I 
really hope that you have taken notes on 
these seven things that you can do and 
let me repeat them for you one last time 
number one change your mindset and get 
psychotically optimistic number two fix 
your damn picker number three have a 
horse you need a dating life that is a 
horse race and have a dating funnel to 
do that number four start online dating 
the right way and if you're not doing it 
the right way you're not having success 
for God's sakes send me a message 
contact us our smartdatingacademy.com 
Point number five have a daily dating 
routine do something every single day to 
further your dating life because the 
love of your life is not going to be 
dropped into your lap by the stork and 
number six don't ever ever ever ever 
ever skip video dates and number seven 
plan fun dates that are active and side 
by side if you've enjoyed this episode 
share it rate it review it if you need 
more help sign up for our free 
newsletter at smartdatingacademy.com 
fill out any contact form you'll be 
entered into our database I promise you 
we will do good things for you follow me 
on Instagram I often go live I've got 
hours and hours and hours of additional 
Instagram live on igtv footage follow 
Smart dating Academy and if you need a 
consultation invest in yourself invest 
in this process it is your time to do 
this 
signing off with big love to you finding 
love this summer and your Fairy 
Godmother and your fairy Godmother's 
team loves you incredibly and dearly 
know that you're loved and I've waved my 
magic wand for you and love is coming to 
you it's a when not an if 
see you next week 


if you kind of heard about that one girl 
who threw herself a divorce party that I 
believe was in Vegas and she happened to 
be at an adult concert and Adele 
happened to come out talk to her and her 
friends give her a hug when she found 
out that she was celebrating her divorce 
this ladies and gentlemen is Rebecca 
fine glass it is such a pleasure to be 
here with you Bella 2020. yeah your 
father unexpectedly passes your best 
friend and so you had been married for a 
few years at this point you pulled the 
plug on that so now to Flash Forward all 
that seismic changed in 2022 you're like 
eff it I gotta go grief a bigger 
question is well how do you grieve a 
divorce what does that even feel like 
how does that look for me it looked a 
variety of different ways one of them 
was the divorce party you mentioned 
um but it wasn't always happy looking 
grief is a really complicated set of 
emotions 


so the word narcissist do we know what 
it means 
a lot of times what we mean 
is that this person that i am 
referring to as a narcissist may be kind 
of an a-hole you know what i mean one of 
the first things that we tell our 
clients to watch out for in the dating 
world is typically they can be extremely 
charming they can be well dressed 
charismatic 
life of the party 
okay and who doesn't want to be around 
that person they're like the chandelier 
that lights up the room or lights up the 
party but now that you know just because 
somebody's really charming and 
charismatic a narcissist wants to be the 
center of all attention and they want 
the conversation to focus on one person 
me me me me me me me me 
right that was lovely and a little 
attitude sorry about that 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm bellagande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart taters welcome back to one of your 
favorite episodes today is the love 
story of all love stories you guys you 
are going to want to eat this girl up in 
the same way Eileen and I do because 
she's just precious and beautiful and 
I'm so delighted to introduce my 
former client present friend current 
client because we're always going to be 
in each other's lives from Florida is so 
awesome to have you thank you for being 
here 
thank you thank you for having me thank 
you so much oh my gosh this is such an 
honor to have you here to tell your love 
story so you guys a quick I'm gonna 
start out in kind of a a funny way 
because her story is so cute and it made 
me want to go back and research the very 
first moment that she reached out to us 
so I have in front of me the form that 
she filled out okay this is he's 
cracking up Monday May 3rd 2021 at 5 51 
PM we have very good notes 
um Sadaf says I'm 32. she's from Florida 
the subject wait for it I want to find 
love 
if you could see her face she just took 
a sip of water 
okay and our form says send us your 
question or what you're interested in 
I am a hopeless romantic I've been 
dating for a while but no luck we either 
break up or I just get tired I recently 
met a guy who I thought was Mr Right but 
he ghosted me and broke my heart I need 
someone to tell me what am I doing wrong 
why do I attract the wrong guys can you 
help I am ready to find love please help 
and it said how did you hear about us 
and it said YouTube so start off what 
were you watching on YouTube tell us I 
was watching Steve Harvey you were 
watching my you were watching Steve the 
comedian 
is like I need a good laugh 
he's so funny I was like you need a good 
laughing oh Bella got me I'm like wait 
her lasted I love never got any so I'm 
just like oh wait let me I have to click 
on this and just hear about it and I was 
like I love her and instead of just like 
research that I saw I think all your 
videos well if 
I might be lying on most of them like 
most of you that I could find that day 
there's a lot yeah there's a lot so this 
is like sad thing I watched it I'll 
watch the Ted Talk and everything I was 
like oh my God I love her I need her I'm 
like please spell it just help me 
oh my gosh so I think we connected the 
same day or very shortly so why don't 
you tell us at the stage kind of tell us 
about growing up and how you got to May 
3rd 2021 kind of give us your back story 
because it's very relatable sure well I 
mean just a little bit about me you know 
I was uh I was born in Iran and I moved 
uh with my family here when I was 15. so 
it was a very hard transition but you 
know that's got through that and it was 
it really you know I grew up in like 
another strict family there were my 
family were really like open loving just 
grew up like watching my parents just so 
like little love and this is the cutest 
relationship ever I'm like I wanna love 
like that I would tell my mom at the 
time I was like Hey I want to marry 
someone just like that and my mom would 
like make fun of me like now like in a 
bad way we just she was just like well 
it was just only one and I took him 
sorry 
my mom I was like God Mom God we need to 
recreate him 
and I was like I just because I just had 
such a good relationship with him you 
know his daddy's girl and 
so I wanted to be um just the final love 
like that respectful 
loving always just I never heard my 
parents argue like yell at each other 
scream at each other and I would just 
see my fans in relationships I'm like oh 
wow like people that this happened so I 
just I always look for that and you know 
when it came to dating 
um I thought I was going to 
and um 
and it just wasn't easy from the 
beginning it wasn't easy it was I would 
just 
I don't know I just attracted guys that 
were just not ready to settle down one 
is why not stand not that I was into 
that but it was kind of like it was just 
so obvious I had to like move on and 
then date someone else and then talk to 
someone else and just like 
I'm like I'm tired it's just and I love 
like well you know kind of living in 
Jacksonville 
it's there's not a lot of options it's a 
big town but it's not a lot of options 
it's just you go out and you see you see 
the same people over and over and over 
again so it's just could be exhausting 
right and you worked in the medical 
field back then yeah 
so yeah and I still I'm in nursing 
school right now because I decided to go 
back and it's been it's difficult oh 
yeah it is yeah 
well that's it 
so you you know I'm remembering and just 
kind of looking back at notes you said 
now at the point you emailed us you were 
32 and you said I always thought I would 
get married by the age of 25 and have my 
first child at 27. so now you're five to 
seven years beyond that at this point 
and now what was what was your perfect 
guy back in the day like who were you 
looking for like what was your checklist 
oh well he had to be for my country so 
that and also he had to be tall very you 
know muscular big and just like this 
cool dude and just showing off my feet 
and taking all through all these like 
vacations and all these places and that 
was the perfect guy to me that's like a 
Bollywood film yeah 
right exactly we're gonna go dance 
behind trees in the rain like a 
Bollywood so and so so you okay so now 
you're dating right you're looking for 
this tall muscular you know Persian hot 
sweep you off your feet kind of guy who 
were you who were you attracting who 
were you dating them 
I was I was attracting them but they 
were all narcissists oh 
oh narcissist is just so like I'm just 
like so perfect I'm this perfect guy you 
have to like listen to what I say we're 
controlling very uh manipulative you 
know like and I'm like wow this is not 
what I was looking for okay maybe just 
day outside of my race you know 
so I did that 
same thing it doesn't matter where 
they're from right narcissist is a 
narcissist amen sister 
foreign 
nothing it's just 
we're all the same and I was uh dating 
people I don't know why I attracted guys 
that were just not ready to settle down 
it wasn't I couldn't just 
it was just not ready to settle down and 
it was you know you you just so perfect 
and if you wanted someone to settle down 
with it would have been you I'm like 
well 
just 
see you like me and 
but oh they weren't ready or 
controlling manipulative like 
just not wanting something that I want 
did not want just we just wouldn't know 
we're not on the same way with you know 
like very 
and they started off great right and it 
wasn't unset month and I'm just they're 
just like yeah you know this could be 
casual like when like when I remember I 
first meeting I was just like telling 
you about this guy that he was just all 
like sewing to me take me to this most 
expensive restaurant do all these 
amazing things for me but then he was 
just like you know I'm really not 
ready to settle down I just want 
something casual I'm like oh yeah no I'm 
not like I'm 31 I don't want that's I 
would that that's something a 20 year 
old would do I'm not and I'm not ready 
for that like I don't want that I'm just 
and I was thinking like a guy who just 
treats you that way 
would be different but he he wasn't he 
was just like all of them they weren't 
just I dated someone who was who was a 
broker nothing just broke 
no no other people will like like 
someone who would though take me to just 
like you know a casual whatever 
restaurants 
or someone who take me to the most 
expensive places and 
the same didn't matter it was the same 
no it just doesn't matter it doesn't 
matter how they treat you what kind of 
car to pick you up in or what 
conversation they have it's just they're 
all just 
narcissists and 
I don't know I just I I would tell my 
friends I was like I don't know what is 
it about me that I just attract those 
people 
why why can I attract someone who's 
going to love me who is going to just 
be just loving but you know I did not 
realize until I started working with you 
guys that's all what I was looking for 
you know those guys who were like loving 
and all this that this good qualities 
those high quality men and 
I was not paying attention to them 
and that's a big shift you know for you 
dear listener is when you're saying I 
keep attracting the wrong person the 
change the reframe I want you to take in 
this is not I'm attracting the wrong 
people I am picking and accepting the 
wrong people right right we're always 
looking on the other side of the street 
oh well he's a narcissist he's doing 
this he's doing that but if I look at my 
side of the street my lawn it's like 
well I'm picking up 
I'm saying yes to them so hold on what 
is it and so and so that day so you had 
your last narcissist and now you're 31 
bad relationship you're watching Steve 
you go down a rabbit trail of watching 
my videos you call me and we decide 
you're like I'm ready to invest in 
myself let's do this yeah I said I'm 
just like I need someone to tell me what 
I'm doing wrong I need 
because I would I listened to your 
videos a lot and I was like yeah what 
she's saying makes sense and I need to 
do something differently and I don't 
know how to change that about myself and 
I need someone to check me like hey no 
this isn't right you're going back to 
your old ways so yeah so that's how 
that's what we're here 
my God and so so now this I talked to 
set up and like absolutely let's do this 
we signed up she's like this is a big 
leap for me this is investment but I'm 
ready to do this great so the next thing 
we do is we I think we did your photo 
shoot first or your jump start first 
my video life your photo shoot right 
photo shoot first yeah I go to Chicago 
and you guys you guys I have to tell you 
so I don't know who I'm seeing right she 
was like oh don't worry I'll be fine 
with my clothes I'm good we didn't know 
anything because we're like send us your 
clothes send us photos we didn't get 
anything I'm like okay I think this will 
be okay I walk into the studio this 
scrap dead gorgeous girl Michelle and 
Anissa are like uh we have a Victoria's 
Secret model in the studio 
stunning beautiful like t-shirt jean 
shorts cute little rompers like 
absolutely the most stunning person and 
what was so beautiful about you number 
one you don't even realize how stunning 
you are on the outside but your inner 
beauty and your fun and you bring what's 
so beautiful about you is you didn't 
bring 
anxiety or negativity to the process you 
came in and you were like this is 
amazing I'm here look at the camera big 
smiles walking down the street posing 
pop my lip do it all and this mindset 
that you came in with was infectious you 
had fun we had fun and I could see with 
you I don't think this is going to take 
that long but however what do I know I 
predict things sometimes they come true 
a lot of times I might say it'll happen 
for you in five weeks and it takes five 
years I don't have any predictability as 
to how long this is taking and if you're 
out there and you've been dating for 
three four five years it's okay right at 
a certain point the universe is going to 
say knock knock he's here the lid to 
your pot has arrived I can't predict 
that that's up to God in the universe 
but here this beautiful girl walks in we 
get these amazing pictures and by the 
time you're listening to this we're 
gonna have this gorgeous page on our 
site and you're gonna see I'm not 
exaggerating by these photos okay so 
um and so then the biggest transition 
came when you did your three-hour 
meeting 
yeah with Eileen right and what did you 
find out about your checklist that day 
I found out I 
I I'm really not 
letting because I think I did tell you 
about this that I'm not letting I'm not 
looking for 
those elevated people that you always 
talk about I'm not looking for those 
people 
and those are the people who make me 
happy that's because you know and I 
found out 
they are not getting to know the guys 
that I was going out on date with 
previously not taking time to get to 
know the real me 
right and that's what was different from 
with my you know my current fiance 
because he took the time to get to know 
me when it just that was and 
I did I would just pay attention of 
every little thing I'm not saying I'm 
picky because I mean I am but I don't 
know but I would just every little thing 
because I would just even like looking 
at his pictures online it was a picture 
of him and his dog who I love was just 
sitting right there 
guys with dogs and he had pit bulls I 
love pit bulls and he had a pitbull I 
didn't was like you should thank your 
dog because it was one of the reasons 
and he's very adventurous I never paid 
attention to that before that these are 
the things that will make me happy guys 
who are adventurous guys who will want 
to travel with me with me not just by 
themselves like oh hell we'll see you in 
a week we'll see you in two weeks we'll 
see you in a couple of days or I'll just 
hit you up when I come back and 
I didn't realize that I need someone who 
is going to support me 
to be there for me 
to just really make me feel comfortable 
in a way to 
um show him the size of me that 
I don't show a lot of people right right 
you know like he was just truly 
ask questions even like 
I feel like I because I dated a guy 
before him for four years and I don't 
even think he knows what's who's my 
favorite singer or what kind of music I 
like he does like just the basics that's 
the basics he knew nothing so hold on 
let's back up December sorry December 
2021 okay now we've been dating for 
months 
you're on it wasn't match it was match 
yes I mean I was on Bumble and but it 
wasn't really but I like match so much 
better like it was but because I could 
see a lot more like more just they would 
write about themselves like a read and 
just kind of you know because I was like 
oh okay I like this that's right and you 
you used our profile book and rewrote 
your profile 
amazing so good so cute and so now it's 
December 2021 you reach out to this man 
named James 
oh yeah I messaged him did you guys hear 
that did you guys hear that he didn't 
message her she proactively messaged him 
so often if a guy if I have to master 
them they don't like me as much I'm like 
no no no no okay tell us 
would be comfortable enough for like oh 
yeah okay I think I'll like this Matt 
ladies messaged him if you see something 
you like go after it go get it oh she's 
going to become a dating coach now be 
careful look at her here she is give us 
preach girl tell us what to do okay so 
you you messaged him and then what 
happened 
I was just like yeah I talked to few men 
and I will just a message back and forth 
um 
it's funny first my uh profile I was 
telling Eileen I'm like Eileen this is 
sad 
no one's messaging me and then she said 
let me let me look at this she's like 
you met your profile is hidden 
because I did it I'm just not the most 
text Daddy person 
I love it 
okay we're just talking and then I was 
like Eileen I'm really not feeling it 
it's just that feeling inside of you 
that you're just like oh yeah I really 
really want to know more about this 
person 
and um I was like and she's like well 
let's just look you know to see if you 
because you know part of the process is 
you also you know this amount of time 
that you spend and if she helped me to 
like look at some of the profiles and I 
saw this with the first picture his 
profile was him 
um smiling and I was like he has the 
most adorable smile like and I clicked 
on it right away and I started looking 
at his pictures a picture of him 
traveling picture of him with his dog I 
was like wow I just I'm like and I 
imagine imagine like first thing 
and I hear your plot and this is history 
oh my gosh what was the what was your 
first date like and how and tell us 
about that 
yeah see like uh so we talked on the 
phone I said hey I want to have a 
conversation on the phone and just 
because I wanted to see if you can keep 
a conversation going and if you did talk 
you can ask people kind of fool I'd like 
I said I like Italian food and then he 
picked this Italian restaurant 
and set a time we went and um 
it just the conversation was just so 
natural it kept talking the whole it was 
no awkward silence and he asked me all 
this he would just truly wanted to know 
me and um some of the questions he would 
ask me like whoa wait I have to think 
about this like what's your favorite 
sport 
what's your favorite this what's your 
favorite bat what do you like and it 
didn't feel like an interrogation if you 
feel like an interview it was just very 
natural yeah 
like he wants to just to know me like he 
genuinely 
is curious about me and it was just a 
breath of fresh air 
and is he American or where did he come 
from oh well he was born in England 
yeah I know I'm British man are amazing 
but he moved here when he was seven 
years old so he's been in America for a 
really long time he's 36 now 
yeah so he's been here 
um yeah it's just I was like wow he's a 
gentle man and I was it was I was 
waiting until so we were there for a 
while like it was the same 90 minutes 
but I think I learned I broke the rule 
I've been over 90 minutes you were on 
your first date for over 90 minutes 
you're talking and talking and then we 
left and I was like please do not ask me 
to go home with you I was just like 
praying I just so sad that's such a 
simple thing we have to just pray for 
that and he didn't just say goodbye and 
I'll talk to you later and you got in 
his car and drove off I was like oh 
thank God 
it wasn't this narcissistic hookup 
artist like hey baby you want to come 
hang out no he was like okay 
talk to you later and you were like this 
is kind of amazing then what happened 
when did you hear from me 
that night he messaged me he thanked me 
you know where to date and he said he 
had a good time and he'd love to 
um you know hang out again and we did 
and on the second day even another 
restaurant we had sushi 
and then our third day was New Year's 
Eve so I'm this is a brand new guy that 
I just met and I'm meeting like 15 of 
his friends oh my God no pressure no 
pressure at all no it's you know 
whatever and like he asked me like do 
you want to hang out with me and me you 
want to be my New Year's Day I'm like 
sure yeah why not 
so his friends they were so precious 
they're so amazing it was like people 
around him 
it's just I feel like he tracks that 
kind of people wow I have not met a 
friend of his that is just rude mean or 
just a bad person I've got bad feeling 
about wow they were amazing they're so 
welcoming and I really got along with 
them made friends with the girls I'm 
like still friends with them and just us 
hanging out even by ourselves 
they're so sweet and yeah that was our 
third day we did all his fans on New 
Year's right kept on hanging out after 
that and it was amazing and it was it's 
funny um I don't know if I'm jumping 
ahead but it was a month in 
I was like okay I've been running a few 
dates 
I was messaging Eileen because we were 
coming towards the end of our uh you 
know our session together our time and I 
was like you know I really like him I 
haven't been on a date with any other 
person I haven't really talked to 
anybody else and 
I wanted to see if he's on the same page 
if he wants to be if make it official 
she's like ask him I'm like you want me 
to ask him what she said yeah just ask 
him and just ask him and he says he's 
not ready give him some time be like 
okay well we'll have this conversation 
in a week or two just give him some room 
and then if he's not ready just move on 
because you just that's not what you're 
looking for you don't want to just go on 
dates and have fun that's you want to 
settle down get mad and I'll say okay I 
asked him and he's like I was like are 
you dating other people and he he gone 
it was like a little offended he's like 
what dating other people what do you 
mean no I'm not dating other people I'm 
with you okay oh 
so and then he just brought up he said 
do you want to make it official he's 
like hell yeah okay there you go 
I feel like I have a boyfriend 
right and it I because from my previous 
experience I was like so you are my uh 
party's like boyfriend and he was like 
I'm your boyfriend I was like ah okay 
there you go we have a title right we 
just for those of you who haven't heard 
the podcast episode from a couple of 
weeks ago it's does being exclusive mean 
your boyfriend or girlfriend in my 
definition it should but you need to 
clarify that and start off as a good 
student of ours like one equals the 
other it's not a stepping stone to 
giving somebody a title if you are not 
seeing anybody else you're pulling your 
profiles down yes please ask so I am 
your fill in the blank please oh my 
friend girlfriend girlfriend girlfriend 
whatever you are get the title clear it 
up that day 
oh yeah I was like I need to know I'm 
too old for this I need to know that I 
just 
I'm your girlfriend or not and just 
it's been amazing ever since maybe it 
had some challenges and you know who 
doesn't what couple doesn't but we just 
overcame that and 
because we generally just want to be 
together we work at it we take the time 
to work through our problems and he's 
just he's just a gentle soul 
he's so gentle so sweet 
just I I can 
he's an elevator person he's the 
elevator first he's my cheerleader 
because sometimes I get I know sometimes 
I get tired of studying 
like I'm I don't want to study anymore 
I'm just so tired he's like one more 
hour just just give me one more hour he 
can do it just one more hour and then 
come out and we'll just watch it Netflix 
show or whatever we can do one more hour 
and look up I had a migraine this 
morning and he said just lay in bed and 
relax even I got new Starbucks and she's 
like cheer me up and he's like just you 
know just get this positive energy in 
yourself just think about the people who 
love you think about your parents think 
about me think about 
um you know our dog and because he was 
like the dog was laying in bed with me 
and he's like because he knows how much 
I love the dog and he's like just think 
about it and just keep just you know 
just try to pump yourself up you can do 
this and you're gonna feel better I'm 
gonna go get your sorrow do you want me 
to like yeah I'm gonna do 
thank you 
because he was having a visit because he 
works from home and 
but he really 
like 
the smallest things 
matters the smallest stuff because 
for him to care about the fact that I'm 
not feeling well I need coffee it that 
really does help me let me go pick up 
coffee for you or let me do something 
for you that's going to make you happy 
it just it really does a little stuff 
that we look over we tend to uh not pay 
attention to I'd be like oh whatever 
because we just want to be in a 
relationship so bad 
it's not good we should pay attention to 
those red files in the very early on 
because he's 
I feel like I found someone who loves me 
the same way my dad loves my mom 
your makeup is so pretty don't cry 
this is it's like the perfect book end 
and you are when did you get engaged why 
so he took me on a vacation 
um because our first vacation we just 
loves to travel 
we went to Charleston South Carolina 
at our one year anniversary was coming 
up so he's like oh why don't we just go 
there and you know and I'm like okay so 
there was this this beautiful puff I 
wish I remember it Snee I can never 
remember it 
um he said we're going to do a tour 
we're gonna go on a tour but we're gonna 
go to a to a fancy restaurant afterwards 
just dress up you know it's a really 
fancy restaurant okay 
and I'm walking up I'm looking for a 
group I'm looking I was like I said dad 
he's like no I'm like he said I'm right 
there he's like no he said okay come on 
let's go this way where are we going and 
then 
he's always like I have something in my 
shoes and he just got something on my 
shoes that's why he's 
I don't want me and he has 
beautiful speech and then he I was just 
like I'm gonna I don't for some reason 
when he say I'm looking around like is 
this happening to me right now you were 
confused 
I'm getting engaged like what this man 
who's amazing he just like 
wow he wants to marry me what were you 
completely surprised I was completely 
surprised I had a feeling that if 
you are moving to that towards that 
direction but I didn't know it was going 
to happen in that vacation it happened 
and after you know he gave me doing and 
we hug and we kissed and he was like oh 
look over there I'll look and I see 
someone's taking picture of us so he set 
up a like a photographer just sit there 
and like take pictures of us and then we 
did a photo shoot with him afterwards 
and it was I'm like wow you are just 
sort of a cage right afterwards and we 
they had like a dinner this beautiful 
restaurant and 
it was just like a dream I just I'm like 
wow like everything all this heartache 
everything I went through because it 
went away it was worth it if 
I feel like everything that I went 
through with just you know dating 
getting my heart broken and all that 
yeah yeah I feel like you're just 
Universe rewarded me 
the universe rewarded you it was your 
time right and I'm sorry 
and what I love 
in your story is that you you know so 
many people wait and wait and wait and 
they keep doing the same thing over and 
over again thinking I'm gonna watch a 
video and I'm gonna learn everything and 
you were smart enough to know I need to 
really change things up and I need 
somebody to teach me and hold me 
accountable and that you allowed us to 
do that for you so that's for sure you 
were a gift my whole team loves you 
everybody that loves you I text you and 
Nisa they're like shut up 
everybody super super excited that 
you're engaged and when's the wedding 
October 28th October 28th of this year 
you guys 
this beautiful soul is between you if 
you're thinking you've had your heart 
broken again and again and again and 
you know you keep attracting the wrong 
guy think about are you accepting the 
wrong people are you picking the wrong 
people and most of the people we work 
with their Pickers are off and so having 
someone to help you identify where your 
picker is off and then gently guiding 
you in the direction of good people it's 
such an honor to to do this work and to 
see that pot of gold at the end of the 
rainbow for you that you're engaged and 
truth be like iMessage set off just out 
of nowhere like she was in my phone last 
week I'm like hey how are you you're 
like oh my God I was gonna text you 
wedding photos but I'm engaged I'm like 
wait what and then 
this week and I'm like you have to tell 
your love story on the podcast because 
you're so darn cute 
oh thank you it's it's it's been an 
amazing journey and I'm really like you 
guys your whole team are always in my 
heart and 
it's it really helped me to 
realize what I was doing wrong and 
just opened my eyes to 
just this whole new world of dating and 
I know it happened quickly for me 
because it wasn't so long after I got on 
the website that I read my fiancee 
um but it might take some time and it 
really don't give up and that's what I 
tell my single family do not give up 
just 
make sure the guy that you're going 
after 
is the right guy for you and if you see 
a red flag because I would see sometimes 
I would even see those red flags but I 
would ignore them I would like you know 
but he has all these other good 
qualities but that red flag 
was just like 
it was a big deal he was a controlling 
person but I would ignore it because he 
was and some you know right he's just 
easy hands um he's just like I got like 
he's like like I wanted someone who's 
taller than me because of like I loved 
where I am going to taller he is he's 
just 
look sometimes I'll look at I'm like are 
you real like really good and it just it 
does happen it I believe there are 
guys like that or girls for because 
there are Gods who are you know looking 
for their 
um partner or of course if there are 
people like that for all of us there is 
love for all of us out there we just 
have to be patient and 
um just keep on looking because he or 
she they're out there they're waiting 
for us 
right and you gotta change things up and 
then Shake It Up you gotta change things 
up like the photos the text in your 
profile the way you're messaging how 
you're picking there's a whole dating 
well I don't know how the hell a car 
works but I know that there's a lot of 
stuff that happens from the time I press 
on to make that car reverse out of my 
driveway dating is very much the same 
way there's a lot of stuff that has 
synchronicity that has to all happen in 
the right time and yeah you're such a 
good student and you did it all and I'm 
so happy for you and I'm grateful that 
you came on here to share your optimism 
and I love that you know that love 
exists for everybody message guys first 
okay ladies right message guys first if 
you see something you'll like go get it 
go after it do you have any more pieces 
of wisdom for someone who's single and 
wishing for love 
be patient be patient love yourself 
and be patient love is out there because 
once you have that attitude you're 
Attract it you will attract a guy who 
is in your same level who's on your 
sample level you attract that kind of 
person for guys too because 
you know I feel like be positive like 
you cannot lose hope be positive 
just 
go on those dates 
listen to Bella 
come to Chicago 
you'll have a lot of fun 
and just 
it works it's just you and it is okay 
for you to 
be depressed the issue you know to just 
go just go get it be like hey you want 
to be my boyfriend you want to go out on 
a date with me you want to you know do 
this and it's it's okay and 
and then give him time to be the 
gentleman and you know just spoil you 
and you know but but you have the power 
and what you're saying is Empower 
yourself Empower yourself with patience 
Empower yourself with compassion for 
yourself for the process and to do 
whatever it is you want to do message 
the guy use your voice ask him to be 
exclusive right what is this so take the 
bowl by the horns because with the right 
person you won't have to wonder 
no you really don't because he's not 
going to keep you guessing he never kept 
me guessing he was very honest just 
straight up very direct and really uh 
when you are talking him just pay 
attention don't sit there and be all 
like 
yeah you just you're just looking I'm 
just so you know happy to be here every 
little thing that he says it just shows 
you the kind of person he is because for 
me it was important for the guy to be 
family oriented 
uh on our first conversation he said 
okay well I have to you know say goodbye 
to you because I'm going to see my 
family I'm gonna go see my parents 
because I haven't seen him in a while I 
was like wow look at that he's closing 
his family I love it like I love the guy 
who's family oriented so 
stuff like that don't be like I wanna go 
see your family but if you're looking 
for a guy who's going to be family 
oriented because family are very 
important 
because I want to see the guy that who 
what kind of 
household he was raised 
so even he's just that way and he is 
very close to them 
it's just 
makes it that much better you just pay 
attention and if you see a red flag and 
it's big just be like yeah bye it's fine 
peace out thank you next he's single 
he's single then it's better be single 
than be miserable amen oh you're such a 
Dream well I hope you come back to 
Chicago for a comeback with James and 
we'll do another photo shoot for you 
around the same thing I was in Chicago 
for my um uh photo shoot he was just 
visiting there and I'm like oh wait was 
it what's that thing that was totally 
fade all of its fate all of his faith 
thank God for Steve Harvey 
thank God for Steve Harvey 
or 
Steve yeah 
yeah I'd be like hey there's another 
wedding we did Steve 
[Laughter] 
oh big hugs to you thank you so much and 
for all of you listening I hope that 
you're inspired by sadaf's story and you 
know that love exists for you as well 
and take the steering wheel of your own 
dating life change things up send that 
message change those photos invest in 
yourself do things differently whatever 
that means to you so until next week 
keep the love that she's given you and 
I'm giving you in your heart be inspired 
that the lid to your pot is out there 
and all you have to do is keep dating 
until you find him or her and amen amen 
and with that smart daters Sada thank 
you so much we love you I love you thank 
you so much for having me on oh my gosh 
and smart taters we'll see you next week 


and the first thing is is to answer the 
questions or look at make a list of what 
do you have now 
and what do you want and look at where 
the gaps are because that's 
that's the gaps are where you need to 
let go so it's really figuring out if 
you are here 
if you are single 
or divorced and you want love you want 
to get here 
what is in between you and single and 
love 
that is standing between you make a list 
of what those things are 
what you think they are are they your 
kids are they 
you know shared friendships are they the 
pressures of convention are they 
internal limiting beliefs which are huge 
like i'm too fat to find love again i 
find love again um i'm too 
um i don't choose well to find love 
again i'm not lucky you know fate wants 
me to be single it's a sign from the 
universe that i'm not supposed to be 
with anyone like what are those things i 
call them let goabbles 


[Music] 
public speaking they say is the number 
one fear of most humans and if you think 
about it why would that be a bigger fear 
than death right it's fear of rejection 
absolutely a hundred years ago uh you 
know somebody said to me what is your 
greatest fear you know I've listed like 
12 things and and he said no no it's 
only one and all those other things are 
born out of that one thing why is it 
that I'm afraid to get close to you know 
somebody why is it that I choose men who 
you know I have to try to make happy 
and I realized you know after like doing 
this incredible dive inward that I was 
afraid of Abandonment and and I could 
pinpoint why I was afraid of it and 
where it was born 


I'm on a bit of a TI raid this these 
days I do a lot of interviews and my 
belief is somebody doesn't understand 
that men and women are different they're 
going to give the wrong advice and so 
I'm so happy that you started with 
understanding men and women are 
different so we have to have a different 
mindset if we want to succeed in having 
loving lasting happy fulfilling 
relationships which people are having 
today you know a lot of people think 
everything's a disaster but it's not as 
you know and I know people are meeting 
each other they're having happy 
relationships they're in love they have 
families this is happening and all we 
get is this sort of negative press and 
the truth is that by understanding how 
to communicate in a new way that maybe 
our parents didn't know and how to find 
a partner in a new way the world has 
changed we can be successful it's people 
like you that help people hold their 
hand and help them find that success so 
I'm really happy to be with you 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
it's your favorite kind of episode it is 
a love story and you guys this love 
story is so tender like as I'm saying it 
I have all the Goosebumps and the chills 
I'm bringing to you an absolutely 
precious ious lovely beautiful 
International client her name is Bianca 
and she's 36 years old and she is from 
Canada and has found love and she is 
here to inspire you and I think a lot of 
you will see yourself in Bianca and I 
want you to know if this sounds like you 
feels like you there is so much hope 
Bianca I'm so delighted 
and honored to have you on this SP 
dating Academy podcast welcome thank you 
so much I'm so happy to be here I am a 
love Club graduate from 2023 it is 
true oh my gosh now where do you live in 
cam enough uh I live in Southwestern 
Ontario uh so it's very close to Toronto 
well very close it's an hour and a half 
to to Toronto um I'm definitely in the 
denser part of the province uh but we 
still get quite a bit of snow the 
legendary snow that everybody talks 
about uh and you know it's actually a 
very beautiful part of the country 
because of the lakes and uh the birds 
I'm into birding I volunteer for Birds 
Canada we get quite a few rare species 
because of the ecosystem uh anyway it's 
a it's a really nice place to live um 
and uh I actually just moved in we just 
moved into our home and we're trying to 
settle in into the area uh and it's just 
a really nice neighborhood a lot of 
families uh a lot of people my age 
actually the demographic just happens to 
be a lot of people my age and a lot of 
people just trying to move up in their 
careers we have a lot of industry in the 
area and that's how that's how I would 
best describe it but the traffic sucks 
if you're wondering yes it sucks all 
over the province from north to south 
east to west there's no way out of it 
it's just sucky it's just sucky traffic 
so Bianca give us a little bit about 
your 
demographics uh so I am 36 years old old 
right now um and I probably didn't start 
seriously dating until I was 28 so very 
late bloomer um no particular reason for 
that I happened to be a chemist from the 
University of Wal so I think I did spend 
quite a bit of time studying I think 
that took up a lot of my time for a long 
time she's a very smart girl by the way 
oh thank you and um I think the best way 
I would describe 
I think it's important to understand my 
upbringing I actually grew up in a a 
very traditional very loving household 
with both my parents uh people always 
assume if you're single you know mom or 
dad must have been out of the picture 
that's not true at all my parents were 
both actually very Hands-On very loving 
uh took me to everything swimming dance 
you name it they were there so I was 
very supported and I had my forever 
Playmate who is my sister and we we 
still she's like she lives like 20 
minutes away from me now so we're still 
very close and my extended family I had 
my entire extended family growing up so 
I was hugely supported um I think what 
actually happened is as a chemists were 
nerdy so you know I'm right it's just 
it's part of the territory um in case 
that wasn't obvious from my birth Canada 
volunteering uh pitch but anyways uh you 
know introverted by Nature uh I think um 
and just and independent adult I don't 
like the word independent because it 
makes me sound like I I never wanted 
anybody or I never needed anybody but I 
just self-sufficient I think is the 
right word so um and really by my mid 
20s almost kind of like a perfect storm 
everyone was married like magic like 
everyone I knew like everyone in my 
family had somebody and all of my 
friends had somebody and there was just 
nobody didn't I you know they just all 
had a really good sense of themselves 
and who they wanted in a partner and so 
they just married the first person they 
picked and like with no issue like 
nobody has problems like everybody's 
just like living life and I'm like how 
did this happen how did you even know 
right like did you like radar was it 
like you I see you you my forever love 
and they could never 
articulate why it worked I think that 
became my frustration because I you know 
yeah as an analytical person like you 
try to get to the bottom of so it's like 
how did you even know to do this um and 
they just you know or how do you resolve 
conflict or how do you not have fights 
just no answers all I heard is when it's 
right when it's the right fit when it's 
the right fit which of course is nothing 
that you can input online or meet at a 
bar right you can't go into the bar 
being like I'm looking for my right fit 
so just if you're not just get out of my 
way and like doesn't happen like that it 
sure does not even if you think there's 
right there's no there's no set 
algorithm right no so people like you 
you know my parents are chemists I 
worked and we had a chemicals company so 
this is probably why Bianca and I jelled 
immediately so right we want a formula 
we want an algorithm right and what 
we're doing is probably the closest 
thing to an algorithm that we can find 
so no 100% And um so basically I was 
walking around with the knowledge Gap 
you know I knew I was missing something 
I just wasn't sure what it was and uh 
and then you know you finally start 
dating and it doesn't work out I 
actually had like my first boyfriend 
who's now happily married to somebody 
else somebody way better suited for him 
by the way cuz people always ask me 
they're like so do you like hate her and 
I'm like no I was like not at 
all I always get these weird questions 
but anyway so he's he's very happily 
married now but when he and I met it was 
at my friend's wedding he was a 
groomsman and I was a bridesmaid and we 
met walking down the aisle it was like 
right out of Hollywood so on that 
criteria alone we should have just 
sailed off into the sunset forever and 
ever and we tried actually for about two 
years and just finally had to call it 
quits because it wasn't getting anywhere 
and then it only got worse you know they 
would like treat me badly not call me 
back could never get them on the phone 
right just all of these things and I 
think the problem is I thought I thought 
about this s and hard like in in 
hindsight and I 
think I don't I know they get picked on 
a lot right now so this is a bad example 
but like Disney we all love Disney we 
all grew up with the movies of Disney 
with the storyline of Disney but it just 
like if you see this plot kind of over 
and over again what basically gets 
internalized is I have to be the hottest 
person in the room I have to find the 
hottest person the other hottest person 
in the room we have to do this before 
we're like 20 and you know and he has to 
be like super rich and slay a dragon and 
I have to be like trapped in a tower 
with like an evil stepmother otherwise 
we can't be happy and so you get to this 
notion that you have to have this 
Fantastical storyline in order to find 
love passionate NeverEnding love and 
it's so odd because so you have this 
like massive expectation hanging over 
you no criteria of what Prince Charming 
even looks like and everybody's just 
like you'll find him just go forth no 
worries like abolutely 
so like no Playbook and it just kept 
getting like worse like truly it just 
kept getting worse because so then I had 
probably like my worst breakup you know 
um like a serious relationship that just 
abruptly ended because it was a dumpster 
fire and then I go back into the dating 
world and the first guy I date is 
married and the second guy I date is not 
only married but like she finds me on 
Facebook to be like what is your problem 
and I'm like I didn't know he was 
married and so it just like deteriorated 
it just kept getting worse and worse and 
worse and I am a fan of Steve Harvey 
American comedian Steve Harvey I'm sure 
a lot of you are and I watched his show 
for a long time and Bella was on the 
program um and I remember thinking 
because you guys had a really 
interesting one where like you went 
through their profile pictures you know 
and kind of explained what they were 
doing wrong in their profile and I and I 
remember thinking that's the first time 
I've ever seen it analyzed like before 
that moment I had never had 
anybody Point anything out to me and I 
thought well that was really unique and 
then I continued to see you on on ABC 
and I think M 
NBC if that sounds right so I just kept 
seeing you on television like all the 
time I was like she must be somebody um 
so and then I started following your 
YouTube channel um and then I think I 
finally just decided I'm going to make 
the call I'll just I'll just go for it I 
had looked through the website I had 
watched you on YouTube so I had kind of 
gotten a sense of you and what the Smart 
dating Academy might be about and so I 
thought I'm not getting anywhere right I 
you know as as an academic I thought I 
just need a professional coach that's 
basically it you know so I I made the 
plunge and we got going on the phone 
coaching and that was like right when 
covid hit like literally we go into 
lockdowns right because I think I was 
getting I was like I'll just fly to 
Chicago and like the Border gets shut 
down the Border shut down right right 
and you're like okay I can't come to you 
so I'm gonna do this remotely and thank 
goodness for Zoom yeah thank God because 
not just zoom but thank God for online 
dating and just because otherwise I 
would have just been trapped in my condo 
waiting for Co to end so we were we were 
in this really strange bubble and I 
think a lot of that we pioneered 
together and the other clients right 
because we were just getting used to do 
video dating cuz there was no other 
option uh and I think that's just one 
aspect of how the Smart dating Academy 
innovates like they 
don't I think it's very important to 
note that like they like you guys go 
with the trend like you don't try to 
create Trends you don't try to bucket 
you're just like okay what is people 
doing right now how can we optimize it 
and so you know I was on board for this 
but what I was not prepared for and I'll 
be honest about this because I did think 
it was going to be a lot of hair and 
makeup and there's some hair and makeup 
and how to dress which I still use to 
this day but I remember when I got 
obsessed by Lindsay because I was 
receiving the feedback that dates with 
me felt like interviews which is not 
what anyone trying to be a princess 
locked in a tower wants to hear 
so like it's just like the exact 
opposite of what you're going for so 
Lindsay was like yeah I can see it and 
she was like do you work in a male 
dominated industry and I actually do and 
I was like how would you even know that 
and she was like cuz you sit like this 
and I was sitting like this when she was 
talking to me and I was like arms 
crossed arms crossed leaning back I 
think it's probably as like far back as 
I could go probably something like this 
and so and she was like you're not 
smiling she was like and you're firing 
questions at me right so you know it is 
what it is and I was like okay and so 
then we had like a couple of I think 
mergency sessions to try and fix this 
because there was no way I was going to 
go into the dating field until like this 
got corrected and I had to go get photos 
because all my photos up to that point 
had not even been selfies because that 
would have been better it was like 
friends of mine like when I'm playing 
with their kids like there was one in 
particular that I always remember cuz 
she and I still make fun of this so she 
had like some kind of flower in the 
garden and I was like this will be great 
for my profile shot and so like we kind 
of shove her kid out of the photo and 
she takes the shot and that's my head 
shot for like online dating so Lindsay 
was like these have to go you have to go 
get like real photos so while we were 
waiting for that to happen um I did like 
the program and so I remember being 
blown away by my attachment style I am a 
recovered anxious attachment style um I 
think probably the biggest thing I 
learned from that was direct 
communication oh my gosh you have no 
idea how much a difference that makes 
just in itself just to be able to say 
what you mean when you mean to say it 
has already just been an improvement but 
so my attachment style you know how to 
present yourself confidence CU so much 
of it right like a first date is so 
stressful you know you have no idea who 
you're meeting you have no idea how 
you're going to come off and so so much 
of it is insecurity it's kind of 
self-sabotage because you already go in 
thinking this is going to be a disaster 
because I don't know what I'm doing and 
then it is because you don't know what 
you're doing so I think like correcting 
my mindset I remember it's a 
psychotically optimistic do you do you 
ladies still use that oh my God 
absolutely all day every day it's just 
it's the only way to be just just 
borderline delusional optimistic you 
know it's a really nice way to live 
actually to be honest right um yeah no 
it is the much more freeing way to live 
um it's better to just try and fail than 
to never try at all I think is also what 
I've learned from this experience but my 
point is so you know Lindsay and I were 
doing kind of all of this training and 
Bella and I were joking about this 
before so Lindsay asked me because I'm 
not great with small talk so she was 
like well you have to go talk to the 
cashiers at the grocery store right easy 
in Easy out if it doesn't work you leave 
and I was like what do you mean she was 
like say hi to them and was like I don't 
I don't think I can handle this so I 
went to a so to try this out and you 
know when you like sweat but not from 
like your forehead but like from your 
back like I don't know if anybody ever 
it's anxiety it's like cortisol sweat 
yeah like you like you're like I'm going 
into a fever pitch and like I just have 
like oranges right because I didn't want 
me to have to like pack in case this 
went wrong so I'm just like literally 
with oranges and like you know she's 
like a a kid basically I went for the 
youngest person I could find because I 
thought well this will be easy because 
they I feel like they're talkative maybe 
that's not a fair stereo and so I'm just 
like with my oranges trying to make 
small talk with this person and you know 
it's brutal but the net result is you 
can talk to anybody like that's what 
becomes the default like if you practice 
long enough you can just introduce 
yourself to anyone which I I honestly 
never thought would be possible so like 
now if I just see somebody in the road 
and they have something in their car 
that I wanted to buy I just go up to 
them I'm like does this work for you 
like is it good for you and my husband 
like can't believe it like Derek like I 
don't know how you do this and I'm like 
practice it's all about practice um like 
in a 
way you know you can you can approach 
somebody in a non- creepy way that 
doesn't make them feel threatened and 
makes you feel confident it's just about 
practice really this whole thing is just 
about a learned skill set that you kind 
of just take with you 
but uh I could hear myself babbling 
Bella you're welcome to like redirect me 
or cut me off any I no you're exactly I 
mean this is awesome I think Bianca what 
I most I remember when you came in to us 
and you're like I know certain things 
about myself like I like I think it was 
guys that are interested in sports you 
liked people that worked in the trades 
right you're like right like I know the 
kinds of guys I want like I like the 
I like I'm trying to remember exactly 
what we went through I'm like this is 
great like you have a really good sense 
of who a good partner is going to be for 
you but then it was really about 
addressing these negative beliefs right 
it's like is there anybody out there for 
me how how is this going to work am I 
actually going to find somebody is 
online dating going to work and you know 
relationships have to be hard they have 
to be high conflict because you had come 
from high conflict ups and downs in your 
prior relationship so it was really 
working on these 
beliefs I honestly thought that was like 
a component like that was a mandatory 
component like if the couple wasn't 
fighting they weren't moving forward 
like you know I just I have a list of I 
think false values that really held me 
back for a long time so all the good men 
are taken oh my gosh how how many times 
do we hear that even now day in and day 
out which is not even remotely true um 
I'm too old 
nonsense uh you know just friendly 
reminder of people who are in their 60s 
date in case you didn't know 70s and ' 
80s too it's like I didn't know either 
but it's 100% true uh I've made too many 
mistakes that was a painful one I 
definitely thought I had mixed it 
somehow like I had missed my opportunity 
right because everybody at this point 
like everyone I knew was like married 
with like three kids not even just like 
one kid like three and so I thought I 
just missed this somehow which is not 
true at all um Lasting Love is a scarce 
commodity I don't know why my parents 
have been happily married for almost 40 
years I don't know if you know everybody 
I know has been married now for at least 
10 years so I don't know where I got 
that from oh this was important if I had 
been treated badly in relationship I did 
something to deserve that now look take 
it with a grain of salt if you're 
combative you're combative right and it 
will cause problems but you know as an 
anxious attachment style you get so 
obsessed with the idea that you have to 
go out and just I don't know hook this 
person in and you have to get everything 
right and if you don't do it like this 
was it but none of that's true like 
you're a human being you're going to 
mess up right and if their response to 
that is to Stonewall you is to make fun 
of you like these are red flads which 
we're getting to because I think that's 
the most important part of the program 
but um yeah all relationships have high 
conflict I actually believe that it's 
crazy oh and my career and hobbies will 
affect my ability to find a partner I 
I'm an academic like so I just I happen 
to be in like that labeled career for 
women right so as a chemist you just 
feel like that's a death sentence for 
dating you know you just think I'm way 
too nerdy or I'm going to be you know 
all thee conceived Notions they have 
of I don't know academic women right 
Sone of yeah true um so I really thought 
I remember for a long time I wouldn't 
even mention my hobbies you know just 
like of going out to do field research 
for birds like just total lockdown 
wouldn't even say that at all cuz I was 
like how would I even bring that up 
organically and uh so wouldn't even go 
there and that women are at a natural 
disadvantage in dating I don't know 
where we get this idea from uh I don't 
know how that gets manifested because I 
was trying to think of where in the 
universe I got this idea I I really just 
don't know I guess maybe the obsessive 
Beauty culture I really just have no 
idea but it's also just not none of this 
is true these are all actually these are 
all just toxic ideas so that you'll 
settle for somebody who treats you badly 
that's basically all they are so it just 
prevents like 100% it just it's just 
like so if somebody's just like modestly 
nice to you you're like that's the one 
and like that's not remotely true at all 
but anyways so going back to what I 
learned from the dating Academy so yeah 
so presenting well when you're nervous 
so I finally you know I go back into the 
dating game nervous totally nervous 
hated all of my photos by the way 
because statistically we all picked the 
worst ones of ourselves so Lindsay 
picked them I remember thinking I can't 
do this I even said to my mother I was 
like I can't do this she didn't pick a 
single one that I wanted and mom was 
like well I guess that's what you signed 
up for right and so I still get 
compliments about those pictures to this 
day like people still ask thank you that 
people still ask me where did you get 
these done but I remember at the time 
thinking cuz I wasn't reconciled to 
liking myself I don't like a single 
photo that they posted it was the only 
time I got nervous I was like maybe this 
won't work cuz I don't like any of these 
but anyway so we set out my profile I'm 
back in the Dating Game and of course so 
you're in and you're getting dates right 
you were getting a lot of dates I 
flooded actually this that's not even 
for bragging points that's just a net 
effect of the Smart dating Academy my 
inbox exploded because I even remember 
Lindsay saying give it a day and you 
know don't be terribly overwhelmed just 
kind of go through it I remember 
thinking there's going to be like two 
there I think I had like 50 hits 
probably within like 48 hours and I 
remember thinking my God if this 
momentum goes up like I'll never find 
him like it actually became like the 
opposite reaction you know overwhelming 
yeah it it was and so you know so okay 
so now now what so we start asking 
because that's the thing right like 
people always think online dating you 
skip the process where you skip the love 
process you actually have to do the 
process no matter what no matter where 
you meet them no matter how you meet 
them you have to feel them out there's 
no way around that so of course how do 
we do that so the probably the biggest 
asset that I got from the academy that I 
will use forever is the red flag radar I 
don't think there was anything more 
valuable but also just like just to keep 
you safe like because you know that's 
one reason I really wanted to do the 
podcast where I am there was a story you 
can look up on the news we had a woman 
in her 60s she became a widow went into 
the dating world had my problem no idea 
how to do this uh ended up in Hong Kong 
in prison because she accidentally 
became a drug mule for the person she 
met online this was a grandmother okay 
and in Co so her relatives couldn't even 
visit her while she was God incarcerated 
so my my point is like there are risks 
to meeting people that you don't know 
and there are risks online like 
catfishing so I remember kind of being 
walked through of all the warning signs 
of what to look for right they don't 
agree to video dates you know if they 
don't you can't talk to them on the 
phone you know all of like they won't 
meet you at a place where you feel 
comfortable like getting into all of 
that but I remember the particular one 
that surprised me was being rude to 
weight staff I actually thought that was 
being a bit picky cuz I thought people 
have bad days some weight staff are bad 
right but I have to say it spared me 
from one nasty fish because we went into 
Tim Horton which is like a chain over 
here right we we have that everywhere at 
every street corner so they serve coffee 
and we went in and he blasted the kid 
behind the counter and like I was coming 
in late so I didn't catch it so I don't 
know if the kid messed up or whatever 
but he's like 17 you know so I was 
thinking it is what it is and I was like 
it's coffee like they'll just remake 
your coffee blasted him blasted him so 
hard I actually felt uncomfortable 
sitting in the restaurant afterwards and 
in the past I would have said oh you 
know he's a guy guy right the tattoos 
you know it is what it is but I followed 
the academy rules and I thought I am not 
going to call this person back well he 
had a girlriend who was expecting a baby 
so spared me that one right cuz that's 
just what it is right he was very 
selfish he was very conceited he didn't 
think he had to answer to anybody that's 
really what that meant and that's really 
what those red 
flag I love the line 
of I don't I don't remember how you 
phrase it it's like people show us who 
they really are our job is to believe 
them 
absolutely just 100% 100% like because 
that's really everything I ever needed 
to know about that individual you know 
and I haven't seen him since and I don't 
want to but my point is that's all I 
ever need to know about him I don't like 
that was it that was all I needed to see 
and so I think the old version of me 
would have like laughed it off and 
thought well he's just having a bad day 
you know that's just what life is on the 
job for this poor 17-year-old but no 
like it's not okay it's not okay it's 
not okay it's a character it's 
displaying character right and if you 
flash forward now you're newly married 
but you've been in this relationship and 
we'll get to Derek in a minute but you 
see that things don't always go well 
right and when you look at somebody who 
flips out over a freaking coffee and 
loses their load over that what is that 
person going to be like one day when 
they're angry at you their intimate 
partner right if they in public what are 
they going to do to you in 
private yeah what that's but you always 
have to ask yourself you always have to 
ask yourself could you deal with this 
person when things aren't great that's 
really that's all you should be asking 
yourself that's all you should be asking 
yourself majority of the time yes common 
values of course are important I did do 
the eight dates program by the John Gman 
Institute you know we did that dererk 
and I did that before we got married and 
that's how we had confidence in in 
getting married because we had gone 
through all of our core values kind of 
what we wanted for the future we had had 
all those conversations you can't have 
those conversations with somebody who 
screams at a 17-year-old over coffee 
it's not going to happen they're not 
there for it they won't stick around for 
it to be honest they'll end up ghosting 
you they'll do you the favor because 
they won't sit through it no so definit 
definitely the red flag ridar I've even 
used it I applied it almost immediately 
to my career I had interviewed for a job 
and you know the supervisor was kind of 
just given me all the wrong Vibes and I 
was looking at HR like is it me like can 
I see this and uh it wasn't anything in 
particular I think it was a couple of 
comments you know about some very 
reasonable questions I had made and I 
just you know trust in my gut is I had 
learned how to do and I did not take the 
job and I have learned that since then 
they've had very high turnover 
wow yeah they lost three staff members 
just under I want to say like 14 months 
you know just total just a revolving 
door at this moment in time because High 
conflicts right it's very challenging to 
work with people who aren't willing to 
work with you you know so yeah you have 
unfort it sucks I I know it really sucks 
like when you meet somebody and they're 
attractive and you think oh they're so 
much fun and then you you see the red 
flag right like it comes out and you're 
just like oh like no like why you please 
please just no no no red flags and then 
the red flag shows itself and if you 
have that scarcity mindset that's when 
you're willing to sweep it under the rug 
because you're like oh there's no good 
ones left I'm being too picky this is 
fine he's a gu's guy and we sweep that 
stuff under the rug and that's where we 
go off 
track that's exactly what happens that's 
exactly how it happens because you just 
you just make allowance for it you just 
I'm not saying anybody out there is like 
well I'll fix it I know I know some 
people know that's not possible right 
that's not how we think we're educated 
people we just say we just make an 
allowance we just say it was a bad day 
we just rule it out we dismiss it for 
exactly that reason because you think 
even though at the time you're getting 
like 50 dates in your inbox you think to 
yourself I'll never find somebody who 
will match me so it's really that 
mindset that psychotically optimistic 
mindset it in itself 
kind of like deflects so much of the 
people that we don't want to end up 
being with there's no other way to say 
that I know that sounds really harsh but 
you know who's not right for you right 
you just got to keep the mindset I will 
find the lid to my pot I will find this 
person you have to you have to stay 
focused on that with anything with your 
career with your whatever you're going 
for you have to say I I will get there 
and kind of navigate as you're trying to 
get there because it's it's not easy it 
wasn't a straight line you know it was a 
lot of even after you know the second 
time going back with the Smart dating 
Academy that's probably when you were 
the most helpful cuz you're you're still 
being rejected you know by people you 
like people who don't call you back for 
whatever reason people who were talking 
to you for like as much as four weeks 
and then they're like this isn't working 
for me and you're like really cuz you've 
been talking to me every day for four 
weeks but okay like what just happened 
right and you get no answers right you 
have to live with no answers 
you know and I think those were days cuz 
I I I remember you and Lindsay Fielding 
a lot of those emails of like this 
didn't work he didn't call me back blah 
blah blah because you know relatives 
aren't great with stuff like that right 
like if you go to relatives and and 
you're like well he never called me back 
relatives might say to you well what did 
you do wrong right it's that always the 
response you you're hoping for right 
it's like oh you screwed that up again 
honey what did you do you're too picky 
and that's why we have our clients not 
talk to family and friends about their 
relationships like leave it with us we 
will keep you on track because as 
well-intentioned as they 
are they don't do this for work it's 
like asking your neighbor who's a lawyer 
if he can do your root canal it it just 
you know what I I say this with love it 
actually just doesn't work there I have 
two fundamental reasons one is hilarious 
they will pick what works best for them 
this has happened to me on blind dates 
and I've known immediately who the 
friend was that was like I've got 
somebody for her like I it's like I have 
the person sitting across from me and so 
right they they pick what would work for 
them not like not necessarily what might 
be right for you and also yeah they 
don't necessarily know what they're 
doing like that's a harsh reality but 
it's true right especially in my case 
because they all managed to pick 
somebody right out the gate nobody dated 
there was nobody who had any idea how to 
use Bumble people didn't know what I was 
talking about they were like you mean 
match right and like no Bumble I was 
like there's more than one like they 
didn't even you know what I mean so some 
of us no clue some of us just don't have 
anything that they're working with but 
um so sorry I've lost my train of 
thought yeah so red flags that's kind of 
I love that and I love that the rubric 
of red flagged helped you with dating 
and it helped you in your own life with 
your career and and tell us now okay so 
you're you're internalizing the model 
your dating SDA style Smart dating 
Academy style now tell us about this 
amazing man Derek who is now your 
husband um how did he enter your 
life well that has its own cute story we 
were still in the height of Co it was at 
the very start of 2021 and Ontario had 
actually just gone back into kind of 
like an emergency lockdown it wasn't 
planned so Premier deg Ford locked us 
down over Christmas hugely controversial 
but they they felt like they had no 
choice and so um he and I had to meet 
outside in January so it's like minus 20 
and there's nowhere to go there's no 
coffee shop there's no movies there's no 
dinner there's no drinks you're just we 
were in a public park walking around in 
minus 20° weather he actually had to use 
the restroom couldn't find any cuz they 
were all 
locked and uh I had applied Smart dating 
Academy I thought okay he this guy loves 
War history because we had done the 
video date that's one reason I felt safe 
meeting him he had no idea how to do it 
it was adorable so he turned on his uh 
camera like his cell phone camera and I 
could just see like this eyeball like 
that's it and I kept telling to him like 
pull it back and he had no idea what I 
was talking about and then like it cut 
because Bumble had like just put in that 
feature and it wasn't reliable so it cut 
out on him and then we ended up talking 
on the phone but I thought okay I'll 
meet him he's he's trying he's trying 
and so when we first got to the date we 
had agreed to meet at a grocery store 
because it was one of the only places 
open and lit and he actually went to the 
wrong Food Basics on the other side of 
town and he was texting me like where 
are you I don't see you and I was like I 
don't see you either and then I was like 
oh I know where you are and so he gr to 
the correct Food Basics and we walked 
around Inus 20° weather talking just 
very casually you know um and he was 
actually very quiet my husband has my 
problem he's even more introverted and I 
would say even less social you know he 
has this group of buddies they're 
they're ride or die but he's just not 
great at reaching out to people who he 
doesn't know and my husband works 
extended hours you know he can work 12 
12 to 14 hour days so you know he 
doesn't have a lot of time to just go 
out and try and meet people so that's 
why he was online and um I actually went 
home after the first date thinking he's 
never going to call me back because he 
didn't you didn't say anything really 
like I was doing most of the talking as 
you can hear now and I wasn't really 
getting a lot of questions and so I 
thought I'll just never hear from him 
again and uh he did call me back and we 
went walking for a second time and even 
colder weather and uh just like for 
hours just literally I think until like 
our faces was going to fall off and I 
thought I remember thinking on the 
second day he has a sense of humor you 
know it's pretty dry because he was shy 
right like he was kind of being like 
okay I don't want to flood her with too 
much but I thought you know if he could 
be himself if he wasn't nervous he'd 
actually have a sense of humor and to be 
honest we just kept dating that way 
because we had no choice like everything 
stayed locked and uh and so we like if I 
show the grandkids in the future it's 
ironically just going to be a bunch of 
photos of birds in the winter like those 
were our photos from our first days in 
fact we had this as our wedding cake 
topper on one of our dates we saw this 
Cardinal and he was really puffed up you 
know cuz he's getting ready to do his 
thing he's getting ready to date with us 
and uh we just stared at this bird CU he 
was really and I I like birds and I knew 
a lot about Cardinals and I shared this 
with him which is what I write the death 
Nell in the past right to just never 
talk about my nerdy hobbies and he was 
just like so fixated and so it ended up 
being our wedding cake topper that we 
were just male and female cardinals and 
that's what I mean like a yeah like it's 
so sweet on its own you know without 
like there's nothing wrong with 
Hollywood like if you meet somebody and 
it's love at first sight go for it you 
know like I'm not going to say take what 
you can get that's the absolute wrong 
attitude we want here but like go with 
it and and that's another thing I just 
want to say because like I have a lot of 
friends who like we're traditional and a 
lot of us are religious and so they feel 
like if they go online it messes with 
their fate it messes with the path the 
universe has laid out for them and if 
somebody who fully believes that God 
could literally mail the person to your 
door like I still believe that even now 
I just would like to challenge you that 
if that scenario hasn't happened you 
might not have the social skills to 
carry the relationship forward and 
that's something serious to consider 
because I think had I stayed an anxious 
Detachment style where the need is to 
text endlessly and call endlessly and 
check in to see where we're doing it 
wouldn't have worked because his job 
just doesn't allow that kind of spare 
time like he doesn't have time to 
constantly answer my t text messages and 
constantly reassure me that he's there 
for me so I I I would just urge you to 
consider that if you haven't had a 
particular setup happened that's not the 
end of the world it might just be that 
you have to go a different way that 
that's just your path and it can still 
just be as fun and cute and romantic 
it's just not a Hollywood by line that's 
that's it that's all you're missing 
you're just not like right like he's not 
Chris Hemsworth and we're not Anne 
halfway as much as we would like to be 
like it just right like but that's okay 
like that's what I mean like we're just 
like being a normal person looking for 
another normal ordinary person I think I 
should say I'm sure the other two are 
totally normal but just looking for 
another ordinary person that in itself 
ends up being a fun story because that 
was our dating like that was the big 
joke when we were dating is that for 
like six months we could only meet 
outside he couldn't meet we couldn't 
meet any of our relatives my father has 
a chronic cough so there was like no way 
that was happening and uh I think his 
father was recovering from like an arm 
injury that had required surgery so I 
couldn't meet his side of the family so 
it was just kind of like us in the 
secret bubble for months and months um 
you did walk 
outside for all months all those months 
that's that's what I mean like no like I 
think we went on one date cuz I think 
lockdown lifted just long enough that we 
could actually go in and eat a meal and 
then it like immediately went back under 
lockdown again for Easter that year like 
our particular provin and so I don't 
think he actually met my parents until 
June but by that point we had already 
done like the eight days and we had 
already spent all of this time together 
so there was no risk and I didn't really 
need I say this gently because I love my 
parents obviously and their opinion 
means quite a bit to me but I didn't 
really need anybody's like approval or 
or validation at that point I had enough 
kind of security in the relationship 
that I thought this might actually be it 
already even back then I didn't say 
anything cuz you know I do the whole 
year right we always recommend you do 
the whole year but I I just remember 
thinking this at the very least this is 
very different just very different it's 
promising and I know that we did you 
knew who your elevator people were the 
people that made you happy and we talked 
about red flags but then it's what are 
the green flags and I know from early on 
he met your green flags he you know 
loved your hobbies liked you for you was 
supportive and a cheerleader and your 
relationship was just easy overall and 
easy doesn't mean there's no conflict 
but it means we can navigate through 
things EAS easily and for listeners I 
just want to you knowk back to one point 
I know you know when Bianca was saying 
about Hollywood and everybody wants 
their meat cute to be something 
different and we don't expect that to be 
online dating to some sense but if you 
look at an amazing high quality guy like 
Derek who is introverted and who yes has 
you know great friends but a small group 
is not going to be the guy that's going 
to walk into a PB and be like hey the 
guy that's going to talk to the cashier 
even if he's got a sack of oranges with 
him so the place when you're meeting the 
place I'm not saying online dating is 
easy or it's without flaws or but it 
levels the playing field people good 
people that are more introverted but 
would make great Partners they feel more 
secure and like they actually have a 
shot at this by doing online dating so 
that can be your meet cute and it's a 
okay right right now the data shows 
since I started this business 15 years 
ago that one in three marriages take 
place because of online dating I think 
that number is dreadfully understated so 
I just wanted to highlight the meet cute 
I mean listen to this story you met on a 
dating app and you met and he was at the 
wrong store and he didn't know how to do 
a video date even before that and you 
dated eyeball but then you're like he's 
trying and then he was at the wrong 
grocery store and then your wedding 
Toppers were Cardinals right it's like 
all of this stuff you couldn't plan a 
cuter story than that that's that's what 
I wanted to get across like I think I 
think people get held back because they 
become so convinced that it has to be A+ 
b equal C and if it's not that it's just 
not happening or it just can't be and 
it's just that's just such a 
misconception we are flooded by that 
media line I think endlessly just 
endlessly oh my gosh we just get fed all 
these false values that if it doesn't if 
it if he's not a particular way my 
husband would never walk into a bar and 
just go up into a woman and be like you 
know what I think you're stunning and I 
think you're the one for me never he 
would die he he would just we wouldn't 
be able to handle it I don't think he 
could I don't think he could do to be 
honest he would vaporize it would just 
never happen VAP even the hours sorry 
even the hours that he was working like 
there's no way he at the time he was 
working 12 hours a day six days a week a 
a week so we were dating I think like 
either every Saturday or every Sunday 
just for a long time for a long time and 
that's just how that's just how it was 
um but uh yeah yeah no and I'm just very 
supportive very supportive of all 
everything that I I think I was most 
afraid of right just like super nerdy 
into all of this just right like who do 
you know cataloges Birds right but just 
like into it you know because he likes 
hiking so it's not an issue right we'll 
just go hiking and he'll be like oh is 
that something over there you know what 
I mean like right you just kind of you 
just lean in you just up leaning in but 
easy yes I remember absolutely easy 
because for a long long long long time 
and I don't know where I got this from 
because it's not modeled for me like 
it's not like everybody I know has 
healthy n like healthy normal good 
relationships but for some reason I 
thought if this is not an uphill climb I 
am just not making it to the top of that 
mountain and that is not it's actually 
exhausting that's what you'll end up 
doing to yourself you'll just like if 
you if you're like listening to this and 
you're like I hate dating you know I'm 
exhausted I'm confused I have no idea 
what to look for it it's it's because 
you're operating with the wrong mindset 
just I know that's hard to hear right 
because a lot of us are intelligent 
people a lot of us are very capable 
people who can make all of our own 
decisions right I think that was 
probably the biggest blow to my ego was 
that despite having like a University 
degree I couldn't date you know you're 
just walking around like hitch like that 
movie like I watch that movie now and 
I'm like oh my God like that was it that 
was that moment like that's how I see 
myself in the past now and it's actually 
hilarious that it became a movie cuz I 
was like I'm not the only one like 
somebody obviously lived that too um but 
right like you just it's that hard 
moment of where you're just sitting down 
being like like I just don't know what 
I'm doing like I just don't know what 
I'm doing I just have to accept this and 
move on and move and people ask people 
are like you're like the real life hitch 
I'm like yes we are yeah you are that's 
right that's absolutely right actually 
that's hilarious that I didn't think of 
that before but that is so true that is 
so true oh my God I think because I like 
the idea of you as a fairy godmother I I 
love that con I like that too I like 
that too um I love the Fairy Godmother 
and I'm just I you know for you to find 
have found that perfect leer pot it 
makes me so happy I remember the days of 
Instagram live and you were always there 
always chiming in you know boosting 
other people up I knew you would be a 
very special person and I've worked with 
a lot of people and you were one of the 
most um absorptive people if I can like 
you just absorb things immediately and 
you're like oh my gosh yes and so 
coachable and you just it's like you're 
locked and loaded we give you a thing 
and you're like I'm going to the grocery 
store and I'm going to bring my oranges 
and and so when you have guidance most 
importantly and I'm so glad that you 
enlisted us but really you did the heavy 
lifting and you did the thing right you 
can hire the best trainer in the world 
to try lose 50 pounds in the best 
nutritionist but if you're not going to 
change and take the advice that your 
team is giving you you're not going to 
make progress and what you did was you 
took a after every single call you 
dutifully went back and you did the 
thing and I couldn't be prouder of you 
and I'm not in a second I mean we're 
going to post Bianca's photos on this 
page you're going to see how gorgeous 
she is and she's very 
talk but Heros were gorgeous because 
she's gorgeous and speaking of gorgeous 
tell us about the text that you sent me 
over Thanksgiving what was the gift that 
Derek got you for Christmas oh for 
Christmas so I have this very cute this 
is he surprised me with this because we 
weren't originally going to do gifts uh 
but I got him a gift and so I think he 
was just really touched but also just 
like oh no like now I have to get her 
something so he was going through his 
Instagram and it was an ad where you can 
make like a custom ornament and so it's 
the two of us I'll just see if I can 
it's the two of us together and I'm 
shocked that he managed to put this 
together himself like he got my hair I 
actually own those boots um like 
completely and that's what he looks like 
he my husband is quite blonde um and 
it's just so sweet you know it just he 
just kind of surprised me with it out of 
nowhere um and it was so touching and I 
was trying for hours to be like confess 
that this was your mother because I get 
along really well with my mother-in-law 
like she's hilarious we drink really 
hard together I usually have to leave my 
car there but I so you know what I mean 
like so I was like tell me this was mama 
Lou and like even now I'm waiting for 
her to like crack and call me from 
Florida and be like it was 100% me but 
no she he insists it was him and I think 
that's I think that just kind of 
summarizes the whole thing that's what 
you want you want somebody who just for 
fun wants to be really sweet to you it's 
going to make me cry so we have to move 
quickly past this topic because it's 
really it's just really touching and 
it's going to be on our tree this year 
um I took it down so so that you could 
um I took it off the tree so that people 
could see it cuz I don't know how well 
you can see the tree but this is this is 
our Christmas tree we're doing a little 
bit of remodeling on the other side of 
the house so I made sure this was the 
actual background and not what's on the 
other side of the computer but uh yeah 
so just really just really sweet um and 
you know it's just so nice to have 
someone to lean on it's actually like a 
team it's it's a team Dynamic it's not 
you trying to live up to somebody's 
expectations it's not somebody running 
the show it's just the two of you you 
you know kind of working on it and 
working on it's not even the right word 
just in tandem the two of you are just 
like in Partners your partners in life 
which I love and I'm gonna have you send 
me a picture of the ornament so that we 
can post it on your web page on your 
page on the Smart dating Academy site in 
addition to your pictures from your 
photo shoot so you can see how cute she 
is and their wedding photos I mean they 
literally are just like a little 
supermodel couple but I'm so so so happy 
for you like my face kind of hurts from 
smiling through this epod as you can see 
and do you have any last gems that you 
want to drop on on our dear 
listener um I hav't 
asked I I can end it on a fun note which 
I think was a good sign of things to 
come I had thought of ice breakers for a 
long time on the website like you know 
because on Bumble women make their first 
move so I thought what can I ask this 
person that isn't how are you right 
because it doesn't really give people 
much leeway so I thought okay uh if you 
could be anything in the ocean what 
would you be right cuz again I'm a nerd 
and looking back I can't believe I 
actually went that route but anyways so 
if you could be anything in the ocean 
what would you be and this is true I 
would say all the like all of the men 
without fail just said great white shark 
just everybody great white shark just 
had to be Alpha apex predator and so it 
was like hilarious because I thought 
well this actually backfired because I'm 
getting the exact same answer over and 
over again I had one guy say octopus 
kudos to wherever you are right now in 
the in the universe I'm sure you were 
also happily married um but darrk said 
hammerhead shark and I laughed and I 
said why would you go for shark and not 
go for white he said well Hammerheads 
are actually more vicious they actually 
attack more people and they eat more 
people and I was like you in I was like 
that's the most scientific cancer I 
could have had because he was actually 
the last person I messaged before I was 
going to take a bit of a break again on 
Bumble because I did I got overwhelmed 
by by suitors all of the sudden so I 
thought I'm going to take a break and he 
was the very last person I messaged and 
that was the response I got and I 
thought I got to give this a try have to 
I thought that's just hilarious 
Hammerhead I learned something new you 
guys today about the ocean that 
Hammerheads are more 
vicious than great white sharks go Derek 
that one you know you could have gone 
either way on that one you could have 
been like ah red flag on this one who's 
looking for the highest you know level 
of Predator but I totally kidding I'm so 
happy for you we couldn't be happier for 
you Lindsay and I send you massive love 
and thank you so much for being on to 
tell your amazing meat cute story um 
you're the best Storyteller and I wish I 
could just like jump through the screen 
or the airwaves and give you a giant hug 
um that is our drag our you and I have 
always been long distance that's always 
been our issue someday we will meet 
someday we will meet I'm con that would 
be awesome that would be awesome happy 
to share my story anytime and any medium 
the Instagram live you know I just I 
just want the program to help more 
people and to do what it's done for me 
right it changed my life I'm happily 
married now I want that for everybody 
listening so it's going to make me cry 
we have to God you just made me 
cry oh I love you Bianca thank you so 
much for coming 
on 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart taters 
welcome back to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi your host and 
so excited to be here with you today you 
guys always want to know we all want to 
know right especially if you're single 
but even if you're not single if you're 
in a relationship if you're meeting 
friends for the first time how can you 
tell if someone 
likes you 
so what I'm going to teach you about 
today are many tips about becoming 
Sherlock Holmes and being able to decode 
the body language of the person that you 
are chatting with the person that you 
might be in a meeting with you might be 
on a date with you might be on a video 
chat with how do you know that this 
person is into you right I always tell 
our Smart dating Academy clients watch 
what they do not necessarily what they 
say right and do is also let's look at 
body language and why is body language 
important there was a study that came 
out in the 1960s which is still the most 
widely cited study today about how we 
form first impressions of people 
okay so what they found is the scientist 
was named Albert Moravian and he was out 
of UCLA is that 93 did you hear me 93 of 
the way that we interpret people whether 
we have a positive first impression or a 
negative or a neutral 93 is based on 
non-verbal communication the way we look 
the way our eye contact is the 
expression on our face what we're doing 
with our hands the way our bodies are 
leaning not leaning what we're wearing 
93 guys is how people are evaluating us 
do they like us do they not are we warm 
are we cold and what I want to teach you 
about today is how do you start to 
understand what is in that 93 so not 
only can you Ace it and create a great 
first impression but more importantly 
the subject of today is how can you tell 
if some someone is potentially into you 
okay so are you ready take out your 
notebooks take some notes because I'm 
going to give you a lot in this episode 
or always feel free to download it so 
you can play it again and again maybe 
you can play this again before you go on 
a first date or a second date or a third 
date with someone anytime you're kind of 
nervous and you want to know does she 
like me does he like me so cue number 
one okay clue number one I should say is 
something that you might not have called 
heard of and it's called mirroring okay 
now what does mirroring mean mirroring 
means if you stop and observe is this 
person kind of doing the same things 
that you're doing much much research out 
there shows that when we like people 
when we are attracted to people when we 
are interested in people we start to 
become in sync with them if their hands 
are on a table our hands are on a table 
if they speak more more softly than we 
do we automatically lower our voice to 
match their tone if they speak more 
quickly we increase our Cadence as well 
so if you sit back and just say are they 
mirroring me does it look like they're 
trying to copy me as my kids would say 
right does this person face you with 
their entire body does it look like 
they're sitting the way that you're 
sitting are they matching your vocal 
volume are they matching the speed at 
which you're talking and if you smile do 
they smile right away if you look 
serious do they get serious right are 
they in sync with you so if they're 
mirroring you chances are you're on to 
something they just my feet into isn't 
that fascinating I find the entire 
subject of mirroring so incredibly 
fascinating and now on the other side 
you guys if you like somebody think 
about how you can mirror their their 
body language to subconsciously showed 
them that you like them it may not be 
coming naturally to you but watch the 
person across from you and if you're 
into them or even if you like them if 
you're on a date with a new friend if 
you're at a dinner party start to try to 
play around with mirroring somebody's 
body language that's sitting across from 
you it's super fun I've done it it's 
insanely effective and you'll see how 
great the results will be so notice if 
somebody is mirroring you and mirror 
people that you like okay so 
um clue number two 
are they getting close to you are they 
in your personal space so I consider 
your personal space if you kind of hold 
out your arm in front of you it's 
probably about a foot and a half maybe 
two feet right if a person is getting 
close to you within your space chances 
are they're telling you subconsciously I 
like you I'm attracted to you I want to 
get closer to you if they pull their 
chair closer to you if you're out at a 
cocktail party and you're talking to 
this person and they come up closer to 
hear you and they're in your space those 
are really good signs when 
that they're into you now remember on 
the reciprocal do the same if you're 
interested in somebody practice getting 
a little closer to them then might feel 
comfortable to you because you're going 
to subliminally subconsciously indicate 
to this person I'm in your space because 
I want to get closer to you because I 
like you okay now 
clue number three I love love love this 
clue and I heard this over a decade ago 
and it's so unbelievably true if you 
want to know if someone is into you look 
at where their feet are pointed if their 
feet are pointed squarely at you and 
some people say is their belly button 
pointing at your belly button which 
probably means their feet are also 
pointing at you our feet Don't Lie they 
point to who they're interested in now 
if you're in a circle of people and 
you're interested in somebody but 
there's other attractive people look at 
the person you're attracted to and look 
at where their feet are pointed 
hopefully their feet are going to be 
pointed at you but if they're feet are 
pointed at someone else they might not 
be that into you and now when we talk 
about the reciprocal what do we want to 
make sure that we're doing if we're into 
somebody make sure your feet your navel 
your body is squared off talking to them 
so you are squarely in front of them so 
they know that you are interested so 
remember look for the cues are they 
interested in me okay are they in my 
space are they mirroring me is their 
belly button square with mine are their 
feet pointed right at me right so it's 
super interesting I've been in business 
meetings where I know this trick and 
I'll look at if there's a whole circle 
full of men right and there's one woman 
talking you will see I looked at all of 
their feet all of their feet happen to 
be pointing at me which was really funny 
right because I'm the lone female and I 
was speaking so when you're looking 
around it's hilarious look around in a 
circle when we're standing there 
if somebody's feet are pointed at you it 
is a very good sign so now clue number 
four if they're interested in you and I 
hear so much about this right on date if 
they are interested in you you know what 
they're gonna do they're gonna ask you 
questions and they're going to want to 
get to know you this is a really big one 
right sometimes when we're in our own 
world and we're not that interested in 
somebody and they ask us questions we 
just continue to talk about ourselves 
talk about ourselves talk about 
ourselves right but when we're truly 
interested in somebody we're like wait I 
want to get to know you and I'm going to 
turn the table back on you and say wait 
enough about me tell me about you right 
so if you're sharing a lot of vulnerable 
details with somebody you probably like 
them right and if they're sharing 
vulnerable details with you and then 
asking you more penetrating questions to 
really get to know you know the essence 
of you chances are that they truly do 
like you okay now 
clue number six look at their eye 
contact okay you know when you're 
talking to a stranger if their eye 
contact lingers just a little bit if 
their pupils are dilated if they're 
looking at you and they're kind of 
looking you up and down while they're 
talking to you chances are they think 
you're fine and they are checking you 
out right eye contact is like a 
superpower right the more we look at 
someone the more we want to see them and 
the more we hope that they see us so if 
somebody is really making heavy duty eye 
contact with you and doing all of the 
things that I talked about before this 
chances are they really do like you and 
when you find yourself locked eyeball to 
eyeball with somebody new and you feel 
that little surge of excitement chances 
are you might even emit a little bit of 
oxytocin which is the attack attachment 
hormone so suddenly you're feeling more 
and more attached to this person as they 
gaze at you you gaze at them you'll 
start to realize oh my gosh I think this 
person is really into me and look at 
where their eyes tend to travel it's 
very intimate sometimes when we're 
really interested in somebody notice how 
their eyes will drift all over your face 
their eyes might go to your neck their 
eyes might go to your torso to your 
chest and then come back up to your eyes 
those are very big signs if somebody is 
looking at you with that kind of intent 
that they are in fact ding ding ding 
into your business now 
clue number six okay 
are they attentive to you are they 
paying attention to you right ladies 
when you're with a guy right men are men 
are wired to protect and provide right 
are they putting their arm around you 
are they you know kind of getting close 
to you if you seem like you're cold and 
they're talking to you well they say to 
you you look like you're cold there's a 
giraffe would you like to move over to 
my side and they help you switch around 
maybe he offers you his coat but when 
they look like they are really attentive 
to you if you look at your watch and you 
look back up and they say oh my gosh are 
you missing something do you need to go 
do you need to if your phone goes off 
and you they'll say you know what do you 
need to take that text you need to take 
that call that must be important maybe 
that's your kid calling if somebody 
shows that they are liking you that they 
are caring about you that they're trying 
to protect you 
that person is most likely into you and 
again if you are interested in this 
person you make sure that you are doing 
the same okay be emotionally attentive 
to that person and try and take care of 
them and make the conversation more 
pleasant if their eyes are squinting 
you're like oh my gosh is the sun in 
your eyes do you want to move around a 
little bit is it bothering you here why 
don't you come stand over here closer to 
me I can move right when we show that we 
are concerned about somebody's 
well-being that we're watching their 
body language and they're watching ours 
we definitely like them 
and now Q clue number seven this is a 
really fun one and I've got lots of 
little things around this okay 
if somebody shows that they're what we 
call in the body language World preening 
okay preening meaning 
I'm sort of at attention and I'm trying 
to make myself look attractive okay and 
I want to draw attention to me I'm gonna 
tell you typically 
okay how a man looks when he's preening 
okay so if you're a woman looking for a 
man and you see a guy doing these things 
okay if he's straightening his tie while 
he's talking to you if he's smoothing 
his shirt out if he's tightening his 
belt if he's tucking his shirt and 
showing you that he wants to really look 
good for you right now also if his 
eyebrows goes up just a little bit it's 
like oh I'm shocked and audit you you 
are beautiful typically when our eyes go 
our eyebrows go up we're kind of really 
interested in somebody in a surprising 
way right and now another way men Preen 
a lot is they put their hands on their 
hips right they want to show you that 
they're powerful maybe they've got maybe 
you know it's not quite hands on their 
hips because they don't want to look 
like the cowboy but they've got their 
thumbs and their belt loops right now 
and also if he's kind of puffing his 
chest out a little bit sucking in his 
stomach shoulders are going back you 
know like he's gonna you know I am 
Superman I'm going to fight you I want 
to take care of you these are what we 
call he's trying to be the Macho Man 
right and if you see a man preening in 
this way he's definitely most likely 
into you right and if his legs okay 
again watching the legs if his legs are 
about call it a foot and a half apart 
maybe as wide as his shoulders and he 
squared off and he's looking at you he's 
kind of staking you out as his territory 
right he's kind he's preening he's 
saying I want to talk to you so these 
are typical preening signs that a man 
shows now men that are listening to this 
how do women Preen oh we Preen so 
obviously right what do we do we play 
with our hair we might twirl our hair 
around our fingers we might right run 
our fingers if you could see me right 
now through our hair just kind of 
fluffing it right kind of judging it 
over our shoulders putting it behind our 
ears and hair is our crown and glory and 
if we are touching our hair foofing our 
hair playing with it chances are we're 
like look at me look at my long feminine 
hair 
is it 
pretty I'm trying to ourselves so if 
we're passing our hedorana right again 
we're trying to get you to notice us and 
this is really interesting if a woman or 
really even a man exposes their wrists 
it's supposed to be it's a very 
vulnerable sign that tells us 
subconsciously that somebody is open 
right because it shows from prehistoric 
days the way our limbic brains are wired 
that there's no weapons in our hands 
right my hands are clean they're open if 
we're exposing our wrists it's kind of 
sexy it's kind of vulnerable it's kind 
of open that is what we do when we are 
really interested in somebody right and 
gentlemen or women interested in women 
if you're talking to a woman and she's 
Crossing and uncrossing her legs right 
she's drawing attention to herself look 
at my pretty legs one comes up the other 
goes down and you're watching those legs 
going whoo loving those games right and 
this is really fun like if women kind of 
are playing with their feet and they 
dangle their shoe they're definitely 
interested in you right like shoe comes 
off like oh why is she taking off her 
shoe while she's talking to me or when 
she sits down if she hikes up her skirt 
just 
a little 
attention to herself and her body right 
and and always 
she's 
speaking on Stitch she stress right 
he's probably as well so these are 
really Key signs that someone is into 
you if you see them doing these things 
and remember you can not only be the 
Sherlock Holmes and watch what they do 
to see if they're interested in you but 
you too can practice these body language 
tips you can mirror people you can show 
them that you're attentive to them you 
can ask great questions you can make 
sure that your feet are pointed at them 
have that sexy eye contact let your eyes 
kind of dangle all around their face 
Preen show this person that you're 
drawing attention to yourself smile 
while you're talking to them and I 
guarantee you're going to start to send 
out some mucho sexy charismatic Vibes so 
ladies and gentlemen I hope that you 
have enjoyed this episode make sure you 
save it make sure you download it so 
that you can listen to this anytime time 
you're in a position where you want to 
know if someone is into you or you want 
to demonstrate that you are into them so 
as always follow us on Instagram at 
smartdatingacademy for more tips come to 
our website 
smartdatingacademy.com to sign up for 
our free newsletter or book a 
consultation with us for 30 or 60 
minutes and as always we are here to 
serve you we can't wait to hopefully 
talk to you live face to face until next 
week have Rock and Body Language 
Sherlock Holmes it and let me know send 
me a message if you see somebody doing 
this to you because I can't wait to hear 
about it we'll see you again on the next 
episode next week thanks for listening 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
hi and welcome back to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast I'm so happy that you're 
here to listen to this conversation 
today because this is a conversation 
I've been dying to have since the minute 
I uttered the words or the phrase to 
myself I think I can do a podcast and 
today's guest is 
I'll tell you who she is because I can't 
hold back I'm terrible at keeping these 
kinds of Secrets I'm great at keeping 
other Secrets but it's my friend my 
compadre one of my soul sisters Nancy 
holla who is not only all of that that 
I've just told you but she is also a 
brand coach she is a strategist she is a 
strategist extraordinaire and a 
Storyteller she is an entrepreneur she 
is a former podcaster 
she is newly married you guys I mean 
like five minutes ago as in like 
September 
2025 minutes ago and just an awesome 
lover a lover of Life a mom and she's so 
relatable to so many of us and I'm 
delighted honored and humbled to have 
her here to have this chat with you to 
tell us where she was who she is and who 
she is today so Nancy thank you for 
joining me I'm so excited you're here 
Bella Bella I'm so happy for you I love 
this podcast already I love it for you 
you know I love everything about you and 
Smart dating Academy for good reason you 
have transformed my life but thanks for 
that great introduction it's so it's 
great to be here 
I am so glad you're here and you are in 
Washington state right now is that right 
in your beautiful Magical Home yeah I 
call it the tree house because I live in 
in the middle at the edge of a forest a 
Pine Forest I live in a place that I 
could never have imagined for myself 
um even two years ago but that's where 
true love has taken me so I live in a in 
a small town north of Seattle and it's 
very very pretty mountains and lakes and 
oceans and trees 
ugh and I need to correct you one thing 
you said I got married a minute ago 
September 2020 no it was September 2021. 
oh my God 2021 you were at the wedding 
my friend September 18th we got married 
in Cleveland Ohio 
and weird it not only did I get the year 
wrong yes it really was five minutes ago 
and September 18th of 2021 and Andy and 
I were so delighted to get the 
invitation in the mail and we were like 
yes yes yes we are coming and as Nancy 
and I were getting ready to record I 
said to Nancy I think it is the most fun 
wedding that I have ever been to it was 
filled with love and Magic but I'm gonna 
wait for us to get there chronologically 
for you so you can hear exactly where 
Nancy was but let me let me tell you in 
Nance jump in because I'm gonna tell the 
story I'm gonna set the stage as to how 
we met how we work together and what 
happened so probably I want to say it 
was 2018 maybe where somehow Nancy's 
best friend and podcasting partner 
Sherry Salada and I were connected 
through a common friend and we got on 
the phone together just connecting as 
two people do like oh tell me you tell 
me you what do you do oh great great 
great and so when Sherry was listening 
she's like wow some more dating Academy 
you teach people how to find love 
personal trainers that's amazing and you 
know both my business partner Nancy and 
I are both single I'm not really ready 
for the things that you do but Nancy is 
super adventurous and I think she would 
Dive Right into this so how about we 
test let's test the waters Bella come on 
the podcast let's do your very first 
meeting with Nancy live on the podcast 
you do your thing and then we'll figure 
out where it goes from there so Nance 
you and I met for the first time on 
podcast episode one not knowing where 
this journey was going to take us I know 
Sherry love to do that she loved it to 
Spring guests on me and where I was my 
my story was the focal point it was so 
so adorable and fun and I actually 
really liked it I I love that because I 
am adventurous and I was in a place in 
my life where I was I'd been single for 
a long time right so I had I got 
divorced when my kids were four and 
seven which is about you know 26 years 
ago so at the time that you and I met 
Bella I had been single for for many 
many years and of course like dating 
here and there but not ever with like a 
game plan in mind you know I thought 
like oh true love maybe one day I'll 
meet Keanu Reeves 
that's my fantasy yeah now that I live 
in L.A I'm Mary Keanu because of the 
time I was living in La 
um so I had very sort of pie in the sky 
and I I didn't really I wasn't really 
thinking about it in terms of a game 
plan and then you and I met on the 
podcast and the minute we started 
talking I am like who is this woman and 
what the heck is Smart dating Academy 
and she hails from my hometown of 
Chicago 
everything about you I was like yes like 
Law of Attraction yes 
okay and because I remember we we worked 
it out where I was going to be the test 
subject I I went to Chicago to have have 
the Smart dating Academy experience the 
whole kitten caboodle so I had the 
intake session we had that wonderful 
brunch we talked for several hours at 
the Four Seasons right yes and it was 
very amazing it was like this wonderful 
revealing conversation I felt like 
therapy and then the photo shoot which 
was incredible and so important really 
and that's something that I never I was 
like oh the photo shoot whatever so I'll 
get some good pictures maybe but the 
photo shoot was like key to success oh 
my gosh and just 
change your life and you know what's 
funny is you know pre-covered we used to 
meet everybody in person we had space at 
the Four Seasons and so what Nancy did 
is we sent her like we would for all of 
our you know Boutique coaching clients 
we sent her this dossier of paperwork to 
fill out these questionnaires which made 
her detail what was it like growing up 
what were you like what were your 
parents like what were they like with 
you tell us all about your significant 
relationships your marriage what What 
attracted you to this person what what 
ultimately broke you up what was his 
responsibility what was yours and going 
through this constellation of data 
points together then really what I call 
embarking on this new contract for what 
we call your high GHQ Guy high in good 
husband qualities and so 
um and so we took Nancy through we took 
you through this exercise of the people 
in your life that make you happiest 
right your elevator people and really 
focused on the qualities that elevate 
you in relationships and clarify that 
and then what are their Flags in dating 
right 
legs you know what honestly what I would 
say about it is it was a profound shift 
in Consciousness for me and you know 
anybody who's embarking on any kind of 
self-help in any area 
knows that shifting your Consciousness 
is part of the puzzle right so expanding 
your awareness being present with who 
you are your needs your wants your 
desires your Hang-Ups your triggers all 
that stuff and really being clear about 
the person you are and what you really 
want and so I've had a million 
conversations in my life with 
girlfriends about guys are you kidding 
me it's like the number one thing that 
we all talked about for many years 
especially when we were younger but I 
never had a conversation like the one 
that we had at the Four Seasons because 
it was strategic there was a there was a 
like like I said before a game plan 
there was a an outcome an end game in 
mind we I wanted to find true love and 
honestly I would tell you that just 
saying that making that declaration with 
you was super elevating as you say super 
liberating you know you don't have to 
hide behind it you don't have to act 
like oh well whatever maybe maybe not 
maybe it's not for me 
I just heard somebody say this I was in 
a Master Class A couple of uh days ago 
and one of the women said you know what 
I'd like to find somebody but you know 
you know whatever so probably not going 
to happen or and just Shrugged it off 
like it was nothing and I remember that 
I used to do that I saw her doing it I 
thought wow I used to do the same thing 
and it's a defense mechanism right 
because you're worried that you're not 
going to find it so you act like it's no 
big deal and and listen for some people 
maybe it's not but I would imagine that 
all the people tuning into this podcast 
have like an interest in this and I 
think it's amazing to be with somebody 
that you really truly love who loves you 
back 
and I think it's a an incredible life 
experience and I'm super glad you know 
like Super Glide isn't really cover it I 
am enormously grateful profoundly 
grateful that it has happened for me but 
it was it was there in that conversation 
and it was you know yes identifying the 
qualities the good husband qualities 
identifying the things I really want 
beyond funny you know tall tall because 
I'm six feet tall tall gotta be tall you 
know this that all those sort of 
superficial things 
um and really digging deep into well you 
know my my first husband was those 
things that didn't work out let's talk 
about why 
and so I started really exp my 
Consciousness was waking up but then 
those red flags 
I'm going to tell you what I would when 
I after meeting you I would go on dates 
and even I talked about the dates and I 
would think about the red flags this one 
time I took a little notebook with me 
and I and I and I put it in my purse and 
when I excuse myself to the ladies room 
I would like write down little notes 
because I didn't want to forget because 
I knew that I was going to have a 
follow-up with you and you know red 
flags are things that in the past what I 
realized I used to completely brush them 
aside 
I'd be like yeah oh he's only talking 
about himself he's not asking me any 
questions but gosh you know whatever 
maybe he's nervous you know oh that's 
okay maybe you know and you just kind of 
do that defensive sort of Playbook where 
you're trying to make room for this guy 
in your life even though you've only 
known him for 14 minutes and he's you 
know really ex there's he's covered in 
red flags but you're like oh well I can 
fix that you know I can work on that so 
I stopped doing that I really did I 
stopped I stopped ignoring the things 
that really bugged me and I started 
looking for things that I told you I 
wanted in those conversations like I 
told you I wanted somebody 
who's really interested in me and 
listened and asked questions and gave 
of himself you know real information not 
superficial stuff like a good a good 
talk the kind of talk I have with people 
that are important to me and I started 
noticing when that wasn't happening and 
I'm noticing when it did 
so it was it's like I think that you 
need to be armed with that information 
to date with a goal in mind you can't 
just go out there and be like oh well 
whatever will be will be 
because that's what I did for 20 years 
100 and I think that what so many of us 
do it's kind of the same thing over and 
over again when you're not armed with a 
new plan a new strategy it's like you 
think oh I know what a narcissist is 
I've read about some red flags and I'm 
ready to date and then you go out there 
and yet what we end up doing as human 
beings is we end up doing what's 
comfortable for US versus what's 
actually right so we find ourselves like 
oh I know that's right 
but I'm going to keep doing this instead 
because it's comfy it's kind of like if 
I want to lose 20 pounds I know I 
shouldn't shove the chocolate cake in my 
mouth but at a certain point I just do 
because it makes me feel good right it's 
comfort and so we date kind of like we 
eat the chocolate cake sometimes like it 
makes us it's like an instant hit and 
sometimes when people come in and they 
remind us of x's and Nancy I don't know 
I think you've probably like most people 
had these experiences where someone 
comes in and it's fast and it's Furious 
and they say all of the things and it's 
intoxicating and suddenly you feel like 
oh my God this is it and then three or 
four months later you're like oh my God 
this is not it and the red flags start 
to reveal themselves and you're like oh 
crap maybe I jumped into that too fast 
and maybe I swept those things under the 
rug but I'm sure that this resonates 
with you you dear listener as well as 
you Nancy as well as with me because I 
had my own dating patterns as well yeah 
yeah I mean you're right when you say 
the Mind seeks out the familiar right 
that's why it's so hard to change a 
habit like if you're a person who gets 
out of bed every day at eight and you 
really want to be the kind of person 
that gets up at six and gets a workout 
in it's not so much that you're 
physically unable to do it or or that 
you're that you really don't have no 
willpower it's that your mind seeks out 
familiar patterns so that's why changing 
habits is hard it is and you have to 
really set yourself up for success or 
else you'll make a million New Year's 
resolutions for example and then they 
all fall to the Wayside because none of 
that stuff is familiar you fall into Old 
patterns and the thing about dating 
other people is that 
you know once I see somebody if I'm 
sitting next to somebody who seems 
familiar to me laughs a lot talks a lot 
bombastic personality it's like oh my 
God we should get married you know 
within within an hour which has happened 
to me 
um and it's but all that really is is 
narcissism you know and I learned that 
is that that there what I'm looking for 
is I don't believe you know in order for 
me to feel validated by love it's got to 
be a big huge tidal wave coming at me 
and for that person who's the tidal wave 
that's a narcissist in action right 
because they need to be Central to you 
immediately so I didn't know any of that 
stuff I mean like listen who told me 
that when I was 18 nobody nobody nobody 
nobody tells you a damn thing when 
you're starting to date and it's it's 
and it's a rocky sort of landscape to 
try to navigate 
so right before I met the man after I 
after I met you and we started we 
started doing some of the dating I 
started doing you know dating in La 
which is not that easy for a woman in 
her 50s 
um and but I did it go on a couple of 
dates and nothing nothing stuck and then 
I moved to Seattle and right when I 
moved to Seattle I went home to 
Cleveland to see my family that's where 
I'm from and I ran into an old flame 
from high school oh my God and and this 
was like the light but like the thunder 
clouds I I it was like oh my god this is 
my love story This Is My Love Story how 
poetic I'm gonna write a novel on this 
here's the guy who I loved since I was 
in fourth grade and and I loved him all 
through high school he never looked at 
me twice he dated all my friends he was 
like the Big Man on Campus the football 
player the popular guy hilarious and and 
he never really I never really existed 
for him right and so here we are I mean 
I was 56 or same age in our 50s we meet 
up in our old Hometown purely 
happenstance and Sparks a big romance 
and you know he was all those things he 
was the same things that attracted me 
about my first husband it's like that 
that you know Larger than Life almost 
personality 
and 
um I fizzled out within you know three 
months because it was completely 
unsustainable and and none of and there 
were red flags I mean literally there 
are red flags popping up all over the 
place that I was adding away I was like 
ignore ignore ignore ignore ignore but 
then every once in a while I would get 
my Smart dating Academy handbook out you 
know that that folder that you give us 
and I would read my good husband 
qualities I would read my red flag list 
and I'm like oh brother I think I'm in 
deep water here so I realized you know I 
got to start edging out of this 
relationship and so I did I put the 
pause button on it and I was sitting on 
my couch one day and I I put my my toe 
back out into the dating water right 
went on hinge which is a dating app that 
I love and went on Match and won a 
couple others and I started you know 
okay slowly going on a couple more dates 
in Seattle 
and one day I had a date it was a 
Saturday I had a date schedule with a 
man for six o'clock drinks right down my 
street where I lived and I get a text 
message from the old flame out of the 
blue 
and he and it's like hey just checking 
in how are you and I thought oh you know 
what I'm gonna respond because I'm gonna 
be a kind good-hearted oh hi I'm fine 
how are you and then I get this long 
text message back about as long as 
almost as long as my arm 
so he had to seat up waiting because I 
know how slow he types and it's all 
about how amazing he's doing and who 
he's dating now and how he's also 
hanging out with all my old girlfriends 
from high school life couldn't be better 
and you know and so in other words 
designed to hurt me which it did and I 
felt like someone punched me in the 
stomach so I sat down on the couch and I 
had this moment Bella 
that it's like this was to me the big 
Turning Point 
I said to myself if you want a different 
love story you have to look for a 
different kind of man 
and that and and that day one hour from 
that moment I had this date down the 
street and I did not want to go because 
I was not happy but I'm like no you're 
going you're going to do the Bella 
Gandhi you're going to go into the 
bathroom you're going to put your Berry 
lip on you're gonna fluff your hair out 
you're gonna put your dating uniform 
right at a thing that I wore for every 
single first date it was like of course 
it works it's black it's this it's that 
you know that's my dating uniform threw 
it on and I went down the street 
and they're sitting there was David 
Bruce 
the man who is now my husband my beloved 
and he is everything that those other 
guys are not and I mean that really like 
you know lovely quiet introspective 
attentive loving kind giving you know 
interested 
um funny but like in a in a quiet funny 
way and and you know it was it's to me 
that like that that is the indication of 
a completely changed Consciousness and 
then an immediate manifestation like it 
can't it can't get faster than that it 
was 60 minutes 
that I found him 
and one one day likes another and here's 
the thing too there was never a moment 
when I was left wondering oh my God is 
he gonna call me is he gonna did he have 
a fun I don't know you know is he gonna 
because literally you know that was 
great I'd love to see you again that was 
a Saturday night Monday he came down 
again and this is a two-hour drive from 
Bellingham where where he lived down to 
Seattle 
you know oysters on Monday again right 
down the street from me and then then a 
date that you know two days later and 
then he's going out of town but right 
when he comes back and can we go to this 
thing and can we go whale watching and 
so there was never a moment where I felt 
overwhelmed because it was nicely paced 
and super mellow no love bombing no love 
bombing at all but just a steady slow 
and steady slow and steady wins the race 
my dad used to say and just a slow and 
steady like always the interest always 
the attentiveness no love bombing no 
weirdness 
um no sex 
because because of your instruction 
Bella Gandhi say that again in case in 
case you were driving and you didn't 
hear that no sex and that's and that's a 
that's a key because also I think that I 
think that what sometimes we miss as 
women is that guys aren't always ready 
for that either right away you know it's 
not like every man is so voraciously 
sexual at every moment of the day like 
and I think that for some guys that can 
be overwhelming too too yes it can be 
scary intimacy can be a lot you know it 
is a lot and it and it has to be timed 
correctly 
so I remember you gave me this image or 
she might be with Sherry when we were 
talking because we talked about you 
endlessly back in the day when we first 
met you of like you're like Doris I'm 
like Doris Day with my little kitten 
heels and my lipstick and my purse and I 
I give them a nice little uh good good 
night at the door and I go into my 
apartment like it's done you know I'm 
not jumping into bed with anybody and 
and that's why one of the strategies to 
see a couple people at the same time and 
sleep with no one and wait until you're 
in a monogamous committed relationship 
so I took that very literally and I 
actually said to David 
um I don't want us to make love until 
we're in love so for me that was a huge 
leap of faith to be able to be brave 
enough to say those words 
because you know in my my inner critic 
was like oh my God what if he's thinking 
I've never fallen in love with you you 
know what are you talking about girl but 
I said it anyway because I was like I'm 
gonna say my truth and this man is worth 
it and this relationship is worth it so 
I mean all those little moments Bella 
were really fueled by the confidence and 
Clarity I gained working with you and 
shifting that Consciousness you know 
this isn't a free-for-all okay this is 
my life my love life is my life is part 
of a big part of my life this isn't a 
game you know this isn't uh oh well 
whatever will be will be no I don't know 
part of my life that way I don't 
approach my business that way I didn't 
approach raising my children that way I 
don't approach my life as if it's a 
catch-all whatever happens I have goals 
and I have maps to get those goals right 
I have I have a purpose and so I really 
woke up to that and I was like you know 
what my love life is important I want to 
find true love I want to get married to 
somebody I deeply love who deeply loves 
me I want to grow old with this person 
that's what I want 
and you know honestly it's the clarity 
that that that illuminated the path for 
me and here I am 
married yay and to such a lovely guy and 
here's as you were talking it brought me 
back to so many great moments from the 
podcast and our work together the 
majority of it was remote and but there 
was this one 
time where we on a lark we wanted to 
record a couple of different episodes 
and I flew to LA and we met at Sherry's 
house and we were recording in her back 
recording room behind her kitchen and I 
remember the three of us were all miked 
up and and we were having this 
conversation and I don't know if you 
remember this moment but because it's 
come true for you is I remember saying 
the kind of man that I imagine you with 
Nance is he's gonna be this guy you're 
gonna be up on stage and you're gonna be 
wearing sequins and you're going to have 
a mic in your hands and you're going to 
be talking about something and because 
this is your event and you look gorgeous 
and the man that you're with is going to 
be in a tuxedo in the back of the room 
and he's going to Elbow the guy next to 
him and say look who I got can you 
believe that 
and it was this moment and I think we 
were all teary at that moment and like 
voice is quivering and I remember 
being at your wedding and looking at 
that guy wearing a tuxedo up in the 
front talking about you into the 
microphone and how he was the luckiest 
guy in the world I'm like this came 
full circle here he is and she's up 
there it may not be sequins but it's in 
this gorgeous white wedding dress and it 
was just it was this full circle moment 
like you deserved that guy we could see 
that that was the guy that you were 
going to be with and here he is 
September 18th of 2021 saying this is 
the best moment of my life the best 
decision of my life the best woman of my 
life like it was just amazing and I 
couldn't be happier for you and to have 
witnessed that truly after we manifested 
that on the podcast we did we manifested 
it together girl I'm telling you I mean 
and he is like that he is like this 
tireless supporter this True Believer in 
in me in our love and our future I mean 
it's a beautifully 
secure lovely feeling and you know I I 
honestly I would I wouldn't have got 
there on my own I wasn't I wasn't clear 
about what I really wanted and I wasn't 
brave enough to say what I wanted 
So speaking of that which brings me to a 
funny memory because being with you is 
like taking this beautiful walk down 
memory lane over the last few years say 
gosh how did we get here but if I 
remember right when we first started 
online dating 
we were talking about okay like Nancy 
says she's tall and she's gorgeous and 
she's six feet tall and I'm envious 
every day I would love to be six feet 
tall right but it's like okay what do I 
do and in the beginning I remember you 
saying you know what this is my thing 
everybody's got a thing and he has to be 
at least six foot one Bella and that and 
we would go through your inbox together 
and we're on Match and I'm logged in as 
Nance and Nance is logged in as Nance 
and she's in LA and I'm here in Chicago 
and I was like oh my God look at this 
guy and we were looking at men that had 
emailed her she's like no he's six feet 
let's move on I'm like but but look at 
look at this message and look at nope 
he's done and so now tell us what 
happened and how David Bruce made it 
through those filters Nancy holla you 
know okay that's funny and you are a 
hundred percent right and all I can do 
to make myself feel okay about that is 
the outcome was great but I probably 
passed passed away past you know by a 
lot of great guys because that's a silly 
thing I mean you know listen we all do 
have something but we all and that was 
my thing but it was but it wasn't my 
thing like it turns out it wasn't it's 
not my thing at all it turns out that 
that was a childhood thing that I never 
really challenged or explored because I 
always felt awkward being the tallest 
girl I was 5 11 in fourth grade I was 
taller than the football coach in fourth 
grade and you know like we all have some 
trauma stuff from childhood and that's 
that was mine you know I felt like 
awkward about my physicality and so I 
needed a guy to be like enormously tall 
so I could feel like oh bundled up in 
his arm a little yeah yeah I mean the 
whole thing is I think of it now and I 
laugh but that was real for me then well 
so David on his on his hinge app 
um he listed himself as six feet tall 
which you know I will lovingly say he is 
not but 
he's like well he thinks he is and I'm 
like I assure you you're not but that's 
okay because I love you and it's fine 
and guys always think they're taller 
than they are okay 
um and so he he listed his height at six 
feet tall but his pictures were in my 
opinion so Charming because they they 
were so um low low res and low like 
funny you know and not I mean my 
pictures were the Bella Gandhi 
professional you know photo Suite of one 
was this and you know different outfits 
and Berry lip and fluffy hair and oh I'm 
just leaning over this bar having a 
whiskey what oh you caught me I caught 
me in my gorgeous chambray shirt and my 
perfect jeans that are hugging my hips 
just when it was 105 degrees outside 
so hot 
um but his photos were you know not that 
um but it was but he was funny and he 
was like there wasn't here's what I 
liked it was minimal it wasn't like he 
was trying to explode on the page like 
oh my God there's everything about me 
and I'm so funny and quippy and clever 
and there was something about him and I 
liked his I liked his expression and I 
liked his I liked his smile and I like 
just liked him goodbye and then Sherry 
came for a visit 
to Seattle and we were sitting on my 
couch and I had um I think that I'd 
already been on one date with them and 
and she looked at his profile and she's 
like oh my God he's so hunky and I'm 
like is he and you know like when one of 
your girlfriends thinks that your your 
guy is cute you're like oh okay okay let 
me lean into that and then I and then I 
mentioned that um he's a he was a former 
professional hockey player and you know 
Sherry's big into sports she's you know 
a very proud alumni of uh University of 
Iowa go Hawks and she loves all that Big 
Ten stuff and she loves all the sports 
stuff and I'm not that way you know just 
because it's not my interest but so 
she's like oh my God he is this hunky 
Canadian former professional hockey 
player and so and I'm like oh my God he 
is so cute right right right look at him 
and I'll tell you something our first 
date our very first day we were sitting 
at a at the at the bar having a drink 
and um and I didn't know how tall he was 
because he was seated and I I signed in 
right away so he didn't get a chance to 
stand up so I didn't know and you know 
I'm like oh brother I hope he's you know 
like I hope this works out as I'm 
drinking my Chardonnay nursing my 
Chardonnay then I find out because we're 
saying where do you live where do you 
live I was new to Seattle so I thought 
Bellingham was a neighborhood in Seattle 
because Seattle has a lot of 
neighborhoods like Queen Anne Fremont 
you know they all have names 
so I said well how long did it take you 
to get here you know two hours 
two hours hours two hour drive one way 
and so then I thought oh my God here it 
is seven o'clock on a Saturday night 
this guy is gonna he's gonna drive four 
hours round trip I should at least say 
so I broke my rule because my jading 
rule was one drink and then go and then 
see if there's a second date 
but so so I said would you like to have 
something to eat and he said I would 
love to take you to dinner 
so I said okay listen there's a really 
cute French Bistro right around the 
corner let's go there so we got up and I 
noticed that he was shorter than I was 
and I was like okay all right Nancy just 
chill out so so far this guy is nice and 
you just said to yourself you need to 
look for a different kind of man you 
just said those words two hours ago on 
your couch in tears 
so just chill out and have the date so 
we go to the French Bistro we're sitting 
across from each other and we proceed to 
have this lovely 
you know as as romantic as the dinner 
can be with two people who just met but 
there was definitely a connection there 
was nothing you know sexual or anything 
it was just sweet and lovely and cute 
and funny and then we're walking to the 
car because he drove us there around the 
corner so we so I he was driving me back 
to my car and I noticed again oh my he's 
really he is shorter than I am and I 
thought well you have a decision to make 
like here's a really nice guy who 
clearly wants to see you again what are 
you gonna do Nancy what are you gonna do 
are you gonna really not date somebody 
because of two inches of height 
and so I just decided to ignore it and 
now it's so hilarious to me that I would 
ever have thought that way like that I 
would pass up 
this kind of love for something so 
superficial and my friends in Chicago 
Betsy and Scott and and Scott's a little 
bit shorter than Betsy and and they've 
been married forever happily married for 
like 25 30 years and bestie's like oh 
girl like look at Scott 
look at Scott and we I met them I love 
Scott like look at him like you think 
that I would pass this up for for you 
know for two inches of height 
and I thought to myself you're 
absolutely right so it's good you know 
there's we all have a hang up probably 
not we all but many people do we all do 
as a dating coach I can say what you're 
saying okay correct we all have a hang 
up we all have a hang up but you know 
what I would say I would invite everyone 
to explore it you know some things are 
deal breakers you know like maybe you 
don't want to date somebody who smokes 
cigarettes like okay some things might 
be deal breakers but look explore your 
hand explore it and really ask yourself 
why and ask yourself where it comes from 
and for me it comes from some fourth 
grade playground insult you know what I 
mean that stuck with me like like a 
cloud and Shake It Off man because I 
think a lot of Hang-Ups are about about 
that are about the unresolved stuff from 
from childhood or unresolved stuff from 
former relationships and if you explore 
it and really look honestly at it 
and maybe look Beyond it that's all I'm 
going to say not everybody can do it but 
if you can I think you'll be surprised 
because guess what happens your dating 
pool opens up I mean guess what if I'm 
if I'm gonna say okay well I'm only 
dating guys who are six three 
uh who are in their late 50s who are 
this that you know what I mean like all 
of a sudden your dating pool shrinks 
tremendously tremendously tremendously 
and I think a conversation you and I had 
because I love numbers and stats is that 
only 12 of the U.S male population is 
over six feet tall right and so and I'm 
sure I didn't Levy that on you right 
away because that would usually make 
most people cry especially when they're 
when they're hideous and they're like he 
must be over six feet tall and I'm 
thinking okay if you put a hundred guys 
in a room even 100 age-appropriate men 
so let's say at that time 50 to 60 years 
old and if I said okay there now I need 
everybody over that's under six feet 
tall to leave the room that would mean 
close your eyes and imagine 88 of those 
guys would depart the room and we would 
be left with 12 guys just 8 based on one 
parameter and that's height and then 
when you lump in well I'd really like 
him to at least have a bachelor's degree 
or a master's degree because I have a 
master's degree right 17 of Americans 
have a master's degree 34 have an 
undergraduate degree so it's like how we 
slice and dice and I'm not saying this 
to demotivate people but it's really to 
like Nancy's saying think about for real 
real real what your deal breakers or 
your deal makers are and then think 
about that because with every inch that 
you open up your parameters on height 
with every year that you open up with 
age on both ends older younger with 
every Mile in your ZIP code that you 
widen you may just let in the love of 
your life and you don't know and Nancy's 
is not the only story where oh my gosh 
he wasn't in my parameters or he said he 
was 60 but maybe he was six feet tall in 
a really big hair day whatever that was 
right but it's like I've I've had 
clients that have told me my age limit 
was set to 60 right and then one day I 
went to 61 and I got that first last 
message in my inbox and that was the 
love of her life right and so really 
thinking about those things right I you 
know how important and you can probably 
answer this question now better than 
anybody I ask it rhetorically how 
important is blank to long-term 
happiness how important is height to 
long-term happiness it's like okay how 
right and you and what I love and this 
this is a part of the story Nance I 
didn't even know I didn't know and I saw 
you at your wedding I didn't know David 
was shorter than you I thought you were 
the same height and so she's laughing if 
you could see this video right now and I 
thought and I've told this story since 
I've been at the wedding and they're the 
same height and now she's telling me and 
you you're hearing it first that he's 
actually a little bit shorter and she's 
okay with it and this is the most 
Soulful easy elevator yummy love that 
she's ever had in her life and isn't 
that amazing yeah well you know yeah I I 
love what you just said about you know 
you you you look at all your parameters 
and if you can open each one up a little 
bit it's like opening up the floodgates 
right like so if you're saying I'll only 
date somebody within 20 miles 
well of where I live right now well 
guess what Bellingham is 90 miles from 
Seattle 
I didn't have that as a parameter set I 
I think unthinkingly I just didn't have 
it if I had I mean God you know and now 
I live here I was like okay I'm I'm a 
girl who's lived in Chicago La Seattle I 
thought I was a big city person forever 
I live in a little village a cute it's 
adorable I love it but I mean what I 
love about it is that I am living here 
with David I would live anywhere I said 
in my wedding vows you did I would love 
anywhere to be with you and that is the 
absolute truth and he feels the same way 
if I said Okay I want to move back to 
Chicago he would be on it in a heartbeat 
it doesn't matter as long as we're 
together but things like you know you 
know height or you know you know do you 
know what deal breaker should be deal 
breaker should be unkindness yes cruelty 
um you know intolerance 
right withholding affection like those 
are deal breakers deal breakers aren't 
height or degrees or you know bank 
accounts I mean you can't yeah in the 
Quest for true love you just have to do 
a little bit more magical thinking I 
think a little bit more you know yummy 
like like bring bring me the yummy and 
and whatever package that person comes 
in uh you know I'm gonna be open up 
enough to explore that 
you know that good feeling 
and this story just came to my mind from 
your wedding and to what exactly what 
Nancy says these are the deal breakers 
you should have people that are 
inconsistent unreliable don't care about 
you or your life Nancy's son Alex who's 
this hunky lovely military well-spoken 
all that is good first time I laid my 
eyes on the kid and I'd heard he was 
amazing and then he got up and gave a 
speech at his mom's wedding that brought 
everybody to tears into their knees and 
he tells this story about you know I'm 
this big military guy and I was out and 
I'm probably telling the story 
incorrectly so tell me and and Alex was 
out somewhere and he had been skiing or 
snowshoeing and he gets back and he 
realizes that he lost his car keys and 
it could be anywhere in this vastly 
snowy terrain that he was in so he's 
like like every good military Soldier I 
did what any of them would do I called 
my mom 
yeah exactly I called my mom as a 28 
year old naval officer I did what you 
know I did what anyone I called my mom 
that was so funny I died laughing and 
the story and what he did was talk about 
this amazing man that his mom was with 
and David jumps in the car brings an 
extra set of keys he drives five hours 
in a snowstorm five hours in a snowstorm 
one way because because Alex was in 
Whistler which is in Canada 
so we had to go across the border he had 
to first go to Anacortes to get Alex's 
spare spare keys which is an hour drive 
and then he had to drive up Whistler 
Mountain in a terrible snowstorm 
and never but the thing here's the thing 
I'm telling it like that he wouldn't 
tell it like that he thinks it's funny 
he would he didn't even blink an eye 
he's like and I said I'll do it and he 
goes no you're not doing it I'm gonna do 
it because I was I was getting over a 
cold he goes you're staying here stay on 
the couch I'm gonna do it drives up to 
Whistler Mountain meets Alex at a place 
hands him the keys 
and Alex and then and then stays 
overnight at his sister's house and then 
drives back and Alex texted me he goes 
that guy is a chief he's a good guy and 
I said I know and we were just dating he 
hadn't even met Alex yet 
I like I I like I have Goosebumps your 
kids right who would do that you know I 
opened a single mother for most of my 
kids lives right divorce when they were 
four and seven and and you know nobody 
ever lived with us I was a single mom I 
dated yes but you know kept that sort of 
out of the out of the radar of the kids 
until if I you know I was waiting to 
meet someone special and I never did 
when they were younger 
so you know as a single mother who's 
sort of shouldered it all on her own 
right for so many years to have somebody 
step in and immediately take some of the 
weight right like take some of the 
responsibility because out of love for 
me he didn't even know Alex yet now Ian 
Alex are super close he and my daughter 
Olivia are very close there's so much 
love and there's so much you know back 
and forth just between them and but in 
the early days he didn't know the kids 
but he was there like I I can't even 
articulate what that was like for me and 
how um totally life-changing that was oh 
my God I'm gonna cry because it felt 
like it was a long time just me 
you know and and then all of a sudden I 
had a partner and we weren't even 
engaged yet you know he was just my 
boyfriend and all of a sudden they have 
a partner who's gonna drive up a 
mountain to help my kid 
I mean oh my God I get I get emotional 
with that story Alex tells a story in 
such a funny way and such a sweet and 
daring way but for me it was you know it 
was it was a pretty big moment it's the 
real deal and so much so that your 
wedding was in September and we're now 
in February by the time you're listening 
to this and the story just it's like I'm 
looking at Nancy and having this 
conversation and the neurons started 
firing we didn't plan to tell the story 
but this is the story of this is you 
know I always say we focus so much on 
these quantitative things right like 
what does he do what how much money does 
he make does he make more than me what 
does he look like how tall is he what's 
his education and yet you can see here 
that there's something you can't teach 
character 
right and here's this man that hasn't 
even met your kids and was like I'm 
gonna drive five hours and I'm gonna 
bring him this key because that's who I 
am you didn't have to say hey could you 
go he's like you lay in bed and heal 
I've got this and he didn't even think 
probably for two seconds about it 
because that is who he is and this is 
what a true partnership feels like and 
if you're listening to this and you 
think oh my gosh I can't even believe it 
this sounds like a fairy tale this is 
what this is what exists and this is 
what can exist for you when you start to 
prioritize different things in your 
relationships and you don't ignore the 
red flags and you look for the green 
flags and you look for somebody who 
loves you for you and will love all of 
the pieces of your life because they are 
yours David didn't know Alex David 
probably had seen a photo of Alex and 
jumps in the car and says Alex is your 
son and therefore he's important to me 
so I'm gonna go bail him out of this 
right and that is like oh my God that is 
the kind of love like the story that I 
told you earlier I imagine someone who's 
going to be like look who I got elbowing 
the guy in the tuxedo and she's up on 
the stage wearing sequins and then this 
is what that person can do and will do 
for you and you don't even have to ask 
that person yeah 
yes yes it is it is there is a fairy 
tale equality to it I mean honestly 
that's one of the reasons I decided to 
wear a big poofy wedding dress on my 
wedding I was gonna wear you know like a 
svelt little red carpet sequence number 
but the closer we got to the wedding day 
I was just so filled up with this this 
like wow you know this is really 
happening I'm really getting married you 
know at my at my lifelong friends home 
in Cleveland Heights beautiful backyard 
wedding 50 of the most important people 
in the world to me 
and this guy who is like it is is so 
easy to love him and it's so easy for 
him to love me it Feels So effortless I 
didn't know it could be like that so I 
decided to lean fully into bride mode I 
got a big old poofy cupcake of a dress 
and I had the most fun I felt like a 
princess I did and I still feel that way 
I mean honestly I look back at the 
wedding and think there was a reason it 
was so fun and playful and joyful and 
dance filled you know and everybody and 
hollering because it was just there was 
so much joy you know and everybody was 
so I could feel everyone's happiness for 
us I could feel it you know it's no 
small thing to find true love in the 
middle of your life in your mid 50s it's 
I think that's a big deal honestly it's 
a huge deal I do I think that you know 
you get to a certain point you've been 
single for a long time and you're almost 
conditioned to think it's not gonna 
happen to me I know for sure that's what 
I felt 
and so to find true love at that stage 
in life feels like we gotta celebrate 
this 
we gotta celebrate this man so that's 
that's what the wedding felt like to me 
and marriage at this point how does it 
feel oh my god well marriage feels like 
um 
I'll tell you if well here I'll tell you 
something it feels like the safest place 
I've ever been in my life oh it's like I 
feel like I've never been safer in my 
life not as a child not as a young adult 
I've never been safer I feel zero 
anxiety about anything 
really I can honestly say that I don't 
feel I don't feel anxious I don't feel 
worried you know I I'm you know I'm 
always going to be a little bit 
concerned for the kids you know make 
sure everybody's safe drive safely and 
this and that but I'm not anxious and 
I'm not I'm not you know wondering when 
the other shoe is going to drop that 
feeling of I don't know what the future 
holds because I do know what the future 
holds it holds this beautiful happiness 
and this loving 
partnership in this marriage and I'll 
tell you that 
um this year in my business I decided to 
take 
my business in a new directions I 
decided to offer more things online 
brand therapy lab a podcast lab online 
courses in addition to the one-on-one 
work I do I invested money into my 
business I built a new website I I 
started new things and and here's why 
because I felt so grounded and secure 
like I just feel like there's nothing we 
can't do together he and I you know and 
now he's my business manager he takes 
care of invoicing we can talk about 
business together and I just don't feel 
like I'm going it alone on every single 
front I feel so safe and alone you know 
I'm like hell like I feel held 
I mean and even if there's a we spat 
like I was mad at him this morning 
because I thought he was being grumpy 
about something and I'm not really 
grumpy I'm trying to be quiet because 
you're still sleeping he gets up really 
early and he he makes me coffee every 
morning and he puts it in a metal carafe 
and he puts it on my bedside table so 
that I come with a cut and empty cup so 
that the minute I wake up it's a thermal 
carafe so if he makes it at six o'clock 
and I wake up at eight it's still piping 
hot and Super Fresh 
and I'm like you know we were talking 
for a minute I'm like I think you were 
grumpy and then you know he's like I'm 
sorry if I seem grumpy honey I I was 
just trying to be quiet and then I 
thought to myself in the okay everybody 
said and I said you know baby forget it 
you're not grown thank you for the 
coffee I'll see you today at five and I 
love you very much like those small 
things are just it's so easy to brush 
away because the bigger picture is so 
solid that's that's the thing I think 
like when you're in a contentious 
relationship all the little stuff all 
that just gets like yes 
overwhelming because you're mad about a 
lot of things you're mad about big 
things you're mad that you don't feel 
seen and heard and appreciated so the 
small things like you were you were 
making noise this morning when I was 
trying to sleep that seems big that 
seems indicative of you don't care about 
my feelings right yes take on these big 
monstrous meaning like oh well the way 
you spoke to me means you don't respect 
me you know and it's not like nothing 
can be small and guess what when you're 
living with somebody for year after year 
after year 
you're gonna say the wrong thing 
sometimes you're gonna do the wrong 
thing you're gonna get into each other's 
nerves but when you're truly safe and 
rounded you can brush that nonsense 
aside right you can brush it aside 
because you know that there is so much 
love that there's so much affection that 
there's so much true loyalty that you 
don't have to worry about the small 
stuff that's just like human 
the dust of human life you can sweep it 
away 
I think that is the greatest thing that 
is my my favorite thing is that 
regardless we're fine we're great we're 
more than fine we're happy 
and I just full body Goosebumps when you 
said I've never felt safer in my entire 
life from childhood until now and safety 
is so underrated and feeling secure 
right and like you said kindness when 
you're with the right person I mean I'll 
Andy and I'll be married 25 years this 
may and we probably have little 
arguments I don't know how many times a 
week a lot right we're raising two 
teenagers together we've been together 
for basically our entire lives we were 
like children when we got married but 
it's okay conflict is okay with the 
right person you navigate through the 
conflict and because you're not worried 
you don't see me as important as another 
paper cut that's ultimately gonna you 
know hit as deep as that Stab Wound it's 
like no I know that you're good and I'm 
good and we're good so this is just like 
a little breeze of wind okay and let's 
move on and then and being able to 
navigate conflict even when it could be 
more serious conflict which is fine if 
you put any two human beings together 
for a long enough amount of time there 
will be conflict or somebody is giving 
in but it's about how you agree to 
navigate through that conflict right you 
put boundaries around what you can say 
and what you can't say and one of our 
rules is when you have conflict can this 
conflict get our relationship to a 
better place and if so then it was 
totally worth it you look at it as a 
stair step up like yes we're going to 
have friction that's part of being human 
and part of being in a partnership but 
can we make us better and take the next 
step forward I love that Bella that's 
really smart that's really smart because 
and you know what here's I love that for 
you too as an extension even of your 
brand because after you find true love 
you got you want to keep true love you 
know you want to keep it you want to 
sustain it you don't want to throw it 
away and you know I love the idea of 
having boundaries about and and having a 
goal of you know we're uh we're together 
and I remember I remember saying to him 
once you know the only thing that 
matters really is that you and I are 
good because when we're good 
everything's good exactly and you know 
because there's nothing we can't handle 
because we're a team we love each other 
we're two very very capable adults who 
dig each other so much and we love our 
kids we love our friends and family so 
it's almost we're good everything's good 
when we fall apart all that other stuff 
falls apart too so it's like tending to 
that and but also it's it's it's easy 
because it's great you know it's like I 
really do love this guy so much and he's 
really madly in love with me too and I 
know it so nothing that happens is a 
deal breaker now no it's easily so it's 
it's it's it's it's good and but here's 
the thing 
I have that Foundation because of the 
work I did with you again I come back to 
that shift in Consciousness that real 
awareness and Awakening of what's 
important to me and what kind of 
relationship do I ultimately not want 
not like how tall is he and how cute is 
he what is the relationship I want what 
is the feeling I want every day and that 
is the start of it when you're dating so 
everybody who's listening who's dating 
think about yourself you know five years 
from now married to one of these people 
what what do you want to feel like 
right what do you want to feel like when 
you wake up what do you want to feel 
like when you go to bed how do you want 
to be able to talk to this person how do 
you want to be able to be held by this 
person and you're right when you say 
safety is so underrated and I would 
totally never said that in a million 
years because you're right you know you 
started by saying I'm adventurous I am 
I'm like a risk taker I've been a 
business for myself for 30 years and I 
always thought of myself as this free 
spirit and very adventurous and I never 
thought to myself I really want to feel 
safe yeah but now that I feel safe it is 
such a delicious feeling it's like the 
basis for everything else I can do 
creatively spiritually professionally 
because now that I'm grounded in in 
marriage safety love safety like the 
sky's the limit 
so it's I it's really cool I mean I just 
sort of turned that on its head it's a 
great one 
man and and 
to have that kind of love fuels all of 
this other Beauty in your life and like 
Nancy was saying she's pivoted this 
business that she has and you guys if 
you see her website it's beautiful and I 
know so many women that I'm in touch 
with that I coach probably listening to 
this either you have your own business a 
small business a mid-sized business or 
you have this side hustle and you're you 
want to make this your purpose you want 
to take this but you don't know how to 
tell your story I just have to tell you 
I've worked with a lot of people but if 
you want to check out Nancy's work and 
you can tell just by listening to her on 
this podcast how she can take the 
nuggets out and get to the heart of the 
story she's really truly brilliant so I 
would encourage you we'll have the 
website is it Nancy hollow.com yeah 
Nancy 
and check out her website and Nance I 
just have to end with one quick story 
about you from our photo studio which I 
know those of you who have followed me 
on Instagram and if you don't follow us 
at smartdating Academy but you know 
about the berry lip so when Nancy came 
into our photo studio I came in there 
and I'm like and she's like listen I 
know you wanted color and clothes but I 
really wear a lot of black and you know 
and I was like okay that's fine these 
are all great clothes we can make do 
with this and she sits down in the 
makeup chair and the makeup artist like 
we're done I'm like you need to pop her 
lip and Nancy said what do you mean pop 
her lip like this is the lip color that 
I wear and I said no no for our photos 
we will pop your lip you need to have a 
brighter lipstick on they said we do 
What's called the berry lip she's like 
what is the berry lip I said look at my 
lipstick right now right I may not have 
a lot of eye makeup on or a lot of 
makeup on in general but that lip is 
always pop because the science says that 
when men look men are viscerally 
attracted to lips that pop red brighter 
pink Berry she's like I don't know I'm 
like you're in our photo studio and I 
love you and I say this with one but 
we're going to do a berry lip on you and 
that and those photos and the berry lip 
and the berry lip then became something 
that you loved oh my God the berry lip I 
mean that's something we couldn't stop 
talking about on the podcast and the 
Very and I'll tell you what those photos 
pop because the berry lift because the 
smile is so is so front and center and I 
was a nude lip girl for forever you know 
and and those right lips became our 
signature so then Sherry would do a 
bright red lip and I would do a bright 
Berry lip and we had I mean we were 
working with beauty counter that makeup 
company and and there so we're talking 
about the bare lip we sold the berry lip 
on our website 
um I'm a big believer in it honestly and 
I have so many Berry lipsticks now you 
are the queen of the lipstick so your 
lipstick does not move like she can put 
lips but I could put lipstick on at 
seven in the morning and do like five TV 
show appearances and run around town at 
seven o'clock at night she's got the 
same lipstick on and it looks amazing 
I'm like I don't know you're like I 
don't know what magic shellac you're 
using but it is unbelievable the way 
your lipstick stays and it's so pretty 
and you have such a nice smile but see 
you know what else the berry lift does 
it gives you confidence because when you 
have a big bright lip you want to smile 
you don't want to just sit there with a 
pouch you want to you want to show a big 
smile a joyous smile 
that's a good vibe it is the great Vibe 
so 
put on your Berry lip if you're 
listening to this and you're dubious 
about it I'm just going to challenge you 
and every couple of months we do a berry 
lip Challenge on Instagram where we have 
people send their photos and how their 
Berry lip made them feel and I put you 
in my story so we may or may not be 
running it when you're listening to this 
episode but I want you to put on a berry 
lip just find one how good is CVS go to 
Walgreens I'm not saying go to you know 
you know go to Neiman's and buy a 100 
red lip that's going to end up in your 
cosmetic graveyard that's not what I'm 
saying like go buy one of those 
Maybelline five dollar sticks I mean go 
to my Instagram live you guys I did a 
whole 45 minute episode on the berry lip 
and I put on like eight different ones 
to show you guys from three dollars to a 
hundred dollars like you can do this and 
then we ran the challenge so do the 
fairy lip and it will just it it's like 
you know you're kind of like this French 
woman it's like a little femme fatale 
like you can be a little your hair can 
be a little like must up you can be 
wearing black but you put that red lip 
on and suddenly you're like I'm kind of 
badass I know it is it is a badass 
feeling it really is and and a berry lip 
with with sunglasses is like a great 
look oh it's super hard makeup at all no 
and even like you can throw your hair at 
a top knot it doesn't matter it looks 
very chic messy buns sunglasses Berry 
left done very chic very wow Nance if 
you had I mean you've been so incredibly 
generous with your time and I'm grateful 
if you had all day you know that I know 
I love you so much if you could leave 
you know our if you could leave people 
with you know just any Gem of 
inspiration of advice like people that 
are thinking love isn't going to happen 
for me like do you have anything you can 
tell them like that can keep people 
fighting the good fight walking the walk 
running the marathon of Love 
yeah I would say no number one be be 
brave enough and believe in yourself 
enough and believe in your own happiness 
enough to say what you want and I think 
that the truth is as humans most of us 
want to find love I think we'll go that 
way yeah part of our destiny and I think 
that it's out there for all of us it 
really is out there waiting for each one 
of us and so it starts though with being 
brave and saying it and not saying maybe 
or one day or maybe it's not for me but 
but making a declaration and saying I 
will I will find true love and and then 
follow that heart you know follow that 
that that Vision Follow that dream and 
you have to tell yourself that story if 
you're like me you were telling yourself 
all kinds of other stories 
self-defeating stories so you have to 
look at your story you have to look at 
your at your limitations that you've 
placed on yourself that you don't need 
you got to be really brave and you got 
to go for it and I I like you I I'm I'm 
a total optimist about it now Bella and 
I know that that's one of the first 
things you said to me that you're a 
total Optimist a psychotic Optimist 
psychotic Optimist yay and I am too now 
I really really believe it and I feel 
like getting out there and telling 
people about it I mean honestly the 
women I meet I just want to say please 
call Bella I want to be carrying out 
your cards because I really do believe 
that everybody can find some really 
great great great love story but it 
starts with believing that you can 
Nance I love you to pieces and I can't 
wait to see you in person again and 
thank you so much for sharing your story 
with me with things I learned about 
Nancy things I did not know during this 
call even having been her your dating 
coach for quite a while so thank you so 
much and you guys feel free if you love 
this episode which I know you will we 
have a page on our website dedicated to 
Nancy's love story so come and check it 
out at smartdatingacademy.com and if you 
love this episode give us a review I 
don't need a Christmas present I don't 
need a birthday present just tell us how 
much you love this episode and come 
visit smartdatingacademy.com and check 
out nancyholla.com and with that I bid 
you farewell until next time 


when did you first see the red flags oh 
I would say the red flags were there 
before we even got married and I could 
not pull the trigger for myself even 
though I knew it was probably the right 
thing so I'm very grateful that he 
pulled the trigger ultimately for us I 
haven't been dating in 25 years I have 
no idea what that looks like I need to 
recognize red flags I need to also 
recognize the red flags of myself I 
forget where we met but you ran me 
through this whole questionnaire just 
made me feel really relaxed and then we 
got into the nitty grip which is how are 
we going to reconstitute a partner for 
the better half of your life I really 
love the connection I remade for myself 
during those moments and that that was 
also not an easy experience for me every 
one of you is beautiful and we're going 
to see the beauty and we're going to 
highlight it and it's just a really fun 
experience and I'm so glad that that did 
that for you and started that spark back 
into your soul 


today's guest is one of my soul sisters 
nancy holla nance you and i met for the 
first time on podcast episode one not 
knowing where this journey was gonna 
take us we worked it out where i was 
going to be the test subject i went to 
chicago to have the smart dating academy 
experience the whole kit and caboodle 
i'm going to tell you after meeting you 
i would go on dates and i would think 
about the red flags i stopped ignoring 
the things that really bugged me and i 
started looking for things that i told 
you i wanted and i always thought of 
myself as free spirit and very 
adventurous and i never thought to 
myself i really want to feel safe yeah 
but now that i feel safe it is such a 
delicious feeling it's like the basis 
for everything else i can do creatively 
spiritually professionally because now 
that i'm grounded in marriage safety 
love safety like the sky's the limit to 
have that kind of love fuels all of this 
other beauty in your life it is the 
great vibe 


I have the love story of love stories 
the person that I thought I was supposed 
to spend my life with moved to Chicago 
long story made short it didn't work out 
and so I found myself divorced so you 
and I got a chance to meet and then you 
followed up with a whiz bang and you 
said How's your love life and I wanted 
to go and hide and she's like wait a 
second what do you do for work I said oh 
you know I started this business it's 
called Smart dating Academy and I think 
you might have said we need to talk I 
was like all right I'll sign up for your 
program and I followed the rules the 
book Line singer everything from the 
photo shoot to writing the script emails 
and all that making it so that I had it 
down to a science which was helpful for 
me because I'm a seller it was really 
really simple because I wasn't 
overthinking it one of those reach outs 
was to my husband it was the first time 
I'd ever been in a relationship where I 
was like this is the most natural easy 
thing I've ever experienced and so we 
ended up getting married in Puerto Rico 
we eloped and it was amazing and yeah 
the rest is history 


one of your favorite sayings is and she 
lived happily ever after on her own do 
you 
believe in love the second time around 
or the third time or the fourth time 
around oh totally i first of all i'm a 
serial monogamous i believe in love i 
love being in love i love falling in 
love i really do believe every time you 
fall in love you're falling a little bit 
in love with yourself as well again 
and of course i do at any age or stage i 
mean it's so crazy we've had clients 
come in that are in their 80s and i kind 
of think like one of the younger 
associates said the other day like why 
bother and i'm like what she's just 
gonna wait for him to die like 
every day needs to be lived until it's 
to its fullest and if you've hit a point 
again i'm a big fan of couples 
counseling and you know weekend retreats 
to do whatever work needs to be done on 
the relationship but if it really isn't 
working 
get out and move on 


we're gonna get geeky we're gonna talk 
about chat GPT and what the hell it is 
and how this is going to affect 21st 
century dating I have landed on the side 
Bella that chat GPT could actually be a 
very powerful tool for dating I don't 
know how I feel about AI generated 
images I think that less so that's a 
little creepy and crazy yes and we have 
enough of enough problems with catfish 
and people using fake photos I don't 
even need to deal with it it's like 
overall torturing right it's like we've 
got we don't need a generated photos 
that make us look like Kim Kardashian no 
AI still in its infancy and I think the 
tools are going to continue to be 
improved it's kind of like having 
somebody take over your online dating 
app for you 


[Music] 
if I were to ask anybody right now 
considering getting into a relationship 
here's the thing I think you should 
answer why is your perspective partner 
lucky to have 
you what do you bring to this person why 
you of the billions of people on this 
planet what are you going to bring to 
their life and in that for me often 
really flips the script in terms of I'm 
I'm looking to you know are they going 
to like me am I enough am I too fat am I 
too smart am I too skinny am I too dumb 
am I are they going to love my three 
children you know whatever these things 
I come with all this baggage who's ever 
going to love me bull I think that so 
much of that is how do I what what what 
is good about you then if you can't 
answer that question nobody else is 
going to find 
it 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart daters welcome back I hope you've 
had an amazing week today's guest is 
such an awesome human being a friend of 
mine and a dating coach and a 
relationship expert and her name is 
Demona Hoffman damona welcome to the 
Smart dating Academy podcast I'm so 
happy to be here Bella thank you for 
having me I can't believe I feel like 
we've been friends for like a decade 
does that sound right it's about right 
yeah yeah we girl we've been in the 
trenches in the dating coaching trenches 
together oh my God we were just if you 
guys could be a fly on the wall behind 
the scenes here we were talking about 
behind the scenes lives of dating 
coaches that do it all so we had a great 
conversation but for you guys I'm really 
really 
um happy to have Demona here because 
we're going to tackle kind of three 
different 
subjects today and in our way we're 
gonna go kind of fluidly from one to the 
other but we're gonna get geeky we're 
gonna talk about chat GPT and what the 
hell it is and how we're gonna you know 
how this is gonna affect 21st century 
dating we're going to talk about gender 
roles in dating right what is going on 
who should be doing what then we're 
going to talk about empathetic dating 
because let's just say empathy is super 
sexy super hot and we need to get back 
to that place of empathy and it's going 
to make you a more fun and more 
successful data so let's talk about chat 
GPT my friend tell us all the things 
all the things all the things I must 
admit I was a little skeptical when I 
first heard about chat GPT and uh I got 
called for an interview about chat GPT 
and also these like AI generated photos 
and how it was going to impact dating 
and I got really curious at that point 
because whenever we hear about new 
technology and you and I have both 
worked with a number of the dating apps 
you know as an Insider doing content for 
them and looking at their data so I'm 
really interested in using technology to 
our benefit and not just just 
throwing the baby out with the bath 
water and being like I just don't it's 
new I don't like it because I think 
that's our our initial reaction like 
it's going to replace replace our our 
real communication and 
I have landed on the side Bella that 
chat GPT could actually be a very 
powerful tool for dating I don't know 
how I feel about AI generated images I 
think that less so that's a little 
creepy and crazy that's Barry yes and we 
have enough of enough problems with 
catfish and people using fake photos I 
don't even need to deal with pictures 
like over torturing right it's like 
we've got we don't need ai's generated 
photos that make us look like Kim 
Kardashian no the robot Kim Kardashian 
even though very sexy but very obviously 
AI generated but I think we're still 
ai's still in its infancy and I think 
the tools are going to continue to be 
improved but as far as chat GPT when 
it's really meant to be a tool used for 
written communication and so then I 
start thinking about in dating that has 
been the biggest shift 
in dating since I started coaching 
over 15 years ago 
it's really been like 17. but I just say 
over 15 so I can keep my youthful glow 
Bella clearly you're very glowy very 
glowy it's just the lighting it's just 
the lighting but I the biggest change 
that I have seen and I want to get your 
take on this it's it's not actually even 
the dating apps changing the dating 
scene it's communication the way we 
communicate has shifted completely even 
since the time I met my husband online 
we just celebrated our 16th wedding 
anniversary yay 
got a few years on me so I'm trying to 
keep up with you but you know that was 
pretty early on in online dating to me 
I mean we didn't if we think about what 
was different back then and back when I 
even started coaching we didn't we 
didn't text that was not our primary 
method of communication like the the 
first email message that my husband sent 
to me online it was like three 
paragraphs long that has changed the 
we're now in a much more short form 
communication and I started teaching 
this I started teaching classes about 
six years ago I realized I was getting a 
lot of questions on the dates and mates 
podcast about texting how can I text 
more effectively how can I screen and 
filter through my dates on text how can 
I use text and dating and I feel like I 
called it the texting trap that that it 
really was a necessary step in dating 
but also something that was blocking a 
lot of people from getting to the 
ultimate step which is to really have 
true human connection and I feel like 
chat PT could be a tool to unlock that 
step for a lot of people what do you 
think 
how so 
she's skeptical I'm curious 
okay so I was just talking with uh a 
friend in 
um I have this little Mastermind group 
of other coaches and she was saying 
she's doing a keynote and she's very 
analytical and doesn't think of herself 
as very funny even though I think she's 
very funny and Charming so she actually 
put into chat GPT take my keynote take 
this paragraph for my keynote but make 
it funny and make it funny now make it 
less funny and she was able to dial in 
to Source some jokes from chat GPT but 
then to integrate it and make it sound 
like herself and that's what I'm trying 
to encourage my clients and my data 
mates listeners to do is to not it's 
never going to replace human I don't 
want to say never actually I take that 
back in the immediate term it's not 
replacing human connection but could you 
use it as a tool tool to access that 
funny part of yourself to sort of punch 
up your texts or your profile your 
written part of your profile everybody 
has trouble writing their profile and I 
you know I don't I don't think it's 
unethical to use support I mean people 
come to you for help writing their 
profile all the time I don't think it's 
unethical to use a Tech Tool to do that 
it's it doesn't work if you're just 
copying and pasting it right but if you 
use it as a tool and you program it 
correctly I think it could really 
really revolutionize your dating life 
yeah I think to your point the question 
mark in my head it's kind of like having 
somebody take over your online dating 
app for you right it's kind of having 
them Cyrano your texts and so yes you 
can use chat to add humor so the 
question is is your friend used it to 
make sure that it really reflected her 
personality because she's funny now if 
you are not funny right or if you're 
Ultra funny you just have to make sure 
whatever it is that there's congruence 
between how you're using chat GPT slash 
Ai and who's going to show up to the 
date or the phone call or the video date 
because I think we've all had clients 
that are like wow when I was messaging 
this person back and forth it was fun 
and we had playful banter but then you 
meet the person IRL in real life and 
you're like wait who's 
to warm and you're like you know a brick 
wall sitting in front of me and you know 
Bella that people were saying that 
before chat GPT existed 100 
yeah it's already a thing the question 
is how do you integrate it into your 
life and also can you use it as a tool 
to help you get funnier I think all 
dating skills and I know you agree with 
this I think all dating skills are 
learned skills and can be improved with 
the right kind of support training 
education practice 
and you can actually use chat GPT to 
help you in constructing Whittier 
attacks so maybe you use it as a tool to 
get better now but then down the road 
you've implemented that learning and you 
can do it more seamlessly on your own 
exactly it's like augmenting your 
scintillating personality already right 
so use it learn it build it in lather 
rinse repeats exactly and the other 
thing 
I don't know how many of your listeners 
have tried chat GPT yet but it's not an 
absolute and it it's it's you don't 
always get the right it doesn't always 
sound good the first time so I've been 
really encouraging people just to play 
with it and you don't have to use what 
they give you the first time you can 
refresh you can put in a new prompt you 
can add to your prompt and really see 
how the how the text 
evolves depending on what inputs you 
give it but chat gbt it's still it's 
still sort of human programmed right so 
it is both flawed and Flawless at the 
same time and when you really put that 
lens on and you say okay I'm going to 
use this as a tool for dating and I'm 
going to go into play with it and I'm 
going to get curious and then see how it 
how it's able to impact your dating life 
like you might you might find that it's 
it's not giving you things that sound 
like you and like you said then you show 
up on the date and they're like this 
isn't the same person that doesn't help 
you that you can't get through the 
texting trap only to get to the date and 
have the other person be disappointed or 
feel like you are not who you say you 
are but can we use it as a teaching tool 
for ourselves that's the question at 
hand I like that a lot and I think you 
know I've read studies over the last few 
weeks that have showed you know what's 
happened when they let chat GPT respond 
to text in dating apps and chat GPT 
ain't getting many responses back 
because it just it's the words are good 
but contextually tone wise it's just a 
little off a little weird and so I've 
read some of the interchanges I was like 
wow sounds a little sterile we haven't I 
think that there's room to grow for chat 
GPT but yeah I think for now don't think 
the chat GPT can respond to all of your 
dating inquiries at this point because 
the research is showing don't do that so 
really just use it as a tool if you're 
stumped on what to say or see I might 
say this what does chat say I could do 
to be funnier and then I think that 
that's the way to use it for now and I'm 
sure that we'll be having a very 
different conversation about this 12 
months from now probably and the more we 
use it the smarter it's gonna get and 
also I'm very curious as Google starts 
to integrate more of these tools because 
the piece that chat gbt doesn't have it 
has all of the information on the 
internet that it can pull from it 
doesn't have you it doesn't have your 
voice and your sense of humor 
specifically but you know who does 
your Gmail 
exactly exactly into the future 
everybody Welcome To The Future so wow 
so interesting do you anything else on 
chat gbt before we roll out of it into 
something else I think everyone's 
probably 
probably done with us talking about chat 
gbt just go try it just go try it report 
back shoot us notes DM us come into our 
inbox and tell us what you found with 
chat GPT if you do a before and after 
send it to me and I'll post you in my 
story as long as it's postable let's put 
it that way so let's talk about 
let's talk about gender roles in dating 
I mean this is a big topic for everybody 
so what are you seeing right now in your 
in your in your sphere with gender roles 
and dating 
oh this is such an interesting time 
Bella so many things have been shifting 
and I for I should say just right off 
the bat I am a person who has never 
really subscribed to traditional gender 
roles like I think I asked my husband on 
his on our second date uh I was never 
somebody that was shy about approaching 
guys in the bar or what have you 
um but more importantly 
I have always 
believed in equality I'm a feminist in 
the true 
the true definition of the word feminist 
which means that men and women are equal 
um and also non-binary individuals uh 
that you were all equal 
um but there are a lot of societal 
inputs that I think we are coming to 
terms with and I will not get too 
political today but I think you all know 
what I'm talking about when I say that 
there are a lot of 
uh societal beliefs that we're examining 
right now and being forced to come to 
terms with and when we look at just 
what's happened for equality of the 
Sexes over the last 
let's call it 20 years since I kind of 
look at like everything is like before 
dating apps and after dating apps but 
just look looking at the last 20 years 
of in just in terms of equality 
there have been tremendous shifts in the 
number of women graduating from college 
the number of women moving into 
leadership positions the uh um the the 
of financials and uh how much money 
women are earning so a lot of the the 
lovers are being uh evened out but at 
the same time I feel like there's 
there's this like grasping for 
there's no framework for it and so we're 
still holding on to some old ideals 
about gender roles and dating when we 
really need to be examining if they 
apply to our current situation today 
I love that I mean I have a date 
coaching client named Lila who's a 
testimonial on our website and she is 
African-American beautiful meta guy from 
Spain on Match he had a son Lila has a 
daughter they're now married because 
Lila asked him 
to marry her when they had climbed up 
Everest or Kilimanjaro I think it was 
Kilimanjaro and she had a little ring 
and it was a ring that she literally got 
at REI which was like a ring to have 
like when you actually get to the summit 
and in front of this room full of people 
she asked him to marry her I was like 
but that's Lila and Lila is fierce and a 
feminist as you said in the true sense 
of the world and he was like yes and 
they couldn't be happier 
I love that I love that and I I wish I 
wish more people were willing to do that 
because I think these gender norms and 
stereotypes that it's not our fault by 
the way the other fault that we have 
these things programmed but they you 
know we we've seen so many rom-coms and 
read so many fairy tales and and just 
seen different 
different roles modeled for us that what 
I'm asking people to do I know is very 
difficult because it goes against a lot 
of what you have learned but if we're if 
we're going to 
get ahead in all of these these other 
areas of Our Lives we have to be willing 
to examine like even 
even looking at the 
um the institution of marriage 
the reality is that it was a transfer of 
of property essentially it was a woman 
marrying into a family for her the 
livelihood livelihood of her her her 
existing family and her future family 
and it it was that we didn't have any 
power we didn't have the ability to do 
economic power we had no socioeconomic 
power we couldn't own our own property 
we couldn't provide for ourselves and so 
we had to marry for our 
for our livelihood but now we get to 
Mary for all of these other great 
reasons that I know you coach your 
clients to marry or partner for or 
Partnerships right that's why we marry 
some people marry you know because they 
it's religious some people marry because 
they've dreamed about it since they were 
kids some people I have clients that 
have been married four times before they 
come to us and they do the fifth 
marriage right because for some people 
it's just something that they want and 
they desire and to me I'm like I'm going 
to help you find the lid to your pot 
whether you decide you want to get 
married or not doesn't matter to me it's 
all chalk and cheese at the end of the 
day so so 
I love that we're chatting about this 
and I love that things are transforming 
and that women to your point there's 
more women right now in med school and 
law school than than men at this point 
and as we close in on that 83 cents per 
dollar and it's going to happen really 
quickly right there's the shift of I 
make X as a woman now let's say if I'm 
you know heterosexual whatever and 
looking for a guy like he's got to make 
more money than me right because that's 
what's wired into my DNA well not 
necessarily right as if you're making 
your money if he can pay his own way and 
you can pay your own way there's going 
to be a lot more interesting ways of 
coming together in the future and we're 
seeing it already yeah and this is a 
conversation that I I feel like I've 
been having for many years with a lot of 
my female clients who are looking 
for 
marriage to a man that they have these 
beliefs and they they may feel like 
they're Progressive in their gender and 
that they they want all of these things 
that were not available to my mother and 
my grandmother 
they my mother could not be the CEO of a 
company that was not one of the options 
for her and so it's wonderful that now 
that is an option for women today but I 
do hear just what you were saying that 
okay well what are you looking for in a 
partner we always start our programs 
with mindset and I know you you help 
your clients get clear on this too 
because I'm like if I don't know the 
Target that I'm shooting for for I'm 
just like I'm just tossing arrows into 
the air okay for real let's get really 
clear on what you're looking for and a 
lot of times I will hear that I I need 
well I have a master's degree and I make 
this much money so I need to find 
somebody who makes this much or more and 
somebody that has this level of 
Education or higher and I'm like honey 
how much higher are you gonna go like 
what what do you need them to be like 
PhD doctorate like there's a ceiling 
like multiple doctorates where are we 
going from here you're already you're 
all ready achieving at this high level 
but then if we start to unpeel what do 
you what do you want out of life like 
let's let's paint a picture of the life 
that you are building 
and what do you want and what do you 
really need well I I want to make 
partner and I want to be able to lean in 
at work and I want to you know I want to 
be flying all over the country and doing 
deals and I want that for you but then 
let's build your life around that do you 
then need a partner if you also want to 
have kids and you also want to have a 
home that you have to maintain and all 
do you need to have somebody that's more 
on the home front 
and do you need to have somebody that 
supports you emotionally and do you need 
to have somebody that's not threatened 
by the fact that you are doing all these 
things in the world and when we start to 
really look at the future we sometimes 
realize that the Target that we thought 
was set out for us is actually not what 
we want at all that's right it's so true 
we end up looking for things that match 
on paper or write for no good reason and 
I think biology social media the media 
Traditions culture all point us in 
certain ways but if you really sit back 
and think about gosh what makes me 
really really happy and what kind of 
Life do I actually want and need you'll 
start to look at a potential partner 
very differently and you know we I 
always say in 14 years since we've you 
know had Smart dating Academy we've had 
zero divorces in that time because when 
you have someone who's really helping 
sit on the Seesaw on the other side and 
saying to you is that really really 
important with what you need at this 
point it isn't how about we look over 
here right and height is also a really 
big thing right for in the dating world 
girl don't get me started do not 
and okay let's go let's go and at the 
end of the day these are biological 
impulses that were built into us right 
for 200 000 years ago we're we're 
basically humans haven't evolved much in 
the last 200 000 years and so maybe I'm 
like wow I would like I would like to 
marry a caveman that's bigger than me 
whose kind of triangular shape so he can 
protect my Village from Marauders and go 
hunt the Buffalo kill it and bring it 
home so bigger is better right but now 
Flash Forward to 2023 do I need somebody 
who's bigger than me or do I want 
somebody who's bigger than me right and 
for most of us we want someone who's 
bigger than us why maybe it just makes 
me feel smaller it makes me not feel 
heavy whatever the reasons are but 
really 
challenging yourself to say why is this 
so important to me 
oh okay we're gonna get hate mail on 
this height thing but uh we're already 
we're going there 
because I agree with you I agree with 
you uh the the height is the other thing 
that I hear all the time it's like how 
much money how much money does he make 
and how tall is he 
um and then everything else is just 
whatever I'm like emotional intelligence 
uh how about all of these 
problem-solving skills and communication 
conflict resolution no apparently none 
of that but but it's because we haven't 
been asked to examine that until very 
recently and I again I'm always bucking 
the trends I I've never had a thing I'm 
also very short I've never had a thing 
for tall guys so all of you who are 
listening who are like I hate those 
short girls that take the talkers 
I'm not one of them me neither maybe I 
think uh but it it's someone biological 
conditioning but I think it's a lot of 
the second thing that you were talking 
about how do I feel when I'm with this 
person out in the world right and how 
what reactions am I going to get from my 
family my friends if I show up and this 
person is shorter than me and then we 
start doing height math where it's like 
well if I'm 5'4 and then I'm going to be 
wearing three inch heels all the time 
how often are you going to be wearing 
three inch heels okay if I hear this one 
more time 
so I'm with you on that but I I really 
like getting curious about painting the 
picture of your life and what is it 
really going to look like and then also 
figuring out how do you want to feel 
with your partner and 
you know with the height thing I would 
ask a client 
is it about the height or is it that you 
want to feel safe 
is it that you want to feel safe and 
you're correlating height and safety 
because of some old programming that 
maybe yours maybe biological maybe 
societal I don't know but you're 
correlating those two things when they 
may not actually have a connection in 
today's world at all 
that's exactly right and so if you know 
hopefully you're not going to send us 
hate mail on this but just think about 
think about what it means to you right 
I'm five two and a half my husband is 
five five when I do drag out those three 
to four inch heels it's rare let me tell 
you and if I do yeah I'm a little taller 
than him he doesn't care and I don't 
care right I mean would it be nice to 
have someone who's six feet tall and 
five inches taller than me sure why not 
but at the end of the day it is what it 
is right I got a lot of other stuff 
I I sorry tall guys I'm I'm not here for 
it I don't like the big differential 
it's not as comfortable for me but my 
husband's five ten so 
it's kind of in the middle I don't know 
but it it it literally wasn't even a 
factor on 
uh it was not anywhere on the list it 
was just and and we don't we don't have 
to get too deep into this but I think we 
think a lot about the packaging that 
people come in and what skin color they 
have what hair color what eye color what 
weight are they going to be and none of 
that matters and a lot of that stuff 
changes it all changes right they may 
have no hair after 16 years of marriage 
right I'm here to tell you 
they may have no hair and you have to be 
you have to not be in love with that 
shell you have to be in love with the 
person that's on the inside 
if we do nothing else dear listener 
through this it's at least make you 
curious 
at least make you try to do something 
different in last week's episode it 
called seven things you can change right 
now to rock your dating life one of the 
things I told you guys to do if you 
listened is play the game called Three 
Blind Mice pick three people where you 
push your parameters out and look at 
people who sound good sound nice they 
may be different they may have a 
different skin color they're a different 
height they're in a different zip code 
than you ever imagined pick three people 
that you wouldn't normally date start 
messaging them maybe with chat GPT just 
start messaging them and challenge 
yourself to at least do a phone call or 
a video date with this person and find 
three things that you like or have in 
common with them so really trying to 
push your boundaries out so if we've 
made you even a little bit curious about 
huh maybe I could you know adjust on 
that a little bit job well done Demona 
job well done Bella I I agree with you 
and I love that exercise because what it 
does when we we create challenges and 
games for ourselves it gets us out of 
our head and it gets us out of that 
programming that we may not even realize 
we're walking through again and again 
and again until you end up at the same 
place and you're like wait why do I 
always date people who are unavailable 
why do I always date people who cheat 
why do I always date people who make me 
feel like this because so many times we 
don't get curious like you were saying 
and and really slow the process down I 
know you're also a slow slow dating Slow 
Love fan 
slow it down and get curious and use use 
all of these experiences as a as a sort 
of testing ground as a learning as a 
learning opportunity both about the 
other people but also about ourselves 
and if maybe Chad GPT didn't speak to 
you before but I love your idea of try 
the chat GPT with the three blind mice 
because then the stakes are low we've 
just put so much pressure on ourselves 
and so much pressure on each of these in 
interactions to be the thing to be the 
person and sometimes that person is not 
the person but that that nugget of 
wisdom that you gain is the thing that 
unlocks your future 
exactly exactly and if you guys have 
been listening to this podcast for the 
last year you know when clients come 
back to tell their love stories on those 
episodes you guys love it's some sort of 
a tweak that happens right but it all 
starts with how we're thinking about it 
oh I can't date anybody who lives three 
hours away from me no way Jose oh I 
can't date anybody who's exactly the 
same height as me up we turn down one 
inch and up there goes your last first 
date here you go so I hope that this is 
getting you curious about gender roles 
and speaking of are there any other 
things that you're seeing in in the 
whole gender roles World in your 
practice 
well another hot button issue is we've 
been talking about women making more 
money and this the dating getting faster 
because of tools like chat gbt and 
because we're texting you can send a 
quick text to someone a lot a lot faster 
than you know in the olden times when we 
used to do phone calls with every single 
person and so this the speed of dating 
is increased the volume of dating is 
increased and that ends us up in a place 
where like dating it's expensive today 
and with inflation 
it's it's real like if you're listening 
and feeling like the crunch of of dating 
finances it it it's definitely real uh 
so I'm seeing a big shift I'm curious if 
you're seeing it too around 
this conversation of who pays for a date 
and what does that mean like if someone 
offers to split I would say I started 
hearing about five years ago this idea 
of 
going dutch I don't know hopefully 
that's not a 
it's not euphemism for something else 
but 
uh you know splitting the check yeah 
that 
um that was kind of a question five 
years ago and I see it trending much 
more among the daters in my program you 
too same 100 in fact we always counselor 
our clients to ask to split share pay 
their share whatever it is because at 
the end of the day I'm like if you went 
out with a girlfriend or a guy friend 
would you expect them to pay for you 
no you wouldn't right and maybe if they 
treated you last time you might decide 
you want a treat but this expectation of 
someone needing to pay for you I think 
is going to be a bygone at a certain 
point because with the frequency to your 
point of dating it can get really 
expensive and I know women will always 
say but I spend so much more money I get 
my hair blown out I get a manicure a 
pedicure I might get my makeup done 
whatever it is and then there's Ubers 
back and forth I mean at the end of the 
day what I would tell you is 
you don't have to spend all that money 
do a zoom date right kick the tires you 
all know I always say crazy can't hide 
for more than 10 minutes if somebody is 
truly banana pants you're gonna catch 
that on video so and do that from home 
rather than right rather than you know 
having to suffer through and pay for 
half of a date where you're like oh my 
God I could have just had a Reese's 
Peanut Butter Cup at home and been way 
happier than being here at this point so 
yeah 
um so yeah the money thing is a big deal 
and what I also want to tell you is if 
you're a woman out on a date with a guy 
right and if he lets you pay don't be 
dismayed by that and don't think that 
he's not that into you if he lets you 
pay right a lot of guys are writing a 
lot of checks to date on a daily basis 
and if you offer to pay and he lets you 
it's okay to pay your share right and 
I've seen marriages happen where that 
happened on the first date with the 
female client of mine and all of her 
friends are like dump him if he really 
liked you you can't be with anyone cheap 
and I was like 
listen to me not to them right not the 
peanut gallery and they're now happily 
married right she found out that over 
the course of several days he's a single 
dad his wife was making no money and his 
daughter wanted to go to NYU and he was 
living on an engineer's salary right so 
here's a man who's really trying to save 
up to send his only daughter to her 
dream School suddenly her my client's 
perspective changed on it right I was 
like give it a chance be curious see 
what happens 
and it could even be a test I mean I 
definitely have some male clients that 
that are like I don't 
I don't want to feel like I'm doing all 
the work in this relationship so to me 
it means something if she offers to pay 
or offers to split that tells me about 
who she is and her integrity and her 
character character exactly exactly so I 
I'm okay with the splitting now I and I 
promise you if you listened if you go 
back on dates and mates like three years 
ago I think I was like guys just pick up 
the check 
one thing I love about dating it's 
always changing and evolving right 100 
and I still do tell guys look it's baked 
into women's DNA there's a lot of 
programming if you can pay do it it will 
always get you bonus points still but 
women offer to pay and be okay with 
paying your share at least so so I must 
have some yeah let's have some more 
creative dates as well because sure 
you're gonna be pissed off if you're 
going out for you know four star steak 
dinners every first date and you're you 
know dropping bananas but people do it 
because they're like well I want to 
impress the person and a quick story I I 
went out with a guy right before I met 
my husband actually I went out with this 
guy we had a first date it was okay and 
we went on a second date and we were 
walking around we went to Wokcano which 
like a kind of mid-range Asian fusion 
restaurant and we're walking around uh 
this sort of Entertainment District and 
he stops in front of the steakhouse and 
he goes when I know you better I'll take 
you here and I was like hilarious no you 
won't because we won't be going here 
game over I was so offended I was so 
offended like oh I'm just not I'm not 
like steak worthy yet like honey I could 
buy my own steak I don't I do not need 
this from you but it really did tell me 
something about 
um who he was that he would make that 
comment and I think thing not a speak 
thing people I know right have your 
mental filters on just don't say 
anything 
or don't even think it it's just it's 
anyways but you know that was an olden 
times 
when when we we did have much more uh of 
a framework 
a traditional framework for who pays and 
who asks and how how it's supposed to go 
and I just I love that we're in this 
space I feel like there's so much more 
opportunity for women women have so much 
more Choice yeah than they did even one 
generation ago but of course with more 
Choice comes more responsibility and I 
think that's the thing that we're really 
feeling the crush of right now in modern 
dating is we we're on the push in 
everything and you know in our in our 
professional life and you know with our 
family 
politically there's just so much 
pressure on everything and then when we 
add dating to it we're like 
I don't have to do so much in dating but 
as you've demonstrated Bella when you 
when you lean into your dating life and 
you get curious and you you take the 
learnings that are there the results you 
get are so much better and I think 
sometimes we lose sight of the the 
result that we want that relationship 
when we're in the thick of the the 
learning part you're so right you're 
absolutely right well you know this 
leads us perfectly into our next 
mini topic within this of 
empathetic dating tell us what that 
means to you 
so remember when I was talking about the 
speed of dating increasing and the 
volume of dating increasing the other 
byproduct of that wonderful opportunity 
that we have is that dating has really 
become more transactional and I'm sure 
you're seeing this too totally when 
you're sorting through so many people 
and you're having so many conversations 
on top of the crush of all of the other 
communication that you have to deal with 
with you know zoom and slack and email 
it it makes us 
a little it's it's sucked out some of 
our empathy and I'm not even going to 
talk about Twitter and the impact of 
that sucking outer the Twitter the 
Twitter but we we really are in a period 
where I feel like we've been strangely 
lacking empathy you would think that 
coming through covid would make us more 
empathetic but because of the isolation 
I think we've we've gotten away from 
that and I'm on a mission Bella to bring 
the empathy back to dating 
I love that I love that and I think it's 
so crucial right because it makes dating 
first of all you become a hell of a lot 
more attractive when you're an 
empathetic dater right and I think it's 
crucial in every relationship that we 
have right whether it's a work 
relationship whether it's with your 
partner it's with the neighbor it's with 
your kids or whether it's the person 
that's sitting across from you and 
instead of coming from a place of 
judgment just say okay what could this 
person be feeling right now what have 
they been through and if you do my 
favorite term listen to understand 
right empathy drives listening to 
understand versus listening to respond 
so much of dating is listening to 
respond oh if he says this let me get 
into my head and think of a goal cool 
fun story about you know my hot girl 
summer or whatever it is it's like no 
instead 
continue to be super present and really 
listen to what he's saying to understand 
him because at that point you will find 
another nugget like a good journalist to 
dig deeper to get more information and 
to make the date more fun for you 
yeah more fun for both of you right but 
nobody wants to have these boring 
transactional dates anymore we're done 
with that and it's just not sustainable 
at the volume that most people are going 
on dates today it's not sustainable so I 
love I love that phrase listen to 
understand and also kind of bringing 
back something you mentioned earlier 
this curiosity I try to get my clients 
to really be curious on the date and to 
be in the moment and that shifts that 
shifts everything where it's not does 
this person like me and what do I need 
to say to get them interested how much 
longer is this day going to go on but 
you really stay in the moment and and 
focus on connection 
and sometimes it's there sometimes it's 
not there but if you're coming from a 
place of empathy then you're not going 
to carry around also any sense of guilt 
like a lot of times 
uh my clients come to me saying I know 
that this isn't right this this person 
is not my person but I don't want to 
upset them I don't want to disappoint 
them we already made a date for next 
week and I feel bad yeah and I think 
it's the wrong kind of empathy to say 
okay I feel bad so I'm just gonna go on 
this date because I already said I would 
and if you know in your heart it's not 
right actually the most empathetic thing 
that you can do is to let that person 
know and we get so afraid of that 
the discomfort that comes with that 
interaction that will we just end up 
ghosting we'll say we hate ghosting and 
then but then to the person that we 
don't we're not interested in we'll just 
go with them and that's not empathetic 
at all no no it isn't and we have 
something that we have our clients do 
called the goodbye sandwich and we 
customize it for every interaction where 
they you know want to not go on the date 
maybe they have to break up with 
somebody but there is a direct and kind 
approach to to doing this kind of thing 
and you're right you know sometimes the 
more empathetic thing to do and people 
ask well if somebody sent me a message 
do I like Bella when I launch with these 
new photos in my new profile do I have 
to respond to everybody and I'm like no 
you don't I need your energy in the game 
for the people that you're in interested 
in right and well isn't it mean to not 
respond I'm like no if you think about 
it from a standpoint of empathy if I 
sent out five messages to guys right and 
this is how I run my practice what would 
I want to do if I sent out five messages 
I could wake up in the morning to let's 
say two potentially negative scenarios 
we're not going to talk about the 
positive one right now we'll say either 
I could read five 
I just don't think we're a match but 
thanks so much for playing I could wake 
up to five of those or I could just wake 
up to an empty inbox right from my 
vantage point I would probably just 
rather go well maybe he was busy I could 
tell myself another story but I'm not 
hearing five hard no's right then and 
there right so I look at it with that 
that's an empathetic thing to do is if 
you're not interested you don't have to 
respond 
the very first opening Salvo of a 
message if you've been corresponding 
with this person hell if you've been 
dating them that's not it this is just 
the very first message agree I say I 
treat those first messages as well like 
coins in the fountain you toss it in 
it's like it's you made a wish and if it 
doesn't come true it was just a penny 
are you gonna cry over a penny and if 
your wish comes true then great you got 
your wish but otherwise it's just a coin 
and a fountain I love it that's great 
and thank you and it gets a lot of women 
prior to Bumble even I've been saying to 
women take control of your dating 
Destiny initiate messages it's not going 
to upset the whole chivalry apple cart 
if you send an if you initiate a message 
because it's just a coin and Fountain 
it's not even really an interaction just 
yet and so saying that has gotten a lot 
of women you know particularly some of 
my clients who are older who 
didn't really grow up with online dating 
and this is all kind of new and like 
wait but isn't the guy supposed to 
approach me and this is a whole 
different different thing the rules are 
different and when you're dealing with 
technology as we were talking about 
earlier in chat GPT you have to program 
it in a certain way and you can't think 
of the old rules applying to the new 
technology so just sending out those 
messages even as a woman we see I'm sure 
you've seen this data at match and 
elsewhere as well that when women 
initiate messages according to OkCupid 
data they the conversations last twice 
as long as when men initiate the 
messages and that's because women are 
not initiating enough messages 
well and and this is the thing I've had 
guys tell me geez it's like Christmas in 
July to get a message from a woman 
directly a few episodes ago I had 
sadaf's love story she sent a message to 
a guy that she thought looked 
interesting they're now engaged right so 
it's okay ladies again this gets back to 
the gender roles thing right get off the 
sidelines and it's okay to send that 
first message it's okay to suggest 
taking it to a video date it's okay to 
say hey do you want to grab a drink 
everything is okay and isn't that 
beautiful 
it is beautiful and I 
I I I love that you're giving your 
listeners permission also to be in touch 
with what they want because I feel like 
so much of let's call it old dating so 
much of old dating is like this is what 
you're supposed to do this is how it's 
always been done and this is Isaac and 
he will zag and that's that's the script 
we're running and I just I encourage my 
clients and my listeners to to embrace 
this new time where we get to write our 
own scripts we get to use our own chat 
gbt right we get to write our own 
scripts and if you do it from that point 
of empathy that place of empathy both 
for the other person and for yourself 
like how does it feel yourself to not to 
not feel like you're in control of 
anything that's happening in your dating 
life to be like waiting for the messages 
to come in or you know going on these 
days that you don't want to go on or 
waiting for somebody to ask you out when 
you're stuck in this texting trap going 
back and forth 
how does that feel for you 
it's it doesn't feel very empathetic to 
me for your inner soul right so if you 
can employ a little bit more empathy and 
know that everybody wants the same thing 
we all want to have real connection we 
all one thing that hasn't changed is we 
all need love that is a core need that 
is on Maslow's hierarchies our hierarchy 
of needs we we need Community we need 
love we need support we need we need 
partnership and it looks different for 
everybody 
but 
our job in this hole 
shepherding people through love is 
really to get folks clear on what they 
want and then how to communicate that 
and and move through the process and we 
have all these tools now I think that's 
very exciting 
well Demona you're awesome thank you so 
much for enlightening us with your wit 
and wisdom today it's always such a 
treat to be with you how can people find 
out more about you 
well I do the data mates podcast every 
Tuesday woohoo 
um I gotta have you back 
sometime soon 
and yeah we uh we do just this we talk 
about the modern challenges of dating 
and how to work through them we do 
headlines of the week we do interviews 
and we do uh q a every single week and 
then I also I'm on Instagram at damona 
Hoffman on Twitter on Facebook you can 
send me questions for the show or 
interact there or you can go to dates 
and mates.com where you can listen to 
the podcast and also get my profile 
starter kit it's a free program for a 
limited time only that'll help you write 
your dating profile before I am replaced 
by chat GPT 
well Demona thank you you're awesome and 
we will definitely have you back sooner 
than later thank you Bell I appreciate 
it 


laura wasser is an author entrepreneur 
and family law expert our friend laura 
maintains that divorce is the great 
equalizer it terrifies everyone on earth 
i really like doing this kind of law 
because i'm sure as you will see but on 
a different end of it it's all about 
human nature and human relationships and 
you're helping people to end something 
but begin a new phase of their 
relationship and hopefully a better way 
because divorce is never fun but it 
really is an opportunity to kind of 
represent yourself not only to whomever 
sitting across from you at the table but 
to yourself and feel good about yourself 
in this next chapter for most people 
it's crazy to say i'm healed i'm no 
longer angry or pissed or whatever it is 
it's just okay have you closed that 
chapter and you feel like you've 
invested in you have you fallen in love 
with yourself a little bit and 
the thought of dating puts a little bit 
of a spring in your step 


the best amount of sex for people is the 
amount you're comfortable with and I 
know that might seem sort of cheeky on 
the one hand but but in fact there are 
some couples who report really high 
sexual and relationship satisfaction and 
we know that sexual satisfaction and 
relationship satisfaction are highly 
correlated one of the strongest 
predictors of divorce are people's sex 
lives and I always think it's it's a 
little entertaining to me when people 
forget that because we say we need to 
think about sex and relationships if you 
sometimes I'll joke with my colleagues 
say if we want to keep families together 
we need to think about 
but in fact the uh our sex lives have a 
major impact on our relationship 
satisfaction and stability and for some 
people it's because we use they use sex 
is a Weather Vein if suddenly if they're 
not having sex they think okay there's 
something else going on in our 
relationship I'm unhappy you're unhappy 
we're working too hard you know whatever 
could be the reality is couples 
fluctuate throughout their life whether 
you have sex once a week or four times a 
week there doesn't seem to be a big 
difference on its impact on relationship 
and sexual 
satisfaction 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back I hope you've 
had an amazing week since we met last 
time and today I am called by the spirit 
to talk to you about a topic that comes 
up every single day 
um with our clients and with new 
potential clients and that topic is how 
do I date after divorce 
so I put pen to paper and I've come up 
with the top 10 things to do when you're 
dating after divorce and this has been 
inspired by the fact that I in this 
month of October am speaking to two 
different really big groups one is 
called the National Association of 
divorce professionals and talking to 
their professionals about how their 
clients should date after divorce and 
then I'm speaking to another big singles 
group so I wanted to talk to you my 
audience my dear listener about what you 
should do when you're dating after 
divorce and even if you haven't been 
divorced I don't think you should shut 
off the episode here I think you're 
going to find a lot of tips that are 
going to be useful to you when you've 
kind of come out of any relationship so 
let's get right into it so 
thing number one to do when you're 
dating after divorce is really think 
about have you done the work have you 
done the therapy have you done the 
coaching right divorce and ending a 
relationship even if it's a breakup 
maybe you weren't married but it feels 
like a divorce right and there are so 
many relationships that feel like 
divorces whether you were legally 
married or not it's incredibly painful 
for most people they say during the time 
that it's happening it's the most 
tumultuous storm that they've ever been 
in there's feelings of failure feelings 
of sadness feelings of anger so many 
things that need to be processed right 
and some of us try to go at it alone but 
the issue is this when I get you at the 
other side of the tunnel when you've 
come out of your divorce I can tell the 
difference between the people that have 
done the work and people that haven't 
done the work and you can rest assured 
if I feel like you have haven't done the 
work yet I'm going to tell you date 
coaching is not for you that you need to 
get yourself into therapy and you need 
to process what happened what happened 
to you why did it happen why did it go 
on so long and also just as important 
what your part in the divorce was right 
it always takes two to tango so you 
might be listening to this going oh my 
gosh you don't know my ex he or she was 
awful they were avoidant they were a 
narcissist I had nothing to do with this 
I was the victim but at the end of the 
day when you really start to dig in and 
do the work we all bring our own stuff 
and our own baggage to relationships and 
that stuff for that baggage certainly 
contributes to the good things that 
happen in the relationship but also in 
the bad things that happen in the 
relationship so number one I want to 
make sure that you have done the work 
whether it's therapy whether it's a 
support group whether it's coaching that 
you've done something thing and there 
are so many great therapists great 
coaches great support groups out there 
so make sure that you have done your 
work and you'll know it when you may 
never heal right I don't know that we 
heal from a lot of wounds right but 
you'll know that you'll be able to think 
about what happened to you your divorce 
and without the anger that bubbles over 
the hostility that bubbles over the 
profound 
sadness and grief that you once felt if 
you feel like okay I've gone through 
that I know if you push on that wound it 
hurts but I'm in a pretty good place 
you're probably in a pretty good place 
to think about dating if you've done 
that work so 
um thing number two tip number two on 
what to do when you're dating after 
divorce 
um this is really super important hire 
somebody to help you 30 40 years ago 
there was nobody to help you therapy 
wasn't something that people really 
considered and it wasn't widely 
available I'll tell you what coaching 
didn't even exist right 
um any kind of coaches whether they're 
divorce coaches dating coaches nothing 
like that existence so I'm going to make 
a case for you to hire someone to help 
you navigate what feels like being 
tossed into the Atlantic Ocean without a 
life Fest on I get so many people that 
have come to us and maybe they do our 
love lab workshops or they've been 
listening to this podcast and they're 
like oh my God like I just don't know 
where to go anymore I've tried this I've 
tried that people let me tell you this 
hire someone to help you I'm not saying 
it has to be us at Smart dating Academy 
it can be whomever you think best serves 
you but somebody that is really going to 
help you at the granular level to figure 
out how to date during divorce are you 
ready to do this what are the three 
major pipelines that you should be 
looking at to get yourself out there 
dating and dating successfully right so 
hire someone that is a professional to 
help you go through this process I get 
lots of referrals from therapists lots 
of referrals from divorce coaches from 
divorce professionals divorce attorneys 
hire somebody that can make this process 
less painful because the data bear bears 
out 
you can save 40 to 50 percent of first 
marriages end in divorce but you know 
what 
the data for second marriages 67 of 
those dissolve in divorce and 74 of 
third marriages due and that doesn't 
even include the 10 to 15 percent of 
people that permanently separate so the 
state of our unions isn't very good so 
thank goodness put your big boy or big 
girl pants on on tighten your belt and 
make the investment in someone that can 
help you think about the emotional 
turmoil this breakup or this divorce 
cost you the financial and the economic 
impacts of that where you can make an 
investment albeit it might be sizable in 
making sure that you know how to 
navigate this process the right way you 
would hire a coach in any other aspect 
of your life right if you wanted to 
learn how to golf and you wanted to 
become a golf pro you wouldn't just go 
out and hack by yourself you would hire 
a golf coach Business Leaders CEOs and 
at any company at any level all have 
coaches at that level right professional 
athletes have coaches can you imagine an 
NBA or an NFL team without a coach heck 
no right they have people coaching them 
guiding them on how to be their personal 
best or how to make the team it's best 
to win and to achieve the goals so hire 
someone to help you there's no shame in 
that in fact the stigma is so far down 
the line so you guys know if you want to 
hire us send us an email at 
smartdatingacademy.com and you know we 
will get back to you the same day now 
Point number three fix your picker okay 
fix your relationship picker have you 
noticed that your picker is broken and 
how do you know if your picker is broken 
are have you been in a series of bad 
relationships maybe even before your 
marriage dissolved in divorced where the 
people before that read flaggy and you 
didn't pick well have the people post 
divorce that you've dated with dabbled 
with goes to you been red flaggy 
ultimately been narcissistic avoid it 
overtly controlling or anxious if your 
picker is broken meaning you're doing 
the same thing over and over again again 
get help around this if your picker is 
broken it's what we do every day at 
Smart dating Academy is it easy no is 
there a magic wand that I wave to fix 
your picker no it's about understanding 
why your picker is broken in what way 
it's broken what the bad things that 
it's leading you to do and then how 
we're going to gently fix your picker to 
start to attract the right kinds of 
people that give you what you need 
versus what you just want and why are 
our Pickers broken right I mean there's 
a lot of reasons right attachment theory 
is something those of you who have 
followed my work a lot you no I'm an 
enormous believer and you know we've 
become quite the experts now at 
attachment Theory and how that plays out 
and Pickers can be broken because you 
didn't get the love that you needed when 
you were a kid or a teenager from your 
parents or your guardians or your 
parents or whomever was taking care of 
you now does that mean that they were 
bad horrible abusive people absolutely 
not it just means you as young you did 
not perceive that your needs were going 
to be met adequately by the people that 
you were trusting to get your needs met 
so you can have attachment systems that 
aren't functional that cause you to 
constantly gravitate towards anxious or 
avoided or anxious avoidant Partners 
right now now your picker could be 
broken if even if you grew up in a 
lovely home where you had two great 
parents that wanted nothing more for you 
and you're like oh my God I won the 
family Lottery it's amazing you could be 
that secure person who's constantly in 
relationships with people that don't 
work for you simply because maybe you've 
had early dating relationships where it 
kind of set the imprint in for you 
looking for bad boys or bad girls 
whatever it is someone with a little 
Edge someone that keeps you on your toes 
right those kinds of things don't always 
serve us well in the dating world so 
really think about yourself and if your 
picker is broken and good Lord social 
media and the media they don't make our 
Pickers any better right we watch 
Hollywood films thinking we're gonna 
meet eyes across the produce aisle with 
someone and you know sail off to 
relationship happiness two weeks later 
that's just nonsense right none of that 
works that's why it's fun bubble gum for 
the brain to watch the rom-coms are on 
the screen because they're not realistic 
that's not how real life happens and 
remember we're also evolutionary program 
to search and preference certain traits 
for women its height for men its age 
maybe our body shape there's so much to 
this that enables us and causes us to 
pick people that aren't good for us so 
rule number three or tip number three 
when you're dating after divorce is fix 
your picker and again that goes back to 
rule number two if your picker is broken 
and list the experts to help you please 
I beseech you to do that don't think you 
need to do this on your own you really 
really don't especially if you think 
your picker is broken do something to 
fix it because it doesn't magically fix 
itself because even if I put the most 
perfect person in front of you if you 
had a broken picker you would think ugh 
I'm not attracted to this person ugh 
this person is boring I'm not feeling 
any chemistry so if this sounds like you 
you might just have a broken picker now 
thing number four that I want you to do 
is get psychotically optimistic about 
your future right you've just come 
through the dark tunnel of divorce and 
hopefully that storm cloud is lifted and 
the sun is shining and you're feeling so 
good about your life and you have grown 
to love your life as it is now okay when 
people say fall in love with yourself I 
think what they actually mean is fall in 
love with your new life enjoy you get to 
know you enjoy spending time with you 
get to know new people get to make new 
friends right so much of the drama of 
divorce causes so many of our friends to 
abandon us you know who your real 
friends are once you go through a 
divorce right so I want you to get 
psychotically optimistic about your 
future because when you're doing the 
right things when you get your picker 
fixed when you have somebody alongside 
with you you will become psychotically 
optimist stick and I want you to keep 
the Mantra remember for those of you who 
don't know what psychotic optimism is it 
means you believe that love will come to 
you whether it feels like the Sahara 
Desert and dry dry right now or you just 
feel down and out you feel like 
nothing's going to happen I want you to 
tell yourself love is out there for me 
it's a when it's not an if I'm gonna 
have to do some things differently and 
I'm gonna have to push myself out of my 
comfort zone and I'm gonna have to make 
some changes in the things that I'm 
doing but I know in my heart of hearts 
that love exists for me it's a when it's 
not an if and if you truly believe that 
you'll start to vibrate at a different 
level and once you're vibrating at that 
level you'll start to let good people in 
you'll start to date better you'll start 
to have better fun and better luck 
through this process as well now thing 
tip number five okay now your mindset's 
in the right place let's say you're 
picker is fixed you've done the work 
you're feeling psychotically optimistic 
about your dating future number five I 
want you to get online the right way 
okay you need to take this seriously 
most people come to us with profiles 
where I was like oh are you kidding me 
men and women okay people pick what you 
do is you don't take this seriously I 
want you to take this as seriously as 
you would selling your home okay I want 
you to take this as seriously as you 
would job search you would invest in 
that you would get a new suit if you 
were job searching you would hire a 
professional to write your resume you 
would practice interviewing with someone 
you trusted you would do all of these 
things because you're like wow it's 
really important that I position myself 
the right way for job search or if 
you're looking to sell your home right 
that could be a fifty thousand dollar 
home it could be a five million dollar 
home but whatever it is you want to to 
make sure that you're maximizing top 
dollar are you going to take some old 
cell phone photos of your kitchen and 
your bedroom from your iPhone with all 
your clutter and crap laying around when 
it's not well lit heck no you're gonna 
have your realtor give you advice and 
they're going to help you stage your 
house and you're going to hire a 
professional photographer to take photos 
now I wish people would put half the 
effort into themselves in the dating 
process as they do into job search as 
they do into selling their homes right 
you would reap so many benefits if you 
do ladies and gentlemen you have to have 
great photos as part of this process you 
need to have six amazing photos of you 
and that doesn't mean the six best 
photos you have in your phone and if 
you're laughing right now you're just 
like everybody else that comes to us we 
pick the best of what we have right it's 
like thinking you're gonna cook a 
gourmet meal and picking like the six 
things that are sitting molding in your 
refrigerator potentially they're not 
that great they're half eaten but you're 
going to prepare a gourmet meal out of 
that absolutely not you would have a 
plan you would have a recipe you would 
know it in advance you would go to the 
grocery store you would buy the freshest 
best ingredients right you would know 
maybe you would even practice making it 
before you would entertain a group with 
that meal so here I want you to think 
about having that preparation having 
great photos if you don't know what 
great photos look like go to 
smartdatingacademy.com look at our 
photos and profiles Page look at our 
inspiring stories Pages there are so 
many amazing photos on there and I'll 
let you know we're putting that stuff 
out there for every client that's your 
competition the people that I'm putting 
online I'll tell you what you don't want 
to compete with my clients right we've 
got the best photos so you want to dress 
to impress have great headshots have 
great body shots and take this seriously 
do not just use the phone the pictures 
that you have in your phone own and all 
the data shows that we don't pick the 
right photos of ourselves get rid of the 
photos with your kids get rid of the 
photos with your ex that look like a 
crime scene get some new photos and have 
somebody besides you pick the best 
photos of you we have an online dating 
love lab called the 
um online dating love lab and where we 
pick our clients best photos and then we 
really teach people how to position 
themselves how to have the best photos 
how to post what kind of lighting all of 
the things so there's a lot of great 
information out there if you don't feel 
like cobbling it together and figuring 
out on your own again hire someone that 
can help you to do that and then spend 
some time writing some great text on 
your profile okay something that sounds 
positive something that sounds specific 
something that's about you leave all of 
the negative ambiguous verbiage out of 
there one of my pet peeves is when 
people say they're not looking for any 
drama you know what the person that says 
they're gonna they're not looking for 
dramas the person that's gonna cause you 
drama okay but I digress have a great 
profile and again if you need someone to 
take a look at your profile take a look 
at your profile text hire someone to 
help you get your profile into my cute 
little hands and I will help you with 
all of this to make sure that you're 
putting your best foot forward and if 
you're thinking right now especially 
ladies do men really read profiles the 
kinds of guys that you want to date are 
going to read your profiles okay so you 
want to make sure that you're putting 
the best gems about you out there okay 
now Point number six tip number six have 
a dating strategy you can't just go out 
there and throw some spaghetti at the 
wall on this I want you to think about 
this again as seriously as you would 
date sir as partner search looking for a 
new job job and partner search job 
search is what I meant to say thinking 
about how you would sell your house you 
need to have goals you need to have a 
plan okay so now that you're going to 
have hopefully and I've talked you into 
getting amazing photos that look like 
you okay I'm not saying the souped up 
glammed up filtered up version of you 
because guess what y'all you got to show 
up to the date and you gotta look like 
those photos so don't be over filtering 
and over photoshopping that stuff 
because it will bite you in the you know 
where okay so now you're gonna have a 
dating strategy okay I want you to think 
about creating a dating funnel and 
creating a dating funnel means you're 
going to Pedal that bike you're gonna 
send out lots of proactive messages and 
you're going to spend 15 minutes in the 
morning 15 minutes in the evening I want 
30 minutes a day just like you would to 
work out just like you would to do 
anything important in your life you have 
to put some scheduled time into this 
process okay and again if you're coming 
out of divorce and you're a single 
parent use video video to be efficient 
don't just message someone and go 
straight to meeting someone where you 
have to hire a sitter right do a video 
date 15 to 30 minutes all the apps have 
them built in now it really avoids a lot 
of disappointing dates and remember what 
do I always say to you guys crazy cannot 
hide for more than 10 freaking minutes 
so if you do a video date and if 
somebody's truly cuckoo for Cocoa Puffs 
it's going to come out during the video 
date okay and then as part of your 
dating strategy only go on two dates a 
week okay now with our clients I know 
you're smiling and I know you know what 
this dating funnel looks like what this 
scheduling looks like and how to 
navigate all of this 
I only want you to go on at maximum two 
in-person dates a week because I want 
you to stay psychotically optimistic I 
don't want you to have dating fatigue 
about your dating life I want you to 
have the energy to do this I want you to 
fill up your cup I want you to be with 
your elevator people the people that 
elevate you and they bring out the best 
version of you I want you to exercise 
because exercise builds beta endorphins 
and good happy hormones and it makes you 
healthy and fit right I want you to eat 
well I want you to sleep well I want you 
to do all of those things that are going 
to keep your dating cup full so only go 
on two dates a week at Max okay now 
Point number seven I want you to 
remember get your pen out take a note on 
your phone right now take things slowly 
keep them slow okay people especially 
coming out of divorce you know what we 
want to do sometimes we want a Revenge 
date because our X is already with 
somebody sometimes we just want to fill 
those voids with that new boo that new 
person and we want to get out there and 
we don't want to date because we just 
want to be snuggled up in a happy 
relationship today but remember those 
divorce statistics okay that's what 
happens when we take things too quickly 
okay I want you and especially if you've 
been in an abusive and empty a Loveless 
relationship Your Love cup is probably 
empty and I love you're ripe for a love 
bomber to come along and fill up your 
cup and tell you all the things and 
sweep you off your feet and all the 
things you've been craving you've been 
wanting to hear the gifts the words and 
I'm telling you when you speed things up 
too fast you're really really 
susceptible to all of that you're 
susceptible to being oxytocin bonded 
because you've slept with this person 
too quickly you're susceptible to 
missing red flags because now you're 
chemically bonded to this person and 
you've only got one option and if your 
brain and if your picker's broken you 
want to sweep all those red flags under 
the rug and just make put a round Peg 
through a square hole and make sure this 
is the one because you just don't want 
to be in the dating pool again ladies 
and Gentlemen please keep things slowly 
you know if you have listened to this 
podcast long enough and if you haven't 
go back and listen to the Sylvia foti 
the Nazi's granddaughter episodes called 
the 15-day rule we want 15 dates with 
the person over three to four months 
super slow get to know people date them 
old school okay keep things slow in the 
dating process there is no substitute 
for one thing and that's time you cannot 
take things too slowly it should be 
ramping up at a nice Pace but not 
ramping up in two to three weeks okay I 
hear other coaches and matchmakers 
talking about uh a 10-day rule over you 
know and you can go on as many dates as 
you want and all of of those things I'm 
telling you keep things slow you will 
thank me later okay you will miss red 
flags if you keep things up every one of 
my clients that has come out of divorce 
said yeah I jumped into things too 
quickly and I missed a lot of red flags 
okay now Point number eight and this is 
kind of a funny Point don't go over to 
anybody's house prematurely when we want 
to speed things up in the dating world 
we want to gather so much data and we 
want to see this person maybe you know 
this person has said oh my gosh it's 
date four I want to cook you dinner 
nobody's taking care of you let me do 
that right you go to this person's house 
right there's a bottle of wine there's 
Frank Sinatra playing in the background 
you know how that story can end oh my 
gosh I just slept with this person and I 
didn't mean to do that right or so when 
you let somebody cook you dinner they 
probably have good intentions but things 
can go too far too fast if that's sounds 
like you keep yourself out of those 
situations one hundred percent and also 
don't go over to somebody's house 
prematurely I've had that many people 
tell me well I just went over to his 
house for a couple of minutes but ugh 
his house was a disaster or you know oh 
my gosh I looked inside his refrigerator 
and there were all these leftovers and 
they looked like they could walk out of 
the fridge they were too old guys that 
is information that is known too soon 
and that is easily fixable stuff you 
cannot fix character and character 
doesn't mean do you have fresh food in 
your refrigerator and does your house 
need a little bit of fix up okay I don't 
want you to go to somebody's house 
prematurely and I don't want you to have 
somebody at your house prematurely 
either because they're gonna judge you 
and I don't want them to judge you on oh 
my God your house is way too amazing I 
can't keep up with you or ugh your house 
isn't that great either I don't want you 
getting judged for anything I am hashtag 
team you dear listener dear smart dater 
so just trust me don't go over to 
anybody's house prematurely okay 
um you'll thank me later now along with 
that rule number nine get physical if 
and only if you want to you might even 
pass 15 dates and you might not be ready 
to you know do the big bang with 
somebody you do you okay you pick a 
person that's willing to accommodate you 
there is no such thing as a three-day 
rule ladies and gentlemen don't let your 
friends that have no idea what the hell 
they're talking about make you nervous 
oh everybody's having sex out there oh 
my God if you don't put out you there's 
you're gonna lose all the good ones 
that's all absolute BS and nonsense you 
take the physical aspect only at the 
pace you want to go at okay and remember 
if you haven't listened to the safe sex 
episode that I did with Dr Lauren 
Striker a couple of episodes ago please 
listen to that before you decide that 
you're going to do the three-day Rule 
and jump into the sack with somebody 
okay there's no pressure to do anything 
and a good partner for you will respect 
you and your boundaries and if somebody 
is making you feel badly because you're 
not going fast enough guess what they 
might not be the right person for you 
and that might be a red flag that you're 
missing right now okay and finally roll 
tip number 10 only take advice from 
people who can guide you correctly this 
might resonate with you so many people 
think they can take advice from their 
married friends so many people think 
they can take advice from their best 
friends so many people think they can 
take advice from their single friends 
I'm gonna tell you this if you broke 
your leg would you ask your neighbor who 
is an electrician how to fix your leg no 
you would go to an orthopedic surgeon 
conversely if your electricity went out 
you wouldn't ask your orthopedic surgeon 
to come over and fix your breaker right 
you would call an electrician in this 
realm please please please 
stop listening to the people in your 
life that are coming from a good place 
they come from a place of Love they want 
the best for you but they also might be 
telling you what you want to hear or 
they might be telling you anecdotal 
things from their own experience which 
don't make them true that's just their 
experience only take advice from people 
that have your best interest at heart 
and our professionals and can guide you 
correctly like I said your friends your 
family don't get me wrong I'm throwing 
no shade they mean well but they don't 
know how to do this they don't know how 
to navigate the dating World in today's 
day and age this Rule n goes back to 
rule number two hire someone to help you 
to do this you don't have to do this 
alone and what I want you to know 
is that if you are dating after divorce 
right 
you too can be a love story go back and 
listen to some of the episodes like 
Andrea javer who found love after 
divorce Sylvia foti who found love after 
divorce sugar found love after divorce 
Marilyn Found Love after two divorces I 
promise you getting the help that you 
need from whomever it is that you trust 
will help you through this process and I 
hope that you are inspired and you're 
feeling a little bit psychotically 
optimistic because you've gotten some 
good nuggets and you know that love 
exists for you out there it's a one it's 
not an if and I've given you 10 rules to 
make sure that you don't end up in that 
second or third or fourth fourth divorce 
statistic so if this resonates with you 
please share this episode everywhere you 
can on your social media rate our 
podcast give us five stars tell us what 
you loved about this we're always here 
here to help you sign up for a 
consultation go to 
smartdatingacademy.com if you need the 
help if you've been listening for a 
while and you're finally like God I need 
to take this step and I need to do this 
for me and I want to be like all these 
other people out there that find healthy 
happy love maybe your pic your picker 
needs fixing that is our superpower 
reach out schedule a session nothing 
would make me happier than being your 
personal Fairy Godmother in dating and 
love so until next week I bid you 
farewell and I wish you a week Full Of 
Love full of psychotic optimism and full 
of great dates see you soon 


Kathy has found love and she is 71 years 
old I just want you all to hear her 
story because for those of you who need 
hope you tell yourselves man there's 
nobody left at my age I'm bringing Kathy 
on here to dispel all of those Bad 
Monkey mind thoughts I got to be 70. I 
kind of took stock and thought what do I 
have left here and so I thought you know 
what I am going to invest in myself and 
I thought this is my last shot if I 
can't do it now then I guess my ex maybe 
he's right maybe I'm not so lovable that 
was me one year ago and how my life has 
changed in one year I never would have 
believed it never I still don't believe 
it I I I'm 
I'm Amazed 


Charlie Capps who is now Holly caps 
Casey because y'all Hallie just got 
married and she's going to tell you the 
story of how she started with one of our 
love Labs I never did date well I did 
what I knew how to do which was I'd meet 
somebody that I was interested in that I 
was attracted to and then I'd stop 
seeing anybody else one of the podcasts 
I had stumbled on was this is 50 and one 
of the things they were talking about 
was dating and that's when they were 
talking about you and I became aware of 
the love lab and of your coaching and of 
Smart dating Academy and then there was 
a certain man named David who came into 
your inbox from the first date it was 
very easy conversation it felt safe and 
it felt right and it has felt safe and 
it has felt right the whole time that is 
David he's the most thoughtful wonderful 
man I have ever met every tribulation 
and every painful dating experience I 
ever went through was worth it to find 
him 


I've learned don't get too excited about 
the pictures you see in 
profiles you get together for coffee and 
you see a person walk into the 
restaurant you go that can't be him it 
doesn't look back her picture at all and 
then 3 minutes later you get a phone 
call where are you I said I'm in the 
restaurant he said told him I guess what 
it was the woman who came by oh I'm 10 
years older than my picture and you know 
I kind of understand that sometime 
because women if they say they're older 
they say they're late 70s or 80 maybe 
they won't receive any invitations from 
EV so I'm not too critical of them but 
both men and women have to be aware that 
the pictures they're looking at may be 
extremely outdated one sent me a picture 
and I looked at I said oh my gosh I got 
to meet her I'm met her the picture she 
sent me was of her daughter 41 years old 
come on both men and women have to be 
ready for 
that 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find l 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to this week's episode of 
the Smart dating Academy podcast I am so 
excited that you are here and I'm even 
more excited to present to you a total 
Rockstar 
attorney my friend Marilyn chinit who is 
a partner at blank Rome with 40 years of 
experience in literally every facet of 
family law divorce law she's worked with 
some biggies I'm going to let her tell 
you about that Marilyn welcome to the 
Smart dating Academy podcast so glad 
you're here God when I heard that number 
of 40 oh it's like wow she's old you're 
not old oh my gosh for those of you that 
are listening go back and look at the 
reals look at the YouTube video this 
woman is drop dead gorgeous when we 
logged on I said my gosh Marilyn what 
are you doing to anti-age so um listen 
to words she says so Len with all those 
years I think I've learned quite a bit 
and um and that's what 
created my practice that's what created 
the longevity I have with my 
clients um and it's a wonderful it's 
been a wonderful Journey 41 years it's 
been terrific and I hope I can do a lot 
more oh absolutely and tell us just you 
know feel free to drop a few names at 
the listeners because you are a trusted 
you are a 
trusted family member to so many people 
without a doubt you know I mean I I 
think I'm really really blessed because 
I love what I do and I didn't start out 
doing matrimonial law I started out as a 
corporate litigator and then was asked 
by one of the partners to quietly do his 
divorce and in those days it was fault 
grounds and that means that you had to 
prove adultery or abandonment or neglect 
or cruel and inhuman treatment so you 
got all the salacious details of 
someone's life life coupled with 
information concerning finances and 
assets and 
valuations I jumped into it and I ended 
up loving it and so I then asked the law 
firm where I was at could we do 
matrimonial law and they kind of hemmed 
and hard and they met with the partner 
board and ultimately they said no it's 
like ambulance chasing we won't do that 
unfortunately for them they they 
imploded I'm still here and then I 
decided switching over to matrimonial 
law was right up my alley so I've built 
a practice over the years um and 
fortunately have met some Extraordinary 
People I I can mention some names 
because they've been in the in the 
public eye so I represented Tom Cruz and 
his 
divorce um and that was a very 
interesting divorce because literally we 
worked around the clock for seven days 
and ultimately settled the 
case place in seven days but literally 
247 everything else was kind of put 
aside because we had to get this case 
resolved and we did um and Tom Cruz had 
a wonderful attorney Bert fields in La 
who flew in and helped us unfortunately 
he passed away um but that was quite an 
extraordinary experience he was 
one really cool guy and a very 
appreciative human 
being so yeah I really enjoyed working 
with him one thing that was really 
interesting and I'll share it he said to 
me I want to be able to speak to my 
daughter every single day for no less 
than 45 minutes and I said whatat are 
you going to talk to a little 
six-year-old about for 45 minutes 
and he said well no matter where I am in 
the world I'm going to shut down the set 
and I'm G to call her and I expect for 
you to make sure that I have that 45 
minutes and we did and she took his call 
every day I said to him what is the 
secret how did you get her and he said I 
dummied down the movie that I was 
working on and I left her at a 
cliffhanger so that she'd want to talk 
to me the next day and fig and find out 
what was story was I thought that was 
brilliant that is really smart that wish 
I was a producer then I could get my 
teams to talk to me every I thought that 
was so clever um and then the most 
wonderful human being uh that I 
represented is um Michael 
Douglas I represented Michael in 
connection with the lawsuit that Deandra 
brought to um get a second bite at the 
Apple when my Micha came out with Wall 
Street too that was an asset that was 
distributed in their divorce but uh she 
did not have any kind of residual rights 
so we litigated that and got that kicked 
out of New York which was great um wow 
Wendy Williams who was such a I don't 
want to say was but she's a fabulous 
talented talk host um who really built a 
tremendous career and sadly uh got sick 
and and we don't see her on the show 
anymore but what a Dynamo very very 
Dynamic so I've been blessed with other 
wonderful celebrities wonderful people 
who may not be 
celebrities um I've represented large 
hedge fund managers private Equity 
regular spectacular women who've devoted 
themselves to the marriage and really 
focused in on their children 
uh intelligent brilliant women and so 
I've had a great array of very 
interesting people and so I love what I 
do because 
matrimonial is not 
just about dividing assets and and and 
separating people and the psychology it 
also involves trust in estate you have 
to have a really strong tax background 
and valuing different assets are so 
interesting 
understand how do you value a hedge fund 
a limited partner a business a law 
practice so in those years I've been 
able to accumulate number one a great 
group of of professionals therapists uh 
private 
investigators um forensic 
accountants um and so with all that 
wealth what I love now is to share that 
wealth and and that is the sustaining 
factor in my in my practice I 
think that's why you have this glow you 
love what you do and there's no glow 
like that I do I really I I honestly I 
married 38 years believe it or not I 
wake up happy every day and I feel very 
blessed every day because I think if 
everybody has their health their kids 
are are healthy you've got it all 
there's nothing there's nothing you can 
accomplish 
and so with that 
mentality I I I turn the faucet on every 
day right and just help people get to 
the next best chapter of their lives 
yeah and and there are a lot of good 
chapters out there and I see it every 
day you know Bella I do a lunch and I've 
invited you uh every April you are 
coming and what I it's 60 women and 
their former clients they current 
clients they're plastic surgeons they're 
business people president of 
Zimmerman um artists I mean such a great 
collection and they get there at like 
12:30 they leave at like 5:30 and they 
all they all have the best time meeting 
each other women are very um very 
generous I 
find um not always sometimes 
professional women are not always so G 
generous um but for the most part women 
want to 
share you know all their all their 
knowledge and they want to share their 
advice and I think it's a great thing so 
that platform is so much fun because 
that's exactly what we do and we 
celebrate we have fun well I'm coming 
you send me the date it's going to 
beend and I will be there until I will 
be the one to shut the lights off and 
that you and me both we'll do it 
together all right girl we'll be each 
other's dates well you know we were 
talking a little bit before we turn the 
record button on about all these 
fantastic women you've represented many 
of them right and why there's so many 
women that just you know kind of resign 
themselves to saying I don't think 
there's anybody out there for me like 
what do you see on that side of the 
spectrum well it's so it's very very 
interesting 
um I'm going to I hate to put people in 
categories but women who have had wealth 
around them are very on guard and very 
careful about bringing a partner into 
their life for fear that they're being 
used that that that person is there just 
for their financial 
circumstances that's not often the case 
at all and so those women who I've 
celed end up 
passing potentially some really good 
uh people that may not be interested in 
materialistic but they have a love of 
culture they have a love of art they 
have a love of 
traveling and you're measuring your bank 
account thinking that they're measuring 
your bank account and they're not and so 
you don't let those opportunities go by 
because you know as we get older we 
really refine the important things in 
our life right friendship is really 
important uh sex may be super important 
health is number one yeah and as we get 
older we should not just dismiss people 
because they don't have a tremendous 
amount of money but they may have a 
tremendous amount of wealth in other 
areas and so I like when women focus in 
on that and I'm beginning to see more 
and more of that um which I think is 
terrific I see that all the time I mean 
we get women that let's just say have 
high net worth for whatever reason right 
and they'll come to us saying I don't 
want to be a nurse I don't want to be a 
purse and and I've heard that Y and you 
know and men can when men will come to 
us we coach men and women and say well 
you know I just and they have net worth 
and well I don't want any gold diggers I 
said but if you're leading with your 
wealth right exactly that's what's going 
to happen and so what I can tell you is 
if you're listening to this you don't 
have to lead with your wealth good 
people that want to love you and adore 
you and you'll do the same back to them 
they're not looking at your balance 
sheet compared to their balance sheet 
right they're not keeping score Marilyn 
my my advice to my clients male or 
female right this person will never 
match you dollar per dollar do they 
really need to as long as they can pay 
their own way what more do you want and 
and also Bella you know you're talking 
to a matrimonial lawyer there are so 
many ways to protect your wealth yes and 
so you could have a prenuptual agreement 
you can set up trusts there are many 
ways that Shield your wealth if that's 
what your concern is that you're going 
to be um you know with somebody just 
because you're going to take care care 
of them financially it doesn't have to 
be that way and so there are many 
many you know ways that we protect our 
wealth and there's nothing wrong with it 
the law actually provides for that so 
that if you're coming into a second 
marriage you have assets that you 
acquired long before that marriage 
you're entitled to protect it the law 
protects it so having a prenup is not an 
offensive thing you know and then the 
other interesting thing is um someone I 
know was married for 30 
years both of them were professional 
highly 
successful and the husband had decided 
that he was not happy and he wanted to 
exit the marriage and he did it in a 
very respectful way they separated they 
got divorced they you know they they 
divided their assets and lo and behold 
four months later the wife former wife 
started dating very quickly and she just 
got 
engaged and I thought that was 
extraordinary beautiful right so she's 
starting a whole new life and it didn't 
negate the value of the life that she 
had with her husband and three children 
it just gave her a new platform very 
different from her 
husband um that opens up other doors and 
no one can sit judgment 
right no no one has a right to sit 
judgment if if you know I got text 
messages wow can you believe that she's 
engaged and I said well why not just 
congratulate her I think that's 
fantastic oh I hope she knows what she's 
doing she's an adult she's a 
professional she found somebody happy so 
let's be happy for her um and that's a 
wonderful thing so some people are ready 
to take the plunge 
immediately it wouldn't be my first 
choice because I think when you end a 
marriage it's an 
opportunity at exploring so many new 
things new 
people and yourself and yourself because 
you forget yourself right you're always 
at the bottom of the of of the uh stick 
there you forget yourself some people 
that I know you know they didn't have a 
chance to travel they they didn't have a 
chance to find an art class or go to the 
museum and all of a sudden life is 
opening up and you know what they're 
taking an art class now they just met 
somebody who's interesting and you know 
they're they're now dating um I think 
every place is an 
opportunity if you have the 
mentality yeah if you come in with a bag 
you know all your baggage and your 
luggage and your 
insecurities it's going to be 
challenging but if you kind of free it 
and I know your platform is a great 
platform to help people people if you 
free yourself up and just enjoy the 
moment the experience you just don't 
know what's going to happen I'm going to 
give you a very interesting example and 
I just took oh I can't wait to hear all 
right so last night I I went to this 
beautiful I mentioned it to you it was a 
Gala the Angel Ball Gala and I took one 
of my clients and and uh her divorce was 
uh two months ago and I said okay we 
can't be late because my client is being 
honored and I want to go to the cocktail 
party so she picked me up and we got 
there about 10 minutes 
early and 
um it was cold in New York yesterday 
last night I had a jacket she didn't 
behind us was this gentleman and he said 
it's cold and I said yes it's very cold 
my friend is freezing and he said well 
let me take off my coat and give it to 
her and she said no no no that's okay 
and I said no could you give her your 
coat yeah take it he put it on her and 
we struck up this fantastic 
conversation and it led to you know what 
he does and he invited us to his Studio 
at another time and it was it it 
created a very lovely introduction and 
and maybe a friendship but certainly 
something that was interesting enough to 
continue a dialogue so I'm a believer 
that if you're open you can you can you 
can have a 
dialogue and and there are people out 
there that I think are very interesting 
may not be the person that you end up 
with but you can have you know a lot of 
new people in your life if you let if 
you let yourself open to it if you're 
open your up open yourself up you're 
right and it's kind of this having this 
yes 
mentality right and it's the fact that 
most people are good people and if you 
look at the world from that lens I'm not 
saying the polyana but yeah if somebody 
strikes up a conversation with you and 
you're cold and he offers his coat take 
the coat it's not a an engagement ring 
it's somebody TR to be nice to you and 
accept that gesture and it forms a 
little bond between the two of you right 
people like to help 
right we all want 
to% makes us feel so good yeah so and 
you never know I tell my clients say yes 
to everything good that comes your way 
because you never know even if you go 
have coffee with that person they may 
not they may turn into a friend that you 
can have Sunday brunch with and they may 
end up fixing you up with absolutely 
your pot a 
th% so 
th% you never you never know when that 
person's going to come along but if it's 
what I would encourage you to do my dear 
listener is ask yourself am I a yes 
person do I look at everything in front 
of me with hope and with opportunity 
versus do I look at it with Dread and 
disdain and negativity and wondering how 
I'm going to get screwed or if and you 
can you're the only person that can 
answer that question but if you feel 
like yeah you know I could stand a 
little bit of your psychotic optimism 
Bella I'm spraying it to you across the 
speakers here so look at people as good 
people and approach the world in that 
way because you know what it just is a 
hell of a lot more fun it is and there 
are safe places to meet people right so 
you know if you're a theater person if 
you like going to the museums there are 
courses there are programs 
and you know there are I love s bees in 
New York because you can walk around and 
look at all the beautiful art and then 
they have a a little cafe and people sit 
at the cafe and they sit by themselves 
and you know I know once I was there and 
and somebody said is anybody sitting 
there and I said no and and it was not 
it wasn't a come on it was just a nice 
person striking up a 
conversation and it ended up that we 
knew people in common but that's how 
your World grows and I think the whole 
point of it of this is how do you let 
your world grow as opposed to closing 
the walls how do you expand them how do 
you take down the walls so that you have 
opportunities to meet people wherever 
you go and I think there are so many 
opportunities um but it all it's in your 
control it's in your control that's 
right and so and it's an easy thing to 
change ladies and gentlemen 
it is and you know there are some I 
always say there are some I love this 
beautiful women out there six 
spectacular models who are so insecure 
about the way they look and then there 
are other women who I think are 
beautiful but they're not like they're 
normal beautiful they're normal but when 
you get to know them and it's the same 
for a man when you get to know them you 
see all of their beauty come out and 
different way and so you only get that 
message two points on that number one 
insecurity is the worst thing that you 
that you can have and it and it takes a 
lot of work to to break you know we all 
have insecurity it all comes from our 
parents you know it comes from our 
background um but breaking that away is 
so critically important I think um and 
then thinking that 99% of the population 
is insecure so I got to walk into that 
room like a Powerhouse cuz then people 
are going to look at you and and and and 
and feel it they feel the energy that 
you pass on they also feel the 
negativity you want to hear a mantra 
that I learned in my 20s that has never 
left me yeah I was thrust into 
leadership at a very young age in a 
family business and was then dealing 
with clients globally and I learn 
something and I teach this to everybody 
that will listen expect 
acceptance was a very good one that's 
great every time you walk into a door 
you tell yourself I belong in this room 
yeah and that's it and it flips even if 
you don't really believe it yes you just 
say I belong here expect acceptance 
because as soon as you do that you 
become a different version of you we're 
all diamonds right we have different 
facets so the facet that you want to 
spin Face Forward 
is I belong here just like you do and I 
know you're going to accept me because I 
accept you and when you come in with 
that Vibe with that jqu you become 
magnetic you bag right insec Y and then 
you're the equal and maybe you're a 
little beyond the equal um you know and 
Eclipse but that's exactly right I 
always had this image I try to explain 
to my my kids my daughter is a lawyer my 
son is at at Duke business school and 
they said Mom I don't know how you keep 
going you like work like a dog all day 
seven days a week then you go out at 
night and you and I said I feel like you 
know that little ragd doll that you you 
turn the doll and and she goes up up up 
up up up up right stands straight up and 
she's Full Speed Ahead and then she 
comes home and then she goes back down 
and I said but if you can keep getting 
up every day and doing that you are 
ahead of the game you're ahead of the 
game and so it's not that the body 
doesn't ache the mind doesn't ache the 
stresses are not there is that you've 
cleared the path and said this is where 
I have to go and you go and you just 
don't have a choice and it's as simple 
as that I'm not very sympathetic when 
when when I can't I can't I can and I 
just yeah you can and we're going to 
we're going to you know we'll do it 
together and I see it with my associates 
how do you get out there in Market how 
do you bring in business come on let's 
go and and and we'll go and we'll do it 
naturally because there's no formula per 
se it's all within your your body it's 
within your head and your heart and so 
you you you look to people who can give 
you that guidance because a lot of 
people really don't have it they don't 
have the mentorship they don't have the 
guidance they may not have the parents 
they may not have the best friend so you 
look to professionals who can help you 
and those are gems those are resources 
and you take even if you take just a 
little of that advice and incorporate it 
into your World it it it's it's a wealth 
of information gamechanging it's 
absolutely game changing and then 
another tip I'm going to give which I I 
found through my life has been very very 
helpful are we on radio only no we're on 
video too okay I'm gonna show you a book 
this is every day every single day I 
write down things I have to do take care 
of because when we're busy in our life 
we have so many things and there are 
thing you too there you 
go Bella how did I know you were gonna 
have the same book and it's sitting 
right here my exactly right always the 
book what's that great satisfaction of 
Crossing off something that we 
accomplished and you don't have to have 
your long list you can have five things 
for the week that you want to accomplish 
write them down out and by Sunday night 
I hope that you've crossed off those 
five 
things and and to me that's that's also 
a great 
motivator you know I in the last in 2024 
I have started to make two 
lists I was a big one list vomit 
everything on one piece of paper have it 
all down sometimes I'd Circle the 
priority things now I do two things 
right 
there's tasky things that we just have 
to do that you're like H but they take 
up a lot of our day I make sure that 
every day I write down three to five 
things that will make me proud to have 
done so tell me what they give me a 
sense of what they may be so well let me 
let me flip back here um I have one 
called intentions and this was from 
yesterday you could see the list didn't 
all get scratched out here it will by 
Sunday it will I'll tell you what it 
said look for what's going 
right this is a new mantra I heard 
somebody talking about this last month 
every time you walk through a doorway 
it's a prompt for you and think about in 
your own house there's many doorways you 
stop and you go what's going right and 
instead of waiting until the end of the 
day to write that gratitude list have 
you paused and said to yourself three to 
four times in a day what's going 
right it has been gamechanging I'm a 
pretty positive person anyway but our 
brains are wired to have a negativity 
bias right it's survival we want to look 
for what's wrong so we don't get eaten 
by the tiger or bitten by the 
rattlesnake and instead when you just 
stop and say what's going right oh my 
God 11 things come to mind immediately 
about what's going right and it and it 
makes you feel good 
in that zone of positivity and the 
reason for those of you watching it's 
not scratched out is because you don't 
do it one time I just want it front and 
center on the things that are going to 
make me proud all the time like didn't 
help me gosh it's helping me so much to 
look that's great I've got to I I've got 
to implement that I think 
about who can I help today 
love that besides my clients so I I am 
the go-to person when somebody needs 
something and and that's a great role 
that I that I was able to achieve 
whether it's medical advice do you know 
a good doctor do you know a good 
coach um and to provide that 
information because if you can become a 
resource for people you know you feel 
good and there is science to this when 
you do an act of kindness you feel good 
about yourself yes there is a 
scientific um basis in your body what 
whatever it is that your body produces 
that when you do something nice for 
somebody it makes you feel good and it 
could be the simplest thing Ed who runs 
the lobby downstairs in our big time ink 
building came over to me one day he said 
I love your attitude tell me your name 
and I told him and he told me his name 
and every morning as soon as I walk 
in Hi Marilyn how Ed how are you how's 
your family you you can't imagine how 
you turn somebody's life on just by 
simple things because people feel like 
they've been neglected and ignored by 
the 
public and you let them know that 
they're important takes so little but 
it's very very nice and it and it gets 
commented by other people that come in 
the lobby that was really nice I didn't 
know his name I see him every day um 
again it's forward you do and it's ways 
to make life I think so much nicer 
because we do have so many stressors out 
there that if you can focus in on what I 
can be proud of and what my intention is 
you put out all that negativity and 
you're focusing in on the good stuff and 
that's the driver 
that that's when you're at the Helm of 
the 
ship it's so true and I think just when 
you switch your energy into that I have 
a friend who did an exercise and she 
said you know when you walk through an 
airport or you're walking on the street 
you're like oh look at that person that 
guy needs to cut his beard off or 
whatever the that Negative Nancy that 
lives in our brains and she said I'm 
going to do this experiment and I'm 
going to every person that I see just 
silently I'm going to tell myself a good 
story about that person so instead of 
you know the guy with the 
Harley-Davidson long beard she says you 
know what I bet he is the fun 
uncle and she's got to be very 
perceptive that's a very good way 
because I I get that and she started to 
notice how much even because she was 
just doing these things in her mind that 
people started 
she's like I would go into restaurants 
and I would think to myself I bet you 
that waitress is the kindest grandmother 
and keeps like two twins on her knees at 
all times suddenly she says you know 
what the waitress just said you know 
what you look like a nice person your 
check is on 
me and she wasn't even saying that 
because she was creating these she gave 
the vibe but the 
energy just the sheer en energ of 
telling yourself a good story about 
another human changes your own the way 
you are perceived by others so try to do 
this and it's I will tell you what it's 
so much more fun because you'll find 
your brain giving you a little dopamine 
squeeze when you say I bet you that guy 
is the fun Uncle because when you think 
about the fun Uncle who doesn't like the 
fun uncle right absolutely yeah 
in that she picked up the vibe so your 
friend who was you know clearly giving 
off some message and it was received and 
that's the whole point about dating too 
you know when you date or when you when 
you are in a group with people it's you 
project certain things and that's what 
makes you interesting attractive 
somebody talk to and and and again it's 
all within your control 
and those are the things that we learn 
every day we get so busy in life you 
know we're moving so quickly um and 
sometimes you just got to take a pause 
and think about things and when you do 
and change maybe pivot just a little 
then a whole bunch of new stuff happens 
um that's why I think waking up every 
day is such a privilege I mean the 
greatest blessing at night is that you 
wake up in the day in the morning so 
what do you you going to make out of 
that day right you got that blessing 
what are you going to make out of that 
day you got to be something 
good I love that I you know I have a 
question just because we're like in this 
mode of positivity and you're right and 
you're saying that just sparked a story 
of a woman that I worked with that my 
team worked with um a couple of years 
ago that came to us she was 71 when she 
signed on with us and she's like you're 
my last hope and I'm like we are not 
your last hope and she said by the way 
I'm not a size two I'm curvy and who's 
going to love me I'm old and I'm heavy 
absolute nonsense the most beautiful 
spirit inside and out and she met this 
amazing guy online and we coached her 
and he is the perfect lid to her pot 
unexpected package when you're looking 
for the things that matter he's 
completely an unexpected package and 
they're having what's called a 
commitment s ceremony my question is 
that a thing legally or is that just 
like so that's interesting that you say 
is that a thing legally tomorrow I'm 
speaking with two judges about whether 
or not are you really married so there 
are cases where you may have had the 
ceremony but you have to have somebody 
officiate the 
ceremony and then you did not send in 
your marriage certificate it was never 
sent in so are you legally 
married um and so there are there a 
whole slew of cases now but if you have 
a commitment ceremony it's not a wedding 
ceremony it's not a marriage right it 
just it's not a marriage it's I 
committing myself to you and I ask that 
you do the same but you don't have the 
marriage certificate 
you do not have if you if you do not 
have somebody officiating that 
ceremony 
um then it's not a marriage and you're 
not thinking that you're married you're 
calling it a commitment you're not 
calling it I'm married and we are 
committed so I think those ceremonies 
are beautiful uh I I I actually my 
husband said and God willing we're 
healthy and okay 40 years and 2 years 
we're going to do a beautiful ceremony a 
um which I think is very very sweet but 
people like to reate their vows or they 
want to say I'm committed to you but 
it's not legally BL 
binding um I said blinding it's not 
legally binding binding but it's 
important that people know that they're 
committed and and you know I find that 
couples who have been together in 
Sweden um they have a thing called 
sambba where you're not 
married but you've been together you 
hold yourself out as husband and wife 
you have children together but you're 
not legally 
married however you do have the rights 
as a married person as a spouse as a 
spouse in New York we do not recognize 
common law marriage so you could be 
living together with somebody holding 
yourself at as husband and wife 
um but you can be together for 20 30 
years and you have no legal rights 
whatsoever not to property not to 
support 
Etc um but if you move to another 
state that recognizes common law and 
you've lived there and you're a common 
law couple there and you come to New 
York then you are married 
then New York will recognize 
that so this is just me conjecturing 
here if with all of the protections that 
exist you can have prenups you can have 
postnups you can have all of these 
things and if somebody wants to be 
together and they have a commitment 
ceremony what is the fear of marriage is 
it 
finances is it like I'm just curious 
from from an attorney's perspective like 
what's the there there 
so I you know I just uh I think I I 
previously mentioned to you I have set 
up three 
couples um two of whom got 
married and 
one they met they're both in their 
60s um they have children from from 
their prior 
marriages they don't want to get married 
they live together they don't want the 
obligation of of I don't want to say 
obligation they don't want the financial 
responsibility of state issues and so in 
the case I I'm very I met I the husband 
the the boyfriend is has been a friend 
of mine for 40 years and the woman was a 
client of mine and I introduced them and 
uh they have the most loving wonderful 
relationship but he has three kids from 
his marriage and he has 
grandchildren and no doubt he will be 
extremely generous but it was important 
for him to keep everything separate yeah 
and they will probably stay 
together until their last breath I mean 
they are so in love and and because they 
have that love and commitment she'll be 
protected no question but he did not 
want that legal uh element to it and 
explain to his children and so forth and 
then they would have a difficult time 
taking her in as a stepmother it's 
complicated so it's a beautiful 
relationship that the kids love and 
respect and they're very happy so they 
don't need to get married in that 
situation that's great and they both 
were fine with it they both were fine 
with it I'm doing a prenup for a couple 
now he's 84 years old and she's 
66 and they do want to get married and 
so we're working on a 
prenup um you know Different Strokes for 
different folks and so sometimes people 
feel like I I want to be married I want 
that blue more than just a commitment I 
want to know that person is is my 
spouse and that psychologically is a lot 
is is Meaningful to them 
totally so it varies that's interesting 
I was wondering like I hear more and 
more about commitment ceremonies I'm 
like what does it mean legally it 
doesn't mean anything it's a good party 
it's a good party you get a great Ring 
maybe you exchange Rings you live 
together exactly whatever it means but 
and if you later get married that ring 
is your separate property by the way 
never in maror to last it um oh my gosh 
everybody needs Marilyn in their speed 
dial to ask how I start thinking oh my 
gosh I can't help myself oh my gosh well 
are there any last things that you want 
to impart to our dear listener with your 
wealth of experience with you know 
humans for the last you know 40 
years I think Making Connections every 
single day is is that beautiful string 
and you don't want you don't want to 
break that chain if you just have one 
link to the chain you're so denying 
yourself all these wonderful things so 
if you can imagine every day I'm going 
to create another link think about what 
that link is going to be it could be a 
connection to an old friend it could be 
a connection to a neighbor whatever that 
link is create a link and and then I 
think you've adorned yourself with the 
most beautiful J Jewel 
imaginable um I think life is so 
fantastic if you take advantage of it I 
mean when I said to you I'm an optimist 
I am I I want to continue waking up 
every day happy and going to bed feeling 
I did the best I could may not be 
perfect but that's okay I paid my taxes 
and I did the best I could right and who 
can I help today I love that about you 
yeah and it could be anybody in nuclear 
you know Circle it could be beyond that 
um I'm blessed I have two adorable 
little grandchildren so if I can help my 
daughter who works nonstop to have a few 
hours to take a break I'm going to take 
those Little Cuties um and so it could 
be somebody close to you and it could be 
somebody far is she a matrimonial lawyer 
just like Mama no she wanted to uh when 
she graduated law school said I want to 
do matrimonial can I come work with you 
and I said nope absolutely not and she 
said why and I said because number one 
if you're going to learn I'm not going 
to cuddle you you've got to learn so if 
you scw up you've got to own up and so 
she went to work for a matrimonial firm 
she loved the people she hated 
matrimonial and she came back to me and 
she said I don't know Mom you made it 
look So Glamorous it's miserable the 
lawyers yell at you the Dodges yell at 
you the clients yell at you it's 
horrible so she ended up leaving 
matrimonial and then she became uh she 
she was Ellen degenerous as lawyer doing 
her branding and Licensing and and so 
she's now created and built her own firm 
with another woman and uh two other 
partners and they do all of us branding 
licensing and IP work and I'm so so 
proud of her you must be yes I really am 
really proud of her that she decided to 
just go out on her own and do it and 
there was a time a month ago she said oh 
Mom you know I have't I have the a lot 
of new clients but I need a a flurry and 
I said it will come she said should I go 
in house and I said no stick where you 
are and just keep on doing it so I have 
no doubt she's going to be a great 
success and I'm really really proud of 
her yeah okay so sharing here my 
daughter was between her sophomore and 
junior year in college that and she's a 
finance 
major she worked at a matrimonial Law 
Firm this summer they her instead of a 
law clerk she was because of her Finance 
background it was a tiny woman-owned 
firm and she went in for an interview 
and they said you understand finances 
she 
says she and this woman and her partner 
like most attorneys don't understand 
finance and in matrimonial law it's all 
Finance she says well yeah I'm going to 
be a finance major can you do excel she 
said I've taken three Excel classes can 
you do PowerPoint and my daughter wrote 
a book and they said could you write 
introductions for the case she wrote a 
book she yeah in high school she's 20 
now she wrote it when she was 16 so 
she's unbelievable a novelist out of her 
head but she doesn't want to be a writer 
because she's like if I if that was myob 
job I would hate it so she worked at a 
matrimonial law firm and I will tell you 
what not only did she love the work now 
for the first time she's gonna study for 
the elsat so fantastic so so where do 
she live she well when she's in school 
she lives with me in Chicago but she's 
at school at Indiana and their business 
at Kelly business school so you got to 
get her to call me or come meet me she I 
will bring her to New York and abs she 
would literally she loved it and I had 
lunch with her the partner that she 
worked for the owner of the firm and 
they said she came up with these 
insights and she was just I was so proud 
of her so I can only imagine for you 
having daughter start her own firm to 
have my daughter working at a firm and 
with a woman who you know she's has her 
own little firm and it was just look how 
did something out of her comfort zone 
that had nothing that she knew had 
nothing to do with what she was doing 
and now she fell in love with possibly 
the idea of going to law school that's 
the whole point right you've got to get 
out of comfort zone try something 
because you never know what door is 
going to open up and I think that's a 
perfect example she should definitely 
come meet me I would love to meet her oh 
that's that's great well you know I said 
to you before it's it's not just about 
dividing assets and support and things 
like that in custody all very important 
but it's about understanding tax issues 
finances valuation issues and and you 
know that's really right up her alley 
you need a good stomach to do your work 
you were doing God's work and I know now 
know that because I lived with it for 
three months so um it's not for the 
faint and weak that's no Marilyn you are 
the most delightful human being I oh 
Bella I love meeting you and I love what 
you're doing with all the wonderful 
people and clients that you work with 
because it's such an incredible service 
and you know it there are not many 
people who have that um experience and 
knowledge and compassion and that's what 
you have so you are a very you very 
unique 
resource well and you are a unique 
unicorn in your world thank you I'm so 
glad our paths crossed I really am so am 
I so am I well smart daters if you're 
not feeling positive and elevated and 
like you're going to say yes and you're 
going to create good stories about 
people and you're going to look for the 
connections and look for what's good I 
don't know what the heck's going to 
inspire you because I feel like I'm 
walking 6 in off the ground right now so 
if you love this episode with Marilyn 
rate it five five stars write us a love 
note I read every single one share it 
with everyone you know that there is 
life after divorce and it can be more 
beautiful than your life has ever been 
that's great absolutely B thank 
you thank you and smart daters until our 
next episode I bid you a week full of 
love and optimism and intention and 
intention hell yes thanks again Mar 
thank you 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your life smart taters 
welcome back I am so excited to be here 
for you today and to introduce an 
extraordinary person to you her name is 
Jody Lavoy Jody is a widow Jody is an 
entrepreneur Jody is a coach she's a 
mother of three people Jody is an active 
dater more importantly Jody is not only 
a client at Smart dating Academy but is 
a dear friend of mine who is here to 
share with you what her journey in her 
life has been which I know many of you 
will find pieces of this that you will 
relate to and you will put Jody in your 
heart forever and Jody's going to tell 
us our story her story 
um and what it's like to date as a widow 
what it's like for her and tips for all 
of us as to what to do and what not to 
do if you're dating a widow or widower 
so Jody welcome to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast I'm so excited to talk 
to you today thanks Bella I'm excited to 
talk to you on the podcast and always 
and you guys before I begin Jody is an 
incredibly humble person but she's a 
total badass entrepreneur 
leader she's really an extraordinary 
human being so I'm just gonna proceed 
with that so and now I'm gonna ask her 
to tell you her story but I really want 
you to listen with those years because 
this is truly an amazing human being 
tell us you Jody tell us about 
your life your marriage and and we'll 
let's just go 
well I guess I'll start with my marriage 
I met my late husband on a blind date 
and it was a blind date 
through a dating matchmaking service 
and because there wasn't really online 
dating back in the late 90s thank you 
everybody for dating myself here but 
we're all good hey we're all children of 
the 90s right that's right and we were 
set up I live in outside of Chicago and 
we were set up at a restaurant in 
Chicago Catch 35 it still exists today 
and I I brought a prop Bella for this 
even though I love it because it's a 
podcast but my husband to be was wearing 
this hat 
oh my god oh if you guys could see it 
maybe we're gonna put a little we'll try 
and get a screenshot of it in there but 
it's like a Russian how do you describe 
it one of those yeah is it a Babushka I 
don't know why I always thought that's 
what it was I don't know it's a Russian 
black fur hat and it's February in 
Chicago so it makes sense but not a 
first date hat you probably wouldn't 
tell your clients but I like to wear 
that on a date and I found that so 
endearing I think and I would say it 
certainly wasn't love at first sight 
but he intrigued me and he just had this 
big 
big like a really big presence about him 
that made me I I prepared for our second 
date Bella we were going to the Art 
Institute I'm like I better research 
what are we seeing so I can you know 
have some very intelligent things to say 
just because he he had that kind of 
presence about him and I really I loved 
that piece of him as well 
and so we we went on dating 
um for Let's see we dated for about a 
year and a half and there was a time I 
actually put a deadline on okay if we're 
gonna not gonna move this relationship 
forward that's okay but let us come 
together at you know in a year and a 
half and make that decision because I 
wanted to have children and 
if if he wasn't going to be my person 
um which I certainly hoped he was going 
to be and he was then I'd want to make 
that decision so anyway that time came 
we got engaged on my birthday which is a 
day that I was a little cuckoo about my 
birthday Bella because it's right before 
Christmas and as a Christmas baby my mom 
always made sure that I was showered 
with birthday gifts that were not 
wrapped in red and green and so my 
birthday was kind of a big deal and he 
knew that and so he knew that would be 
the only day that I would be surprised 
and I was completely surprised so it was 
truly special and we had an amazing 
marriage that we worked at we were 
really intentional about keeping our 
relationship as a primary relationship 
after our kids were born we had a 
standing date night every Thursday night 
we had a standing babysitter if he was 
out of town for work he flew back in and 
so it was a huge commitment for us in 
fact my wedding band said my commitment 
because that that 
to us was first and foremost were 
committed to each other we're committed 
to working on the relationship we're 
committed to investing time in it and 
that really was so important to me 
yeah and then we had three amazing 
daughters who are 
two are have kind of flown The Coop 
Bella and only one at home you know you 
just sent your daughter off to college 
oh it hurts right like something inside 
of you physically hurts 
yeah 
it is it does but then you see them 
there and they're they're where they 
should be right right so that just it 
feels good it does feel good 
yes and then let's see my husband 
founded a business in 2000 in Chicago 
and you know over the years I I worked 
on and off in the business I did a 
little HR I did a little marketing I did 
some of the bookkeeping and then I took 
eight years off to raise our kids 
and then in 2014 
the unthinkable happened my world 
changed forever Bella 
um I received a knock on the door at my 
home from a local police officer who was 
holding a slip of paper that had the 
phone number of a Chicago police officer 
and all he said was your husband has 
been Gravely injured I need you to call 
this number and I said okay what 
happened he wouldn't tell me so I took 
the paper called the number and that 
police officer just said 
your husband is in surgery can you get 
downtown and I'm like yes what happened 
wouldn't tell me and then a few minutes 
later Bella my cell phone rings it is 
the Press they told me 
and 
no no I'm not kidding I didn't know I 
never told you that no yeah yeah it was 
the press that it happens 
instantaneously when I was my dad drove 
me downtown and I could see the 
helicopters oh and I haven't told 
everybody what happened so he my husband 
was shot at work by an employee that he 
demoted four days prior who came back to 
the office and shot my husband and this 
is downtown Chicago in the loop so this 
affected 
hundreds and hundreds of people they 
evacuated buildings and there are many 
people who were head offices in that 
that space that remember it and as I was 
driving downtown with my dad I could see 
the helicopters the news helicopters 
like hovering over 
the scene 
and it's just crazy because 
you you see parts of your life in the 
news it was on you know the nighttime 
news the news people camped out in front 
of my house and I had my kids here and 
my mom here and they would ring the 
doorbell and so my kids and my mom left 
they went and stayed at my mom's house 
and they never found her there the Press 
showed up at our church for Candlelight 
vigils they came to the funeral 
they knocked on my door the day Steve 
died he did not die right away he never 
regained Consciousness and he was in the 
hospital for three months and then he 
did pass away but 
overnight 
when this happened all of a sudden at 
first you know I'm worried about my kids 
I was scared to call his parents and 
tell them this happened to their son 
like that's just an awful thing and I 
actually had my brother-in-law and 
sister-in-law do that because I can't 
deliver that they need somebody in 
person to hear that kind of news and 
I woke up the next morning and I went 
well I never slept of course but I woke 
up I'm like oh my gosh I I'm now running 
a business because that was the plan if 
something happened to Steve I would take 
over and 
that was the extent of the plan Bella we 
didn't but fortunately 
you know it was we were the largest 
shareholders we talked about the 
business all the time I had traveled 
with Steve I knew many of the employees 
I knew where Steve wanted to take the 
business so so I knew a lot of those 
things which is is really fortunate yeah 
um yeah and I guess part of me I was in 
shock of course early on and having to 
jump into some of these things I think I 
was happy I was in shock you know in 
retrospect I bet it was just there were 
so many fires to put out and 
um it took 
but well let's see it was running the 
business for three years until we sold 
to private equity and those were the 
most stressful years of my entire life 
for sure and you know because my 
daughters struggled as one can imagine 
when this happens and 
you know each of them were struggling a 
little bit differently and needed extra 
help in different ways and so that took 
a lot of time and energy and then the 
business so there really was not much 
time for myself back then for sure and 
my health certainly suffered from that 
wow wow so in one moment your entire 
life just went upside down and you had 
you didn't even have a moment to 
yourself it's like you had three little 
girls you had a sizable business to 
assume CEO ship of while you're grieving 
it's like it just sounds like you were a 
player that went on to the court and 
that was it like you didn't have time to 
think about anything except the game you 
had just been 
inserted into 
it it's so true I did take a brief trip 
after Steve died I I like to go to 
Canyon Ranch in Tucson and who doesn't 
it's awesome there but they have 
programs and it just so happened I was 
looking at their schedule and they had a 
rabbi that was coming to speak about 
grief and I'm like I need to be there so 
I packed up all my grief books because I 
had received quite a few and hadn't 
cracked any yet and and that was my 
first chance really to be alone you know 
I had my room to myself I knew I was 
going to do some of this grief work with 
this Rabbi I was going to be in nature I 
was going to be able to take advantage 
of some of that and Bella I needed 
privacy to just to scream to cry to vent 
to do all of that because you're right 
yeah 
I absolutely want wanted and did show my 
children you know crying but 
they didn't need to see the crazy 
hysterics that I really had to get out 
of my system at that point and so that 
was that was really helpful and that was 
right after you just got out of it yeah 
yes it was probably two weeks after he 
actually passed away keeping in mind he 
was unconscious for three months so 
yes and people that were at that that 
session it was over a couple days are 
like wait your husband just died two 
weeks ago and you're here I'm and and I 
was like absolutely I've got to tackle 
this grief thing and figure out 
how to do it and what does that look 
like and what should I be doing what 
shouldn't I be doing and of course 
there's no shoulds or shouldn't but at 
that moment that's where I was 
and did you have anybody around you that 
could help you with this grief or this 
was a journey that you embarked on it's 
like nobody had walked in your shoes how 
could they have no no and there's and 
there's the fact that yes I'm grieving 
and then there was the fact he was 
murdered like yeah that doesn't happen 
in my community it hadn't happened to 
any of my friends my youngest daughter 
was nine at the time and so all of a 
sudden like the world is in a safe place 
your dad's supposed to come home from 
work and so having that lesson 
and instilled in them was just awful so 
I did a couple things so number one I 
found a local organization actually that 
supports children who've been victims of 
homicide the Sheila oil foundation and 
they have a summer camp and so I 
literally was just Googling and came 
across them and reached out to them and 
very quickly they they knew my story 
since it was in the news and I met with 
the head of the organization and my kids 
went to Camp that following year I 
wanted them to meet other kids that this 
had happened to that had lost a you know 
a dad or a mom from homicide because 
I don't know you say that and it's like 
you have two heads so right so that was 
helpful for them and they had a parents 
program too because I I wanted to talk 
to other people that had lost spouses 
that way 
so that was one thing it did and then 
secondly there was just an ad hoc group 
of widows in my neighborhood that they 
were getting together socially and for 
support and just to bounce crazy things 
off each other that happen that people 
say sometimes or 
um gosh I got in the mail and I guess 
only a widow would laugh at this but it 
was addressed to my husband 
after his death couple years after his 
death asking if he wanted to be cremated 
I'm like really God oh my God take us 
off the list but anyway those women 
were so supportive and had walked where 
I'd been because they were a year or two 
ahead of me in their grieving process 
and we got together monthly for a while 
and unfortunately the group grew because 
that there were more and more widows 
entering my community and that was a 
really good point and that was just 
something we we did 
our connection got a little wonky so I 
apologize for that but 
doing is that Chad a great group of 
widows that got her through this she had 
a good therapist and you know day by day 
week by week things you know times that 
the hands of time kept ticking away and 
my question is when at what point did 
you start to see a little bit of light 
at the end of the tunnel or through the 
tunnel and when did we connect let's go 
there 
yeah so I would say just because of the 
running the business element which tends 
to be different than most widows 
experiences 
um I started to see the light after the 
business was sold because that and that 
was always the intent of the business 
was to sell at some point and that that 
was when the time was right so I really 
was able to breathe frankly Bella I have 
a sign downstairs that just that says 
just breathe so it did feel like then 
there was this huge weight that was 
lifted off me and I I took a trip 
um there's a there was there's a woman 
who's a widow and she did these 
Adventure trips in it so I thought okay 
I sold the business a month later I'm 
gonna go take this adventure trip with 
other widows and and um and that was 
that was really healing for me as well 
so so yeah three months or three years 
three years so now we're in 2017 and 
when did you start to think about dating 
now you go on this adventure trip you're 
like okay like when did the thought of 
going on a date first excite you 
yes so after I sold the business 
um that's when I really started thinking 
about it so 2017 we met I think Bella in 
2018 because before I met you ugh this 
was terrible I was the worst dater so I 
went back to that matchmaking company 
that I used was Steve because I thought 
I met Steve through that and hired them 
because I was still really uncertain 
about this whole online thing 
and because of all of the media coverage 
and in the news and that was just so 
invasive I just I I feel very private I 
guess about my personal life in that 
regard so that was making me leery so 
the whole matchmaking thing I thought 
would be a good idea well 
I went on these dates these these poor 
men I I they were such Troopers I was 
trying to solve their business problems 
you're like hey how about I Mentor you 
and solve your and and these were guys 
that you were meeting through the 
matchmakers 
I did because I didn't know how to date 
like I didn't know how to flirt I didn't 
I didn't know how to do any of that and 
and so I guess I I view that time as um 
some dating boot camp and experience so 
I I got experience during that time a 
little bit I probably went on eight 
dates uh with eight different men and 
then 
I knew that wasn't working and I really 
needed an expert to teach me to teach me 
how to date again and teach me this 
whole crazy world of online dating and 
what's appropriate and what's not 
appropriate and 
I don't know what do you what are what's 
some how do I be witty and cute in two 
sentences on to capture someone's 
attention and so all of that was so new 
to me and I wanted 
to make sure that I was putting myself 
out to this dating world in the best 
light possible 
so so I found you one of my friends good 
friend introduced me to you and forever 
thankful for her and we started working 
together 
wow and what was it like 
to 
you know think about embarking and 
embarking on The Dating process you were 
smart I always say we get get help where 
you need it prep yourself in the right 
way and how did it feel like you've had 
the love of your life and now you're 
doing this again like tell us like for 
people I know people listening to this 
maybe you listener have lost someone you 
love like Jody did or maybe you listener 
are open to dating somebody who has lost 
the love of their life like what were 
you thinking what were you feeling what 
what what should we know I just want to 
open it up 
oh absolutely and so I was personally 
ready to start dating I knew I felt 
solid about who I was I I felt 
definitely ready to date but I'll tell 
you it was scary 
um because these are new people new men 
entering my life and it's not my husband 
and what is that going to be like and I 
think I got some of that out of my 
system with the poor eight people before 
sorry if you're listening eight people a 
much better dater now 
um 
so 
I and I guess what I really went back to 
Bella and this was a really 
transformative conversation that my 
husband and I had was our values and he 
had never really thought about what his 
values were like that those weren't 
language they used in their household 
and that was key to me so being really 
clear on what my values are and and 
stick to my guns on that is has been and 
is really helpful going through the 
dating process for sure 
that's amazing and what did it what was 
it like getting your photos taken at our 
studio and writing a profile and the day 
what we do at Smart dating Academy is we 
call it launch day right we've got your 
pictures done we do the photo shoot we 
help you write your profile and then 
you're on there and you're live and 
you're like oh my gosh what do I do 
yes and thank goodness for Lindsay I 
mean she held my hand the whole way 
because you know all of a sudden this is 
my first time you're getting likes and 
hearts and winks and you know all of 
those different things and 
uh knowing how to respond and it took 
practice but you know but Lindsay was 
with me every week uh helping me along 
the way and 
um I've as you know I've worked with you 
twice now so the first time was for six 
months and I actually met I'm well I met 
I met somebody in that time somebody 
that frankly was one of those people 
Bella that you talk about our first date 
I'm like it was there were Sparks I 
frankly have never felt that way in my 
life like there was this instantaneous 
connection and 
and um I think I I got 
I lost sight of where my values were 
Bella but it only took three months and 
he showed his true colors and 
um you know he's he's still out there 
dating and actually when I went back 
online recently he reached out to me 
again and at the time he had he was not 
divorced yet he was he was separated 
certainly and he'd actually dated 
another client of yours and so so 
knowing that because what he was telling 
me was lining up with what he told the 
this other client of yours so that 
reassured me I guess a little bit Yeah I 
was really nervous about dating a 
separated person Bella and and but he 
said I'm getting divorced you know the 
next month and same that he had told 
your other client 
um we've got all the inside Scoops he 
disappeared so we know we know who's 
telling the truth and who's not because 
we're online in everybody's inboxes yes 
yes but I loved that but anyway so he 
disappeared basically like some people 
do he just wasn't ready for a 
relationship and oh by the way this is 
now four years later he's still not 
divorced Bella 
bananas bananas yes so then I met a man 
that I dated for two years and 
we we were in love Bella and this was 
also we met a year before the pandemic 
started and three months into our dating 
I got breast cancer again for the second 
time and you know I mean here's this guy 
he just started dating me he didn't have 
to stick around and he stuck around and 
he sure did he he really did and he went 
to all my appointments and he went to 
the surgery and that really carried a 
lot of weight for me which made me also 
not ask a lot of the important 
value-based questions 
and kind of turn a blind eye on some 
things so at the end of our two-year 
relationship and and I wasn't working 
with you while I was in this 
relationship had I been I think you know 
a lot of these questions that I didn't 
ask would have come up a lot sooner but 
it kind of got to the point where okay 
well we're in love but are we going to 
spend the rest of our life together 
and the answer was no no no I didn't 
want to he didn't he didn't we didn't 
have the same values and so that Unwound 
very quickly 
and I needed a break at that point I 
needed some space I needed to regroup I 
needed to make sure I was back on board 
with what I was looking for so then 
when I was ready I reached out to you 
again and I'm I'm in the dating realm 
right now nobody particular to talk 
about but but I am back online dating 
and you know I wanna I wanna come back 
to something that you said which is so 
important you know sometimes people 
think about dating and date coaching in 
the okay you know people ask me all the 
time well Bella if I I work with you and 
I meet someone on the third date do I 
just put myself on hold and the answer 
you guys is I and at SDA we look at 
dating in two phases phase one like 
Jody's saying is getting yourself out 
there the right way knowing women that 
are looking for men who your high GHQ 
guy is high in good husband qualities 
right same for men Good Wife qualities 
and then really understanding the red 
flags building your funnel having 
multiple people that you're dating at 
the same time filtering some people are 
going to make it to the second third 
eighth twentieth date and some people 
are going to get sifted out now the goal 
of the funnel is to narrow it down to 
one person who becomes your boo your 
partner your boyfriend your girlfriend 
whatever you want to call it but that 
sort of marks the end of phase one but 
then what happens is we go into phase 
two which arguably is the more important 
phase right now we've got this one 
person now we're going to say is this 
the right person like Jody's saying does 
this person line up with my values do we 
want the same things for example things 
as simple as do we want to live together 
in the same house or do we want to 
maintain two different spaces do we want 
to live the same lifestyle do we want to 
live in the same city what do we want 5 
10 and 20 years later and these are the 
things that we really want to address 
during phase two does this person fit in 
well with my family with my extended 
family with my kids and these are all 
the tires that we want to kick in phase 
two so when people come in I'm like 
there is no love in 90 days there's 
maybe less than 90 days maybe you found 
a prospective candidate but this is a 
process that takes months and years as 
Jody's saying sometimes we have people 
on and they found love on the second 
date and here's Jody who worked with us 
in 2018 and now we're back to 2022 and 
we're taking this on again at a slower 
pace for more than a year really saying 
okay how are we going to measure twice 
and cut one so I want you if you're 
listening to this to understand 
everybody's just like you right we're 
all trying to figure this whole dating 
process out but remember slow and steady 
is what's going to win the race and 
there's no trophy for getting this right 
the first time right dating is a 
marathon it's not a Sprint so I'm so 
glad that you you shared your story with 
us and you're back there in the dating 
pool well how you know what is what are 
some things if people are listening to 
this and they're dating a widow or a 
widower let's kind of flip the the 
script here what would you say what are 
some things that you would say are okay 
to say versus things that like don't say 
don't ask like can you give us any 
sunlight any transparency around that 
because I know nobody wants to say 
anything that's hurtful to somebody on a 
date right right and 
so I think it's important to know that 
frequently I mean I have pictures in my 
house of my husband I have pictures of 
my husband with my kids I have pictures 
of us all together those are really 
special memories and those are going to 
stay in my house whether I you know when 
I remarry they're still going to be in 
the house because my husband my late 
husband is always going to be a part of 
me now that doesn't mean that my heart 
doesn't have room to let somebody else 
in but it's important if you're dating a 
widow or widower know that that person 
is really special to them still and and 
you know I'm assuming they had a very 
you know I had a really positive 
relationship so I'm you know going to 
use that as an example but 
yes Steve is is still a part of me and 
and I want to talk about him and not a 
lot you know usually when I go on a 
first date people always ask you know 
they know I'm a widow 
everybody always asks like well how did 
they die 
is that right people ask that all the 
time and I don't know why people ask 
that 
um 
but they don't ask that should we say 
don't ask let's just say don't I would 
say don't ask that and I say don't ask 
that because my story is so unique that 
people I usually get like these saucer 
eyes because then people don't really 
know what to say and so you may be 
dating a widow or widower that has had a 
traumatic story and so then things get 
really awkward but you know I I like to 
talk about him I don't talk about him 
all the time on a date but you know he's 
gonna come up in conversation just 
because and then there's going to be 
difficult days 
um that we all have and knowing what 
their difficult days are for the person 
that you're dating it could be their 
birthday it could be their anniversary 
it could be the date they died but 
there's these days that just bring up a 
lot of emotion for widows and widowers 
and being sensitive and caring and and 
saying hey I know 
you know this this day is coming up for 
you how can I best support you 
I want to be there for you yeah and 
asking it's okay if you don't know just 
say how can I how can I best support you 
how can I best support you and now I 
love that I love that and I'm curious 
when you're dating do you find a 
difference sometimes you know widows or 
widowers are like well I'd like to date 
someone else who's a widow or a widower 
or dating someone that's divorced do you 
see any differences 
I think what's really hard for me Bella 
and I haven't dated a widower yet and I 
would love to frankly because my 
relationship 
came from a place of commitment and love 
and trust and happiness and we worked 
hard on that and so it's challenging for 
me when I meet people that you know just 
didn't have a great marriage or for 
whatever reason didn't put the effort 
into their marriage and and I it's 
important to me to make sure they've 
worked through that stuff uh before I 
date them because I want them to come to 
the a date with me ready to be fully 
present in themselves and having 
having worked through any past issues so 
so I think it would be really neat to 
date a widower I've tried I'm searching 
Bella okay putting a general APB out to 
all eligible widowers to contact me on 
behalf of beautiful Jody Lavoy I am her 
personal bodyguard here so uh right 
email our site because she's a catch I'm 
telling you man if I was a single man 
I'd be all over dating you so um and 
Joey how 
how did how has dating been for your 
kiddos 
you're dating yeah it's been hard 
frankly 
um they they want me to be happy they 
don't want me to be alone absolutely 
but when they see me dating someone 
they're reminded that they don't have 
their dad and that's what sticks in 
their mind and so 
it just takes time you know my girls 
will take time and now I have two that 
don't really live at home so for them to 
get to know somebody is it's it's gonna 
take time and that's okay and that's 
okay but but yeah that's important for 
people dating widowers and widowers 
widows to know that it's just hard for 
the kids because they don't have that 
person anymore 
yeah 
yeah 
100 and how has 
or how did you 
know 
for widows and widowers how is it 
offended family and for your spouse's 
family 
yeah 
so I would I'm so lucky Bella Steve's 
family has been incredibly supportive 
they ask about my dating they ask you 
know when I was in a relationship they 
would ask about that person they would 
invite him to come through me to to 
Christmas to visit and I never took them 
up on that because that's also special 
time with my girls 
and frankly my kids really did not like 
him and for for valid reasons that 
didn't align with our values 
um 
so so anyway I look forward to 
introducing my in-laws to my future 
person and that could be very weird you 
know for somebody that's dating a widow 
or widower like oh gosh I'm gonna go 
meet your in-laws but it's not weird for 
me 
no because they're still your family oh 
gosh yeah and it sounds like your 
in-laws are amazing and everybody in 
your life wants you to be happy 
they do they really do 
and I want you to be happy and I'm so 
uh profoundly honored like it almost 
makes me teary to be on this journey 
with you the second time around 
um you're just a beautiful soul and I 
know your dating life is going to 
Blossom in the next year I'm feeling 23 
Is your year baby I feel like 
23 and me I like it we're gonna go with 
that 23 is Jody and Jody tell us about 
you know you've done so much work I mean 
to do I've been through the sale of a 
family business and that is no small 
feat and to do what you did and to sell 
the company I I literally like it makes 
like the hair on my arm stand up what an 
incredible move that was Jody has done 
so many amazing things you were the CEO 
of the young entrepreneurs Academy right 
the female strong why yea she helps 
young girls or helped write business 
plans and Pitch them Shark Tank style of 
which I love Jody so much I had my own 
daughter Jaden apply to yea as a 
freshman in high school and she did it 
and it was one of the most amazing 
experiences that she's had and to this 
day she's at the Kelly business school 
in Indiana and I credit so much of that 
to the work that you and the curriculum 
you put together at yea and and your 
work continues to be so Purpose Driven 
tell us what you're doing with coaching 
now 
yes so I am coaching widows in the 
workplace Bella because 
I know my journey was was very difficult 
for me and I learned a lot along the way 
and I want to help other widows who are 
in a similar place be able to be 
successful at work and be able to take 
care of their their family and find time 
for themselves and figure this whole 
thing out of your who your person is who 
you are 
without your person anymore and what 
does that look like and that there is a 
future and I help them find that and 
it's incredibly rewarding work I work 
one-on-one with them via zoom and and 
when I get to the end of a client 
engagement and just reflect on how far 
they've come and you can physically see 
it in their face like the smiles they 
have and the way they carry themselves 
it's just it's incredibly rewarding 
and with your practice is there a good 
time for people to reach out to you for 
coaching 
you mean a good time in their grief 
journey in their grief Journey like 
what's the right like you know for me I 
can say as a dating coach the right 
moment to reach out to a dating coach is 
the is the day where the thought of 
being on a date with someone excites you 
the thought of Finding Love Again 
excites you right we'll never be fully 
healed I don't know that we can ever 
heal from loss right we learn how to go 
on and so when is the right moment for 
someone who has undergone loss a woman 
to reach out to you like is there that 
moment where you're like God this is the 
right time to reach out to me as Jody 
Lavoy your Widow coach yeah and and it 
varies Bella because I've had some 
widows come to me before they're even 
widows because their spouse received a 
terminal diagnosis a couple years ago so 
their grief actually started even though 
they were very hopeful back then and 
they just wanted to set themselves up 
for Success that their family only up 
for Success so you know that's one 
scenario and the other is when you feel 
like you're you know there's more but 
you don't know what that is 
and so if you're a widow out there 
widower 
um that's that's the time 
I love that I mean look at what a 
remarkable human being you are you're 
like the oh I think you were the MVP of 
the week at WGN Radio weren't you that's 
right right yes yes Bella that was fun 
right I mean this is like I'm saying you 
guys this is truly a bad ass human being 
and kind and generous and if you find 
yourself you know wondering after your 
loss like what do I do and let me ask 
you this question we have a lot of 
divorced clients and divorce is also a 
loss right and especially if it wasn't 
at your behest is there you know are do 
you feel like there might be 
commonalities are these people that you 
would also help through the process 
so I would not work directly with them 
because I'm my passion really applies 
with widows but it's still a life 
transition totally so whether that is a 
divorce or a death or your kids going 
off to college or or you're retiring all 
of those are major life Transitions and 
there's there is a lot of commonality 
between all of those 
100 so I you guys we're gonna have I I'm 
gonna put this out there to the universe 
that Jody's out there dating right now 
she will be back on this podcast to be a 
Future Love Story how does that sound 
Jody we're gonna I love it that's great 
as soon as you find your boo the lid to 
your pot you're gonna come on here and 
tell people what it's like is there any 
is there any advice you that we haven't 
asked you for or that's kind of come to 
mind that we haven't talked about about 
dating as a widow or a widower or if 
you're dating someone just any last 
things that I might not have asked you 
gosh we covered so much Bella 
[Music] 
um 
no I think we got it guy we did good 
we got it just be brave 
hire someone to be on the path with you 
whether you're grieving and you need 
purpose as a widow whether you want to 
get out there and have a coach Jody's 
hired us I would tell you to hire her 
there's a whole the world has changed in 
some senses really beautifully in the 
last couple of decades where the 
services like what Jody's doing what 
we're doing they didn't exist 20 30 
years ago right we were all going to be 
washed up and if you were single after 
loss that was it right and now there's 
so many people out there that can help 
you to take that next step so be 
inspired and I hope Jody's story 
inspired you that if you can go through 
losses as deeply profound as she has 
right 
um that you too can find the strength 
within yourself to go forward and to do 
this again so Jody you're the best I 
love view to the moon and back thank you 
for being on here and you will be a 
bookend love story I know it so um and 
where can people find you if they want 
to check out your widows coaching yes uh 
Jody lavoycoaching.com 
I'm and I will put it in the show notes 
as well so thank you my dear and I know 
we're going to toast with a glass of 
wine live soon so for those of you who 
have listened to this episode loved it 
please 
go to Apple go to Amazon give us the 
five stars write what you liked about it 
it means the world to small new podcasts 
like us share it with your friends share 
it on social media send it to somebody 
who has had a loss that needs to hear 
this send it to somebody who you can 
motivate to take that next step to find 
the lid to their pot and maybe just to 
be brave and to know that someday 
they'll be ready so until next week I 
bid you farewell 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find l 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to the podcast I am so 
excited to have with me a new friend 
that I met this year named Wendy Sloan 
and I met her because I was on her 
podcast and loved her and her vibe so 
much that I brought her on the podcast 
to listen to you because I think that 
there's so much about Wendy that you 
will find relatable and her story and 
our conversation today so for those of 
you who don't know who she is she's a 
former TV producer for Phil donu and 
Heraldo then she had a radio show called 
what's up with Wendy and then that small 
thing called covid happened and she took 
that radio show and took it into 
something that is so help full and 
useful to so many of you and it's a 
podcast called divorce doesn't suck so 
Wendy welcome to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast we're so happy to have 
you thank you so much thank you for 
having me and thank you for everything 
that you said just now oh you're so 
welcome well tell us about 
you wow where did you from the beginning 
how did you your marriage and your work 
and how you are where you are today okay 
you got it so I moved to New York City 
after I graduated from college and I 
worked for a modeling agency that was my 
very first job in television for elite 
Casablancas so that was John Casablancas 
um that was really a funfilled career 
and then but I really wanted to be 
either a reporter or I wanted to be a 
television producer or being a soap 
opera and believe it or not I did get 
four callbacks for a soap opera oh 
proper called loving so that would have 
I think taken my life in a whole 
different way but it didn't happen so I 
wound up being a television producer and 
first for Phil Donahue who is probably 
one of the greatest humans out there and 
haraldo who is also one of the greatest 
humans out there um if anyone ever had a 
chance to work for them it was just 
magical it was just it was like having 
second families I mean we're all still 
close as producers or all still talk all 
the time and um it was a wonderful a 
Wonderful World it was so fun in New 
York City and I covered John B Ramsey 
the OJ Simpson trial um being in 
television at that time 
was amazing so I had a full career um I 
to just um during that was during my 20s 
so I chose to just like focus on my 
career date um I had a ball dating but 
it was always just like I'm just dating 
just to date it was never I was looking 
for a husband or I was so focused on my 
career and I think that's one of the 
things I I tell people too enjoy your 
20s you know like I know it works for a 
lot of people to get married young or 
you know for your high school sweetheart 
and all that sounds magical but I loved 
being single in my 20s and focusing on 
my career because then you have the 
whole second part of your life to to get 
married be a mom and and focus on that's 
just my personal opinion so then I was 
you know getting into my 30s and I was 
kind of feeling like oh I want to you 
know I want to have kid I wanted to have 
kids my career was very important to me 
but I always want knew I was going to be 
a mom sure so I got engaged and I met I 
got married in 1999 I was 33 years old I 
had my first baby at 34 my second baby 
at 35 a year apart um and so having kids 
in your biological clock was a big 
impetus for you to get married I'm 
guessing I I would say that now I don't 
think I was thinking that at the time 
totally but I knew that in you know I 
was in my 30s and I was worried so I was 
like oh you know kids were very yes yes 
I guess yeah like I got to get out of 
this game of musical TR yes correct um 
and I was I was burnt out too for my 
career I mean I Heraldo I was doing two 
shows a week I was doing his news show 
and his celebrity show and it was a lot 
and when you're a television producer 
you burn both ends I mean on the clock 
247 it's not a job I don't think you can 
do and be a mother full-time mother at 
least you're on call literally I mean 
I've done enough TV to know what TV 
producers phones are like all day all 
night yes if the story breaks you got 
you go and you have to and and that was 
and that was wonderful in my 20s to be 
able to do that so um yes so I had my 
kids and shortly after 911 we left New 
York City because even though I covered 
so many stories there was nothing like 
911 and I just felt so I just the city 
felt different to me and and I also had 
you know two kids at home a brand new 
baby and a you know a year plus old 
little guy and my hormones were like I 
got to get my kids out of here and I 
have to move so I only knew Connecticut 
because of Phil and so I Phil Donahue so 
I we looked in Connecticut and next 
thing you know we're we have a house in 
Connecticut so my little family we were 
we were now not New Yorkers anymore we 
were Connecticut people and I loved it I 
mean I love the small town feel I love 
that the kids had a big backyard to go 
to I still wonder and we talk about it 
my kids and I what if I raised you in 
New York City how different would our 
life be how different would I be I mean 
it was but you know I have the greatest 
friends in the world from that little 
town and I wouldn't change it for the 
world but I do think like how different 
it would have been and now my kids are 
in the city I'm like H so I'm living my 
life now through through their eyes and 
seeing how they are in the city but 
anyway so then I got very involved I I 
did not work anymore and that you 
stepped out of TV you stepped out of 
work period completely to be a 
stay-at-home mom and that was huge for 
me because I you know I dreamed of just 
being a stay-at-home mom and I had my 
career and I felt very fulfilled which 
is another big point that I want to get 
across like I was fulfilled in my career 
I felt like I had accomplished a lot and 
I had done everything I set out to do 
and I was I had put that to bed so I got 
you were done I was done I I I thought I 
was done so I dove deep into my kids 
life and I was the team mom for 
everything and I was in the PTC and you 
you know the room mom coordinator and I 
went to the lunchroom Duty and I wiped 
the tables down and hung out with the 
kids and I was always at every one of 
their Sports and their games and um like 
literally on the field being team mom so 
that was great and play groups and you 
know getting to know my community and 
and and it was wonderful and then I got 
to the point where I was like hm this I 
think this was 2010 I want to say I said 
I need something for Wendy now too so I 
met somebody out to dinner and he was 
like oh I own a a radio station I said I 
want a radio show oh you do huh so I 
went bulldozed right into it just like I 
did when I moved to New York City and I 
kept hounding them and I actually did 
have a radio show with Danny badui at 
the end of when I when Heraldo was over 
I did do I had a radio show with him so 
it was called Big 105 with paric family 
Danny bonuchi Danny bonuchi start 
remember him and that was really fun but 
that didn't last very long so I um I had 
some radio experience even though I said 
I would never do radio it was no not 
after being a television producer so 
he's like okay what do you want to do 
and I said I'll think about it I said I 
want to do a show like I did for Heraldo 
for his celebrity news show celebrities 
newsmakers authors um you know series of 
things and all that so he goes okay can 
you go on the air in two weeks so I go 
two weeks I didn't have any guests I had 
nothing I I mean I still had contacts 
and stuff but not a ton so I called 
Heraldo and I said could you be my first 
guest I'm getting this radio show and 
then I called our you know the executive 
producer I said I need a name I need a 
song and we came up with what's up with 
Wendy which is so yeah so haraldo was my 
first guest literally on the radio I was 
like dead silence like I was it was such 
a bad interview thank God for him but I 
was like I didn't know how to talk I I 
was like kind of like and you know 
you're you're here you are you're hiding 
behind a microphone no one's seeing you 
but it was really not great at first 
I'll just say that but um but anyway it 
La it did my show did really well so I 
kept it all the way until covid and then 
I was kind of getting to the point where 
I was bored and it's wonderful 
interviewing celebrities and it's all 
fun and wonderful and I would go to the 
studio once a week and I could and it 
was still I was only once a week wow so 
an hour show and I still was able to be 
it literally started I went in at 10 
o'clock so my kids were already at 
school and I was done in an hour and it 
was all fun and I'm you know wonderful 
wonderful guest I mean Henry 
Winkler I mean Angela Basset the guests 
that I had on the people Vanessa 
Williams the magnitude of guests that I 
could get on that show and just so you 
know Heraldo was my second guest my SE 
the second anniversary the third 
anniversary Monica Potter co-hosted with 
me um Phil came on so it was it was a 
great show but I was bored so I gave it 
up during Co kind of kept it around 
turned turned it into a podcast wasn't a 
podcast it was two all over the place if 
you searched what's up with Wendy you 
you you know how a podcast works so then 
decided something that I always wanted 
to do is help people in 
divorce because when I got divorced 
there was no podcast there I didn't know 
about divorce coaches I didn't know half 
the things that I more than half the 
things that I know now I felt very alone 
I was getting divorced nobody else in my 
town was getting divorced or that I knew 
of so I had there was this one girl I 
reached out to I said you one girl I 
think we have something in common and 
we're lifelong friends now but there was 
really nothing nowhere for me to turn 
which is one thing like I didn't really 
get to take a breath I I dove right into 
something that I didn't have any clue or 
know anything about and what year was 
that that you got divorced let's back up 
for a second I got divorced in 
2008 oh in 2008 before you started your 
show got it started I started everything 
yeah I got divorced I mean I was I was 
just out of being a television producer 
and um you know just you know my kids I 
was into my marriage nine years that's 
it so yeah there was no radio show at 
that point there was you know I was just 
a stay-at-home mom that must have been 
hard to decide is a stay-at-home mom 
like I'm done but it sounds like it was 
the right thing for you I didn't even 
decide I just woke up you know went to 
marriage counseling I just was like one 
day I just said I'm done like I think 
I'm I'm just I'm done and I that's the 
thing I really didn't think about it I 
didn't dwell on it I didn't map it out I 
just was like I'm 
done and you know we didn't it wasn't 
the kids it was Financial it was I felt 
like I was kind of like trapped I felt 
like I I just wasn't in I just I think I 
just wasn't in love anymore and I just 
did it 
yeah were you the primary bread winner 
at the time nope no okay that happens to 
a lot of women longer term when they 
become the Breadwinners and you know 
when they're substantially out earning 
or have a stay-at-home dad that I see a 
lot of that in our 
practice the post women getting back out 
there and how do I rigate this so I 
don't end up there again I was not the 
bread winner I was out of my career for 
a long time I was Mom and you know I was 
kind of I was a wife and I was a mom and 
I did I kind of lost Wendy in there a 
little bit so um but the driving force 
to me was those two my two beautiful 
children I was I was just going to keep 
going and I that's you know one piece of 
advice is I didn't stop and take a 
breath I didn't map out I didn't 
research attorneys 
big big big you have to find the right 
attorney I did not I went through so 
many attorneys um and I that that hurt 
me financially a 
lot I can't even imagine how tough that 
is so you basically and busy raising 
little kids that like you know they're 
first they come first over everything 
so I put you know they were at the the 
it it was very difficult 
right right right um so you wake up 
you're like okay I'm done I'm ready to 
unplug and you just jumped off the deep 
end or the diving board at that point 
yeah I dove yeah so your advice is don't 
do that have a plan have a plan you know 
do your research I mean you know I 
didn't even know like there's so many 
different laws in different states and I 
didn't know I felt like I was in a rough 
to get this done because the attorney 
was like pressuring me and I was like I 
could have taken my sweet time like a 
lot of things happen after 10 you know I 
was only married nine years after 10 
years there's a lot more financial gain 
so you know the lawyers know that so why 
wasn't I told that why wasn't I told a 
lot of things why wasn't why didn't I go 
and research because I just I didn't 
know because there was no Outlets out 
there for me to to for me to find out 
about about nobody was getting divorced 
now there's a thous I would have done a 
thousand things different yeah I'm happy 
I'm healthy my kids are amazing you know 
we got through it and there was you 
know it it's it's a I have a wonderful 
life I'm so glad was easy no but I look 
back now I wouldn't change a thing 
because I wouldn't be where I am today I 
wouldn't be I'm very fulfilled I'm 
peaceful I go to sleep at night I'm 
happy my life is full so I wouldn't 
change a thing yeah zero regrets zero 
regrets and another thing is I didn't 
date during this time I'm not saying I 
didn't go out to dinner with a man and I 
didn't have my kids never met anyone 
they never knew I mean I had you know 
two weekends free a month 
barely and you're exhausted from being a 
full-time mom for sure all their 
activities and you know I had this big 
house to take care of too and on top of 
it a thousand people in my life getting 
divorced which you know they always put 
a thousand people in so I um 
yeah and when you say a thousand people 
getting divorced it's like as the years 
a thousand people in my life you know 
there was the lawyers there was the 
mediators there was the trials There Was 
You 
Know paper the paperwork and the things 
that you have to do and you know just 
there was a lot of people in our life at 
that time I can imagine right it was it 
feels like a circus of people it feels 
like a zoo yes a crazy zoo that I just 
wanted to get out and I felt very caged 
oh my gosh so you were like I'm just 
going to be me hang out with my kids and 
now a decade passes by and now we're in 
2020 so you you start podcast and now 
how does dating look to you it's the co 
landscape now okay so during Co I was so 
blessed um well I was blessed because I 
had my kids home so they were in college 
and I got to have them home so that's 
like extra bonus of time that you 
wouldn't have normally got with your 
kids and 
unfortunately um right before Co I lost 
my father so and he was my favorite 
person in the whole planet so that was 
20 the end of 2019 and so my there all 
the first and I had my kids there for my 
grief and and so that was you know so co 
co co we kind of just hunkered down you 
know I took good care of myself I walked 
every day I worked out I I just um 
grounded myself again and you know 
homecooked meals and life was different 
and then I decided I'm gonna do 
something that I've always wanted to do 
and make a difference in the divorce 
community and support people going 
through divorce and I was like I said to 
my friend Jack who helps me with the 
podcast I said we're not going to do 
whats up with Wendy anymore because it's 
really not a podcast and you were right 
because he kept saying it's not a 
podcast it's really not I'm like it is 
it is but I have all these great people 
these great celebrities but it's not a 
podcast it's a radio show so we came up 
with um divorce doesn't suck and I began 
I had a wonderful intern then and we 
just I wasn't crazy about the the name 
but now it's like it's it's here and 
it's actually the podcast is doing 
really well so I'm proud of it and it's 
my baby and um yeah so but but back to 
back to the dating back to the dating 
part which I don't really talk about 
much um I said I would date when my kids 
went to college I'll really start dating 
and So Co happen so you're not really 
dating and I had lost my dad and I said 
and as I said when my daughter goes to 
college and then they were all home and 
so when they went back to school and Co 
was kind of I mean is co really gone I 
don't know but you know we're back out 
in the real world and I said I'll start 
dating so I went on the dating app and I 
met somebody uh 800 miles away oh wow 
okay so it was the app like for me I 
wanted I wanted the and I've never 
publicly talked about this so this is 
the first time because it's 
you I wanted the fairy tale you know I 
wanted the Cinderella's Story I wanted 
to be like out there walking my dog and 
I get tangled in a leash with somebody 
as other dog and I meet somebody or I 
bumped I wanted the fairy tale I didn't 
want to I met him on a dating app 
however I did he was 800 miles away and 
we could have been the fairy tale if 
this was a Hallmark movie correct 
however 800 miles away and um we 
facetimed immediately the next day and 
we dated for one month online like 
FaceTime movie Nights I mean you can do 
this long distance to me and and 
actually to me long distance is better 
it works for me because I don't need I 
I've been I can take care of myself I've 
been alone for so long that I don't know 
if I want somebody with me 247 or I 
don't know if I want someone to this is 
my space and I just got a brand new 
beach house like five months ago and I'm 
living my best life so I don't know if I 
want to bring somebody into I don't know 
I guess time will tell so we dated um 
for a month and he's like I'm coming I'm 
coming to see you and I said okay one 
date one dinner one dinner he's like 
well I'm staying with friends in New 
Jersey so one dinner he said I'll take 
as much time or as little time as you 
will give me so this is after a month of 
FaceTiming every day yeah yeah a little 
probably a little bit more than a month 
FaceTiming having date nights watching 
movies FaceTiming talking all the time I 
really felt like I knew this person and 
then we met and um no one ever came to 
my house no one ever picked me up at my 
house and he stayed for 14 
days so we had this amazing love story 
for two years long 
distance and then love wasn't the 
problem distance was the problem yeah so 
um that's that's in a in a little corner 
of my of my life right now so I I don't 
even 
know how I feel one way or the other 
about that and so now I'm stuck with um 
well I'm here he's there what do I do I 
don't really want to get on a dating app 
because it's not what I Envision my life 
to be I'm perfectly happy being 
alone 
[Music] 
um want someone I don't 
know okay well that's really the 
question right you're happy on your own 
are typically wired to want the lid to 
their pot they want companionship now 
that companionship can look different 
for different people so what in your it 
sounds like you don't want someone who 
needs to live next door to you 
correct so what are you looking for now 
I don't tall kind 
tall 
kind 
um 
romantic mhm I want the romance I don't 
need you to send me flowers just bring 
me one flower go pick it like I want 
old-fashioned 
romance does that sound like people do 
that 
anymore yeah people do that for sure the 
question is I need passion and and and 
just I need someone to to add to my life 
and make it you know cuz my life is 
pretty I had to pretty pretty 
great that's amazing and that's such a 
good place to be when you're dating this 
person that's why I call them the lid to 
your pot your pot is complete but a lid 
that fits just makes the perfect acutron 
to the pot right makes it more versatile 
right gives you more options to cook 
things differently and I always said 
this like I'll know it I'll know it when 
I when I meet it I'll know it I'll just 
know yeah I think a lot of people think 
that right and what that is to some 
extent not to burst the bubble here is 
what you're looking my bubble when you 
say you're looking for I just I know it 
when I'll see it what that means is 
you're looking for somebody that feels 
familiar to you so much of chemistry is 
familiarity and now the question to to 
ask yourself is is familiarity what I 
need because I've done that before right 
and so when we feel overwhelming 
chemistry with someone it is there's a 
lot of familiarity at the core of that 
nobody's talking about this except me 
but this is really why we feel so drawn 
to certain people it's like oh my God I 
spent one night with him and I I felt 
like I'd known him for a lifetime I'm 
like you have he was your ex and your ex 
and your 
ex well now that you say it like 
that however that person was nothing 
like my ex right and and to back it up 
my ex and I are now F my ex-husband and 
I are now friends and we do communicate 
we you know there's a lot of things we 
could have done differently on on both 
of our ends but we we do communicate now 
and talk and I think that's wonderful 
for the kids even though I think the 
kids think it's weird 
even though they're grown kids um 
because we've been apart for so long so 
it's like oh Mom and Dad are talking 
that's weird oh okay because they 
weren't used to you guys communicating 
with exactly right right right right 
okay so now you're kind of good 
co-parents well they're grown children 
now so you know it's a it's a little 
different but yes and and and my kids 
are was so funny because so the the 800 
miles away person um was the first 
person that ever met my kids so I had 
told my daughter about it and then my 
son goes Mom when are you going to stop 
calling your friend is coming to visit 
or your friend or your friend when are 
you just gonna say it so and they were 
totally fine with it and actually really 
happy for Mom they were like Mom as long 
as you're happy that's all that 
matters let me ask you this Wendy 
knowing what you know now what advice 
would you give someone in a 
long-distance 
relationship that's a good 
question you just have to communic you 
know I felt him all the time and I think 
that's because we you know was we always 
was it was always good morning it was 
always good night he was always the 
person I spoke to on the phone or text 
and it was a you 
know our our love connection was you 
know he would send songs to me and we I 
felt him all day long so I didn't feel 
that he was 800 miles away when he was 
so I think it's that um you know you 
have to be I don't it's just a feel like 
I felt him all the time it wasn't like 
he wasn't near me so it was it was like 
he could have been next door to me and 
you know when you think about it 800 
miles away you can just get on a plane 
and get to somebody within an hour and a 
half that's right sometimes you get I 
can get from one town to the other and 
be stuck in traffic for an 
hour yeah so you know where and and but 
then the thing is my other thing is my 
other advice is to people is Love 
Enough like I don't have I don't have 
any baggage I don't have any I don't 
have 
any darkness in my life and if somebody 
else does will it really 
work so if and don't be blind to the to 
the signs to the red flags 
too 100% And I think you know back to 
the question of long distance what I 
tell my clients is it's going to be 
person specific in relationship specific 
but 
ultimately there should be a plan to get 
to the same city otherwise if there's no 
there there long somebody will get 
frustrated long 
term right and I don't know if that is 
consistent with your relationship or not 
right 
yeah well here we are and he is 800 
miles away and here I am right here in 
my happy little my Happ happy beach 
house and back on the the sun shining 
and and just um my life is full so I 
just I think that someone will find me 
somewhere somehow someway is that 
crazy um no I think that the Universe 
certainly has a hand in this but just 
like you were saying 
with wishing you had had a plan when you 
got back when you were going to divorce 
and have the steps laid out I would say 
to you if I was your dating coach dating 
is the same way unless you have a 
plan it's you just sort of felt feel 
like oh this is the universe like 
telling me this is the right person 
because there's no plan right and the 
first person that walks around you that 
happens to have a dog on a leash you're 
like oh my God here he is I have talked 
to people that are like okay God the 
next person that I see that walks into 
this door in this establishment that I'm 
in and smiles At Me Maybe This is my 
person and lo and behold when you're 
tuned into that you see that person who 
looks at you smiles and walks in and 
you're like oh my God my prayers are 
answered here's this person now is this 
really your person no it's correlation 
it's not causation per se so we 
overestimate right these things that we 
draw up in our heads I'm like look 
unless you have a plan that is this is 
who I need to be with now this is my and 
person this is the lid to my pot and how 
am I going to find this person right 
there's three pipelines that I would 
suggest to you to think about I know 
nobody wants to think about the apps but 
you got to think about the apps because 
the chances of someone finding you 
that's good for you are pretty slim it 
can happen but you know like I'm saying 
there and then meeting people out and 
about in real life and then having a 
plan to have people start setting you up 
on dates and so that's how you would 
develop a dating funnel but long term 
it's really going to be planful versus 
you know I hate to shoot the romcom 
dreams that people have in their minds 
but ultimately that's a fantasy that we 
watch on the screens we all want that to 
happen but the issue is it doesn't 
always work out in real life right so we 
overvalue those initial connections like 
oh my god the guy walked in he smiled at 
me this is a 
sign it's your job to evalu the signs 
and I feel like also I'm very 
comfortable and very very content so 
maybe I need to get a little 
uncomfortable and put myself out there 
because I'm very comfortable very 
peaceful very 
happy right that's a great mindset to 
date right where you're not feeling 
lonely you're not feeling thirsty you're 
not angry you're in a great place you're 
beautiful you're smart you're doing work 
that you love your kids are grown and 
flown and so for you dating over 50 is 
kind of the best time in life because a 
lot of those hurdles you're done those 
ships have sailed now you're looking for 
companionship right so it really I think 
that it's great that you're comfortable 
and content and peaceful now it's the 
and who is the right person for me right 
because we wouldn't be talking about 
this if you didn't want want to be 
dating probably you're 
right you're probably right and so 
dating requires thoughts 
plans big picture plans who is your man 
that's high gpq high and good partner 
qualities that's our process to do this 
and we have a long process that we help 
people to identify partners that 
actually make them happy versus doing 
the same over and over again right 
and then we teach you okay so this is 
who he really is this is a person that's 
going to make you happy and then looking 
for the red flags by phase of dating 
right we've got phased out red flags so 
knowing that that starts to help you 
navigate the dating scene like okay who 
gets in and who gets out and in our 
oneon-one practice we are literally in 
the weeds with our clients looking at 
apps looking looking at messages going 
that is hilarious I love what he said 
here's how we should answer back but 
this guy let me look at him no he sounds 
really negative let's get rid of him so 
and then you have dating scorecards and 
you're filling things out so that we 
really understand a job oh my gosh it's 
amazing it's not a job for you our job 
is to help you vet so people always ask 
like well you know are you matchmakers 
I'm like we're better than matchmakers 
cuz we're helping you on your team not 
against you whereas matchmakers they 
want you to settle down with someone so 
they don't have to provide you more 
matches we our incentives are completely 
with yours we want you to be with the 
right lid to your pot so we are going to 
tell you as professionals this is good 
for you this is out of alignment with 
what you say you want this sounds like 
your ex let's not do this all over again 
right so this is how we are wrapping 
people in bubble wrap and we're really 
along for the ride week over week and 
helping to make sure that even when 
somebody gets through phase one of 
dating which is okay sounds like I met 
someone great he's passed you 15 to 20 
days past me okay he's awesome then we 
go into phase two is this relationship 
in alignment with what you want long 
term and that's where the rubber hits 
the road so that we don't have to go 
back to the well 4 months or four years 
later because this relationship wasn't 
in alignment right I like what you said 
rap and bubble wrap protect yeah yeah 
right and that's it so you don't get 
dinged up during the I don't yeah I 
don't want to get dinged up and I also 
and and that's another thing is I don't 
think I can I don't well we all can I 
don't know if I can get dinged up 
because I'm so protective of myself too 
and I don't know I it's you know I and I 
also I don't know how to resp respond to 
dating 
apps hi like hi and they probably don't 
believe that I'm the age that I 
am so that's another thing that I 
struggle with too because I see people 
that are my age and I feel like I look a 
lot younger than them and um that you're 
stunning oh thank you that's so kind how 
old are you if you don't mind my asking 
oh boy we're all friends we're all 
friends here 58 58 yeah you don't look 
you look 
substantially younger than 58 whatever 
that even means you look amazing it's 
happiness it's happiness it's truly 
happiness really is happiness and some 
false eyelashes that's all well and you 
take care of yourself and you walk and 
you I do homecook meals yeah you ride a 
bite homecooked meals we can not really 
I mean that was during Co I'm not I'm 
not a fan of Cook cooking I really don't 
love being in the kitchen that's the 
honest to God truth when my kids are 
here I do cook and poor kids I think 
they were raised on mac and cheese and 
chicken nuggets but they're healthy and 
wonderful so I don't think it matters um 
I'm not a fan of being in the kitchen 
and I'm first to admit that I don't love 
it and that's great but whatever you're 
doing you're taking good care of 
yourself 
because that I feel that like if I went 
on a dating app they would think like oh 
she's not really real she's she there's 
no way she's 58 and then and and then 
and also like what age do I date 
like what like I don't even know like I 
wouldn't even know what age to date what 
sounds good to 
you I guess like around my age like my 
age sounds good to me to date someone my 
age that's what all the research shows 
women want someone within you know plus 
or minus I wouldn't 
date young person um and I wouldn't go 
really one or two years younger than me 
I don't even know if I would do that you 
should be open to it age is just a 
number right the same way you want 
someone to look at you and go okay it's 
just a number like wow she's beautiful 
and if somebody that's 53 and his kids 
are gone and he thinks you're the bee's 
knees and doesn't care about a 5-year 
age Gap you're not looking to have kids 
at this age so the age it's you know 
people are playing the long game going 
going wait if I'm 58 and he's 75 in 10 
years he'll be 85 and so these are this 
is more than math that people do at this 
age more than anything so I would tell 
you you know go five to 10 years up go 
five years down but and 10 years up wow 
that sounds old right but remember 
thought of that old is US plus 10 my mom 
always tells me that that's what sounds 
old right when you were 42 58 probably 
sounded like our parents right and now 
did you say wait I I'm sorry I got 
distracted did you say go down 10 and go 
up 10 you can go down it depends 
remember these are all malleable online 
try different things right and we're 
here we tweak things with our clients 
week over week and that's where the 
magic starts to happen because every 
year you go up or down and broaden your 
search every inch in height every Mile 
in zip code you bring in hundreds if not 
thousands of potentially new candidates 
and so being open again it we get so 
caught on the quantitative things the 
height the age the ZIP code But 
ultimately it's about alignment of 
values Character Are You elevator people 
for each other do you elevate each other 
do you make each other really really 
happy yeah and do you are you there for 
each other right do 
you friendship yeah and this is what we 
help people look for well that's why 
you're you and you're so fabulous the 
smart Danny Academy is amazing and when 
I found you I was like you're amazing oh 
and everything you say is so right on 
and and and it's good for me to hear all 
this well I you know when one and I were 
talking before you know we were in my 
green room we were talking about you 
know just the questions of being out 
there dating and you guys Wendy is 
gorgeous and she's 58 and you'll see her 
photos and reals oh hi 
Simon and you'll see she's just like you 
she's coming she's divorced right was a 
stay-at-home mom has tried to couple of 
has had different careers right and 
continues to reinvent herself and moved 
from Manhattan to Connecticut and then 
moved from Connecticut to her beach 
house and now has created a really 
fulfilling life and your kids are grown 
and flown and now you're ready for that 
next chapter you could be like the 
perfect golden 
Bachelorette a thank it's so funny that 
you said that my son goes no way no way 
will you do that and my daughter's all 
for it and my neighbors in the beach 
house are like that would be I want to 
be the golden 
Bachelorette but I don't want to be in 
the group I just I want to be her right 
exactly happen I mean it's a lot it's 
very very I like the concept of the 
bachelor with the dating funnel but I I 
mean it's reality television so there's 
a lot of drama that you know we need to 
have behind the scenes you know haraldo 
okay I was just gonna you you you took 
it right out of my mouth so when I first 
got to Heraldo we were still doing I 
slept with my brother's um girlfriend 
you know I we were still doing the trash 
and we were putting them in separate 
green rooms and saying okay there's 
water there I mean if you need to use it 
and telling each other yeah I did that 
I'm not proud of it but I did do that 
and then he became thank God we became 
new more news and it everything changed 
with CNBC and everything else but anyway 
yes I know reality TV and I know what 
that's like but yeah I love the golden 
Bachelor I love the I'm actually gonna 
have a few of the women on my podcast um 
soon as their contracts are up so that's 
exciting and I and I thought they were 
all like so supportive of each other 
this age and older and they all looked 
beautiful and they all take care of 
themselves and they were all rooting for 
each other and that's the kind of 
girlfriend I am yeah I love that and 
that's what I like about this particular 
season you know I don't love the very 
expedited and now let's get married I 
think that that plays into the fallacy 
of Hallmark and Hollywood that wow you 
meet the right person and in 60 days 
let's get hitched and the truth of the 
matter is why not date for another year 
and make sure that we're really good for 
each other it works out sometimes look 
my parents met on a Sunday they were 
engaged on Thursday and married 72 hours 
later they've been married for 50 years 
W okay great but right that's more the 
exception than the rule so that's the 
one tweak I would make but our process 
is similar at Smart dating Academy 
you're going to have a dating funnel 
you're going to have different options 
to choose from because what that helps 
you to do just like Jerry did or Gary I 
forget what his name is in the golden 
Bachelor when you have options you feel 
like you have power and you don't settle 
so the Smart dating process is very much 
like that it's not on TV but we're 
really in the weeds wrapping you in 
bubble wrap and objective cuz we're not 
not trying to create drama we're trying 
to get rid of the drama like that's 
someone with three red flags let's get 
rid of that person I like this one let's 
go on a seventh and an eighth date and 
that's how we've been successful over 
the last 15 years of having zero 
divorces Wendy isn't that bizarre that's 
amazing no you're amazing everything you 
do B is amazing oh I'm so glad you came 
on and I hope that this has inspired you 
say that again I feel honored to be on I 
really do oh I'm so glad you're here and 
I hope that dear listener you see that 
these are the conversations we have with 
people every day right like okay what 
are you going to do do you really know 
who a partner is that's going to make 
you happy are we going to keep repeating 
old patterns overcorrecting for the 
wrong things are we going to have a 
dating funnel how are we going to create 
a dating funnel who's going to tell you 
the truth your friends and your family 
are well-intentioned they don't know 
what they're talking about they don't 
know what they're doing you're taking 
advice from people for example if you 
needed legal advice you're not going to 
ask your neighbor across the street 
who's a plastic surgeon corre right he's 
gonna say I don't know call my lawyer 
right so work with professionals that 
can help you because well again the 
fallacy is everybody knows how to date 
everybody knows how to fall in love when 
it's the right time it's going to happen 
and I'm here to bust those myths like 
anything you want in your life if you 
were looking to change jobs change 
careers would you just say well you know 
what I don't really have to interview 
for jobs the right thing will just land 
in my lap when it's the right time total 
BS we're given terrible advice if you 
want to do something if you want the lid 
to your pot you need to be proactive you 
need to have experts around you build a 
village to keep you safe wrapped in 
bubble wrap and not a village of you 
know the same villagers that plant the 
berries and break your lawn it's like a 
you need a village of people that W that 
are experts and know how to help you and 
have your interest in mind and they are 
aligned with your interests 
yeah I hope this has been helpful to you 
it's been you are you are a 
[Music] 
gem and everything to help people that 
are single and help people find love and 
keep everybody safe in bubble wrap it's 
wonderful well Wendy we're going to have 
to have you back on for a dating update 
so let's get this plan going how does 
that sound sounds wonderful thank you so 
much oh my gosh well well smart daters I 
hope you've enjoyed this episode as much 
as we have we will put Wendy's show in 
the show notes make sure that you listen 
to it make sure that you listen to the 
episode that we did together on her show 
so it's amazing and thank you again for 
being on if you like this episode smart 
daters go in rate it write something 
give it five stars that keeps us 
motivated and keeping the fly will going 
to do more shows for you so with that I 
bid you farewell and we will see you 
next week thank you Bella thank 
you 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators 
I'm excited to be here today to tell you 
about a situation that came up in 
coaching and I want to help you around 
it and the question is does being 
exclusive with somebody mean that your 
boyfriend or girlfriend 
so I was having a conversation with 
somebody and they said well guess what 
good news we've become exclusive and I 
said well that's great and this was a 
female client that was dating and got 
and I said okay that's amazing so then I 
asked the mic drop question I said okay 
if you're exclusive with him then would 
you call him your boyfriend and she said 
oh no we didn't have that conversation 
yet 
so we went through the question is being 
exclusive a transition towards being 
boyfriend girlfriend or not so from the 
Smart dating perspective I can tell you 
resoundingly when our clients say that 
they are in an exclusive relationship 
and have the conversation at that moment 
clarify and we give them scripts to 
clarify and we want you to clarify okay 
does that mean I can call you my 
girlfriend does that mean I can call you 
my boyfriend put it on the line at that 
point because other than that you have 
to ask yourself if you disagree with 
this definition that's fine right but 
this is the Smart dating Academy 
definition so it means 
what does exclusive mean to you if you 
agree that you're going to shut off your 
dating funnel and be exclusive with this 
with someone meaning I'm only going to 
sleep with you but there's still really 
no strings attached and you know the 
door could be open I don't really know 
what that exclusivity means right if 
somebody says are you seeing anybody 
else right now you're like no are you no 
not right now okay so that's different 
than saying I don't want to see anybody 
else period so from our perspective if 
you are shooting for exclusivity think 
about what you want out of this 
relationship most of you listening to 
this podcast want the lid to your pot 
want a relationship so don't settle for 
exclusivity without a title why are you 
going to shut off your dating funnel and 
be exclusive with someone who's not 
ready to put a label on and I'm not 
saying put a ring on it but I'm saying 
this is my partner this is my boyfriend 
this is my girlfriend I like titles I 
don't care if you're 22 or if you're 75 
saying you have a boyfriend or a 
girlfriend doesn't sound childish at all 
okay I think it lends a lot of clarity 
to somebody saying okay I am exclusive 
with this person and this is my person 
that's great and now remember with 
regards to becoming exclusive if you're 
following the Smart dating Academy 
Kool-Aid around this we don't want you 
to get into an exclusive relationship 
with anybody ideally for 15 or more 
dates over three to four months and now 
why is that that's not some random 
numbers some random formula that I 
picked out of the air 15 dates is a 
really good amount when you do it over 
three months right I mean in our 
practice we have all these graphs and 
things that we that we help our clients 
to navigate but what I can tell you is 
dating slowly you know and spreading 
those 15 dates not over 15 days but over 
three to four months helps you to see 
this person in different contexts right 
different variations of dates walking 
dinner going to a show maybe playing 
something competitive to see how this 
person acts when they win see how they 
act when they lose maybe they're out 
with your friends maybe they're meeting 
your family I don't know but really 
looking at a person in a variety of 
contexts to make sure that they are 
really good for you and they have no red 
flags on them and one of the misnomers 
that people always tell me is well you 
know I thought I saw that there were red 
flags before we became exclusive but I 
thought that that's normal because 
everybody says relationships are hard 
work let me correct that for you a good 
relationship is work but it's not hard 
work and a good relationship isn't going 
to throw down red flags in the beginning 
a relationship is work believe me I've 
been married almost 26 years believe it 
or not and it's work but it's not 
soul-crushing hard work full of red 
flags it means you work to be kind to 
each other you work to continue to see 
what's good in the other person to be 
kind to each other to be loving to each 
other right but it's not you know 
making sure that nobody's screeching out 
of the driveway or throwing the 
microwave across the room that's not 
what we're looking for so back to 
exclusivity from my standpoint trust me 
we've had zero divorces in 14 years we 
know how to do things between Eileen 
Lindsay and me I think we've been 
married for about 76 or 78 years so 
there's a lot of knowledge a lot of 
wisdom in what we're having you do so 
don't get exclusive too quickly date 
slowly right and look for red flags look 
for green flags make sure the 
relationship is easy before you agree to 
become exclusive with somebody and don't 
take exclusive meaning I'm not dating 
anybody else right now but the door is 
cracked open exclusive to you should 
mean about you dear listener that person 
thinks you're the bee's knees they think 
you're the best thing since sliced bread 
they don't want want you to date anybody 
else and they don't want to date anybody 
else and along with that exclusivity 
your reward is you get a title right you 
get to be somebody's partner boyfriend 
or girlfriend so I don't look at being 
exclusive as a lily pad to being 
boyfriend or girlfriend period let's 
date for efficiency date consciously if 
you're exclusive put a title on it not a 
ring on it not yet that can come a year 
later so I hope this helps you in 
navigating relationships navigating your 
funnel and knowing how to define 
exclusivity when you meet someone 
special that you want to be your 
boyfriend your girlfriend or your 
partner so until the next episode big 
love to you get your psychotic 
optimistic pants on and know that love 
will come to you it's a when it's not an 
if right and if you need more tips 
follow us on Instagram at smartdating 
Academy and go to our website 
smartdatingacademy.com and sign up on 
any contact form to get our free 
newsletter which tells you all the 
things that we're up to first and 
foremost you'll always be the first to 
know happy day and talk to you soon 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love hi smart daters 
welcome back to the week of minis happy 
Friday I'm so excited to talk to you 
today about Love Languages and the 
specific question do does your love 
language have to match your partners or 
somebody that you're dating 
um and the quick answer to that is no 
now for those of you who aren't familiar 
with the five love languages it's a book 
written by the brilliant Gary Chapman 
two or three decades ago and the book is 
about how each of us as human beings has 
five primary ways that we express love 
and we give love and we like to receive 
love okay and so for those of you who 
need a quick refresher that five love 
languages are number one quality time so 
quality time with your partner number 
two physical touch hugs cuddling 
intimacy sex all of the things number 
three acts of service meaning do things 
for me clean my house bake me a cake 
clean out my closet Dy make sure I get 
to my house safely right order me in 
Uber Uber acts of service number four 
words of affirmation tell me what's 
great about me appreciate me notice me 
and say with words what you love about 
me thank me be grateful for me words of 
affirmation and love language number 
five gifts right buy me something show 
me something give me a card tell me with 
your 
gifts and your rewards how much I mean 
to you so you can read the five love 
languages you can take quizzes and you 
can say oh okay my primary love language 
is Quality Time or acts of service or 
physical touch or gifts whatever that is 
now the question people have for me is 
okay if mine is quality time do I have 
to have a partner who prioritizes their 
love language quality time and from my 
stand Point here's what I would say no 
not necessarily because quite frankly 
most human beings need all five of these 
things time physical touch acts of 
service words of affirmation and gifts 
right we all need them now I might not 
be I might not need a gift every single 
day but I'll tell you what if you buy me 
a gift randomly it will make me feel 
special and it will make me feel seen 
who doesn't feel that way I don't need a 
gift every day but that can show me that 
you love me it's not my primary love 
language right and and the same thing 
with touch right I love physical touch 
just as much as the other person some 
days I might need more hugs and kisses 
than I might need another day on days 
where I'm feeling lonely or vulnerable I 
might want Quality Time or if I'm 
feeling disconnected so I believe that 
we're all an average of we all need all 
five of these things and we're going to 
need them on different days in different 
amounts and at different times in our 
lives so the most useful thing you can 
do about love languages is number one be 
aware of them and number two if you're 
dating somebody talk about them and talk 
about what your love languages are and 
specifically what kinds of gifts what 
kinds of Acts of service what kinds of 
words of affirmation I love 
self-development books and relationships 
because they help to spark good 
conversation and open up communication 
between two people so even if you've had 
a partner for you know a month six 
months a year a decade or two and a half 
decades it doesn't matter have the 
conversation and when you start to date 
somebody you know maybe five six seven 
eight dates and talk about the Love 
Languages and talk about what makes you 
feel love how have people expressed love 
to you in the past is the way you 
express your love to somebody else 
congruent with your primary love 
language what I find really interesting 
is that so many people will say their 
love language is X but the way they show 
it to their person is why so we're not 
even consistent in the way that we do 
these things so answering the question 
your love language does not have to be 
the same as your partners just 
understand what each others are and 
understand them in detail okay what 
kinds of Acts of service what kinds of 
words of affirmation right and you can 
be a better partner by understanding 
your partner in a more deep way and 
you'll be a better partner by being able 
to clearly Express what your love 
languages are and how you you like to be 
loved so many people get disappointed on 
holidays like birthdays and Valentine's 
Day because they have an expectation of 
what they want on that day but they 
haven't they haven't talked to their 
partner about that and then most of 
disappointment in life is due to unmet 
expectations talk about what you would 
like it's okay I will ask my kids what 
do you want for your birthday I ask Andy 
on his birthday what would make you 
happy on your birthday because I want to 
provide what they want on their birthday 
not what I think they should want right 
so I hope this helps you uh study Up on 
Love Languages you can Google it you can 
read the book by Gary Chapman by 
ordering it on Amazon you can listen to 
it on Audible you can read a Blog about 
it but I think I've given you a pretty 
good skinny the Cliff's Notes on what 
they are why they're important why they 
don't need to match how we all need 
these different things at different 
times in our lives and in our 
relationships and how we should use 
these to open up communication with our 
partner all right if you love this 
episode give it five stars rate it write 
about it I'm looking for you I need you 
to do this for me if you love this 
podcast help me out this is an effort of 
love right so I love you sending you big 
hugs of psychotic optimism and I hope 
you share these episodes 
with your family and your friends I hope 
you rate them so we can keep doing them 
for you until next time have an 
amazing love filled 
day 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
hello I'm so excited to be here today 
and we're gonna hop right into it 
so my guest today is truly the 
definition 
of a badass woman and I'm gonna tell you 
why I'm gonna breadcrumb you a little 
bit about how I found her so I had just 
done most of you know I did a TED Talk 
in October and if you haven't seen it go 
to my website or go to my YouTube 
channel and watch it it's called the 
secret to finding lasting love and in 
doing that probably the first or second 
day that I was watching my TED talk 
you'll see other talks come up and it's 
like other talks you might be interested 
in and there was this interesting talk 
given by a person named Ashley and I 
went on to it and I don't know why I 
felt called to click and I clicked on it 
and to tell you I was gripped and 
riveted it was like 11 p.m you guys and 
I went into fight or flight listening to 
her Ted Talk for like 10 minutes I was 
like full of cortisol full of adrenaline 
and I I was like I need to tell this 
person how amazing her Ted Talk was so I 
found her wrote a note on her website 
and got an incredibly kind note back 
like five seconds later from her and I 
want to tell you I have with me today 
Ashley Stahl Ashley we're so happy to 
have you here 
thank you for having me what an intro I 
need you in my pocket like what a 
self-esteem boost oh my god well I'm 
gonna read you guys Ashley's bio okay so 
just wait because all I said was she was 
a badass and she gave a tedx talk let me 
do her little Justice she is a 
counter-terrorism professional turned 
career coach and best-selling author of 
the book U-turn get unstuck discover 
your direction design your dream career 
and she helps people to get into careers 
that you love and that you're aligned 
with she's given two viral tedx talk uh 
case in point found her through her Ted 
Talk she's got online courses she's got 
an email list of 50 gajillion people on 
Pluto Jupiter and planet Earth she's got 
a podcast that I've been on twice 
um and she writes for Forbes she's been 
all over in the media like Wall Street 
journals so I present to you this bad 
asked firecracker amazing human being 
that I have grown greatly attached to in 
the last two months Ashley Stahl so I 
love you I love you back thank you for 
having me this is so much fun oh my God 
I mean Ash tell us about you just your 
story and how you you turned into U-turn 
and what you do now I mean my listener 
is amazing maybe single can live 
anywhere on Earth and is looking for 
passion and purpose in their lives 
overall including finding the lid to 
their pot so tell us you 
I love that expression every pot has a 
lid it's the best and I think that's 
definitely I think there's a lot of 
parallels between your career and your 
love life like dating is very much like 
job hunting and searching for the right 
fit 
um but for me I think like most people I 
grew up with those ideas that you should 
follow your passion or that you should 
do what you love and the money is going 
to follow and and I remember making 
myself crazy with those expressions 
feeling more lost than ever and in 
college I went to the career services 
office 
and I remember you know asking her what 
should I major in and she said to me you 
know do what you love and all of those 
things again and then I just majored in 
three things government history and 
French not because I'm an overachiever 
but because I was lost and just needed 
options 
and you know fast forward there's so 
many reasons that took me into 
counterterrorism but mostly it was that 
I grew up in the wake of 9 11 that you 
know I think 911 impacted the millennial 
generation in a similar way that the 
pandemic has hit Generation Z it's at 
that critical point in their career 
growth 
um and you know my argument in all of my 
work is don't do what You Love Don't 
Follow Your Passion instead do what you 
are 
and I think there's power in this not 
just in your career but in your love 
life because you know people and and I'm 
really someone that has done this where 
you know I have a really fun dad and he 
used to praise me as a kid for being 
really sharp really quick 
um really funny and so I learned at a 
young age to perform especially when 
they had dinner parties like I had a 
Persona and it wasn't that it was 
totally inauthentic but I could butter 
it up and put it on and be funny and be 
entertaining 
and it wasn't until later in my love 
life 
that I realized like wow I don't want to 
be this entertaining version of me I 
want to be me I want my nervous system 
to be at zero I want to be calm when I'm 
with someone not holding the 
responsibility of Performing so that 
their time with me is interesting 
and it took so much self-discovery and 
so many layers to get back into the 
heart of who I am and carry that not 
just into my career and my love life but 
everywhere that I go and in my work in 
so many ways and so since 
I would say 2010 I graduated grad school 
I gave everything to working in National 
Security I've had a protector living 
inside of me my whole life like I had a 
little brother who he's so sharp and 
when we were kids he was a slower 
learner than I was and I was so 
protective of him and I think this 
protectiveness just kind of channeled 
itself into the government I thought 
that's the highest way that I could 
protect people and you know watching 911 
happen on the East Coast having family 
on the East Coast it just felt like the 
thing to do and I put all of myself into 
it I learned languages 
French Arabic Dari I got the best degree 
I could and eventually I landed at the 
Pentagon and it was very soon into the 
Pentagon that I was like wait a minute 
this isn't for me I'm way too sensitive 
for this and how did I not notice that 
and the issue was really a matter of 
core values and 
realizing that just because I'm 
interested in something doesn't mean I'm 
meant to be producing that thing just 
because I happily consume politics or 
fashion doesn't mean I meant to produce 
politics by being a politician or 
produce fashion by being a designer um 
there's a big difference between having 
an interest in something and and 
upgrading it into an actual career path 
how you use your mind your body your 
heart and your energy throughout the day 
is very different 
um from what you're interested in 
sometimes you know I I just can't say it 
enough it's like I love reality TV but 
it would be the worst thing for me to be 
on a reality TV show so the point 
that my healing in my career is very 
much so a form of healing I think in all 
facets of my life including my love life 
because I was able to say okay what are 
my core values actually 
and I think one thing people don't do in 
their career or in love is Define their 
values like I'm sure what some of your 
clients you see people say like oh they 
value religion or spirituality and so do 
I but if to that person religion means 
going to church every week and to you it 
just means like having positive thoughts 
or being a moral person it's very 
different so uh you know I had a client 
who told me that adventure for them 
meant trying new restaurants in Miami 
and then another client Adventure was 
skydiving so so you know like defining 
your values really understanding how 
they show up in your life matters just 
as much I think in your career as it 
does in your love life 
um and so that has become one of the 
many facets that I've discovered over 
time So eventually I got the courage to 
leave the Pentagon after you know 
putting all this time in and I know a 
lot of people buy into the myth that 
because they put a ton of time into 
something they can't leave they can't 
change it they can't make it 
yeah and you know whether you're in a 
relationship or a career that's not 
working for you backing up does not have 
to mean backing down 
um there are so many things that we are 
taught in society that will that if 
we're doing this thing we're moving 
forward but the truth of the matter is 
if you're not aligned with who you truly 
are you're moving backwards and 
eventually who you are is going to win 
who you are is going to shine through 
who you are is going to demand to be 
seen and you're not going to have any 
choice but to unravel where you are so 
that you can restart and be who you or 
where you are so you could restart and 
be who you truly are 
did you have a moment when you were 
sitting at the Pentagon where you were 
like 
like I I think life is full of 
inflection points right and there's 
always that point like where change 
happens in an instant yeah and what was 
that point for you because I I think I 
want to unpack so much of what you said 
right you don't you have to be who you 
are just because you're interested in 
something or good at something doesn't 
mean that is who you are so what was 
that moment for you and then how did you 
get to where you are now 
um you know kind of inspire us because I 
think who doesn't want to be who they 
are and take that burden off of do what 
you love and success will come find what 
you're passionate about and then start a 
business around that people you're right 
it's concrete blocks on our shoulders 
yeah yeah yeah exactly and I I think uh 
well first of all the big limit and I 
get again I just there's so many 
parallels between the amount of times on 
my podcast or my book I reference dating 
and in alignment with job hunting is 
just insane but 
um you know I think the thing that's so 
interesting is that people put this 
pressure on themselves to have the 
answers in the first shot or the first 
try and it's just not real if you ask 
any successful entrepreneur 
um you know how they found their path 
usually there's a lot of failure on the 
same block as all of their success 
and this rigidity and unwillingness to 
be experimental to pay what I would call 
the cost of admission to a fulfilling 
career a fulfilling love life I think 
it's translating into a lot of poor 
choices so for example 
you know I think what we're doing in our 
careers is almost like the social 
equivalent in our love lives to saying 
the first person you like in preschool 
marry them like do it and and grow it 
um 
so I think it's just really important to 
be able to say is that true how are you 
going about your career what mindset are 
you holding about it and in your love 
life because to me life is an experiment 
life is a numbers game and when dating 
is just sifting right like you're 
sifting through the options so to me so 
is your career and if you want to be 
powerful to me that doesn't mean that 
you just go into Limbo what it means is 
you show up you try something on you see 
what feedback the universe gives you and 
you course correct along the way and I 
think where people are getting stuck in 
love or career is they're saying I want 
this to be right and so I'm going to 
make it be right without accepting that 
eventually they're gonna have to rip 
that Band-Aid that is not a sustainable 
plan 
exactly and it comes back to dating 
right and it's and it's that risk 
aversion and it right and we don't to 
your point once you experiment with 
looking at other things other jobs in 
the dating world it's you don't want to 
look at other people and then what 
happens we fall out of alignment with 
what we actually want we ignore red 
flags in situations because now we have 
one option because we're not we're not 
confident enough to say well I can do a 
couple of these things at the same time 
and that's where we get stuck in bad 
situations bad jobs bad relationships 
again and again and again so it's 
changing your mindset around this which 
is what I love you can take chances guys 
you can experiment look at finding the 
job that you love the career that you 
love the person that you love you're 
going to have to go through iterations 
and take chances and not say well I I'd 
want the third person I date to become 
my husband it's not going to happen 
exactly exactly and you know in the same 
way like I've made the choice to live 
vulnerably so if you read my book or you 
listen to my podcast or anything I try 
to be pretty vulnerable and honest in 
service to people and myself my own 
sanity just being open and real 
um but I feel like we aren't allowing 
ourselves to be honest with ourselves 
and so one of my favorite questions that 
I ask in my TED Talk and I ask clients 
all the time is what do you know that 
you wish you didn't 
what do you know that you wish wasn't 
true and then most people are gonna say 
something about their career about their 
partner about their lives that if they 
really look at it it's threatening it 
can feel threatening because they have 
to change it if they want to take 
responsibility in their lives and most 
of the time 
we're not actually stuck it's just our 
thinking that stuck we think we're stuck 
somewhere when we're not we can choose 
to change it and so 
um when it comes to core values for 
example you asked me when I knew that I 
wanted to leave the Pentagon I remember 
I worked on military bases I was 
traveling between Washington DC and 
Indiana I was asked to travel to 18 
countries that were really high risk and 
I quit my job because of it 
um so that was one of the moments that I 
truly quit but another moment that I 
knew I needed to quit was and this is so 
weird for me to admit but 
somebody handed me their gun and I never 
held a gun before and I remember 
thinking like who am I to think I'm 
supposed to work in National Security 
and that I'm scared to hold a gun and 
this person just need to go use the 
restrooms can you hold this really quick 
and I just remember feeling like death 
in my hands and terrified and thinking 
to myself like I'm just not cut out for 
this and 
you know obviously anybody listening 
could say to themselves like how do you 
not know that like what a weird 
Millennial thought to be like I want to 
work in security but I'm scared of guns 
I didn't know that about myself I'm just 
experimenting with my life and I'm 
courageous enough to do that there's a 
big difference between being afraid and 
being courageous and you know we've been 
taught doubt means don't but for me I 
never put those two together 
um for me fear just means you're on an 
edge for yourself and to keep going a 
lot of the time sometimes there's a very 
real mechanism of fear that you know is 
ingrained in us from seeing a 
saber-toothed tiger and needing to dodge 
it 
but I think 
um for me just realizing like I'm going 
to practice courage or as um Dan 
Sullivan says fear is is wetting your 
pants and courage is doing what you're 
supposed to do with wet pants and so for 
me 
I quit the Pentagon with wet pants I 
just was like all right I have to go I 
don't know who I am right now but I'm 
committed to finding out it's a way of 
life I am willing to put years in to my 
own sanity to my own being I'm willing 
to follow the nudges I'm willing to 
check things out that make me curious 
right now I live in New York I've lived 
in Los Angeles I've lived in Paris I've 
lived in Washington DC I've lived in 
London yes that comes up across probably 
as privileged the truth of the matter is 
I lived with someone in Washington DC 
and I was sharing a bedroom and barely 
scraping to get by when I was starting 
my job hunt but my point is I'm willing 
to try things on and inconvenience 
myself for the sake of finding me and 
you know there's a lot of questions in 
the self-help world of do you ever get 
there in your career in your 
relationship with yourself whatever 
their means for you and I think you do 
but you need to be willing to experiment 
to figure out what that even means for 
you 
100 and there like you said you're going 
to course correct what you think there 
is supposed to be is going to be very 
different than what there ends up being 
or is because you're experimenting and 
you're going to find out you're going to 
hold the gun in your hand and go oh 
I like I don't want death in my hands 
right you how could you have known that 
right but then you knew that and you 
course corrected you had a choice we all 
have a choice every day we make 
thousands of little decisions that 
determine where we get to in our life 
now you talk about values right and I 
think especially for people you know 
maybe people that are older than 40 or 
50 or 60 that might be listening to this 
or Heck if you're in your 20s or 30s how 
do you sit down how do you know what you 
value can you tell us like how did you 
come to your own process like these are 
my values we talk about core values all 
the time are those I value honesty I 
value Integrity or is it something else 
tell us 
to me the definition of a core value is 
it's a non-negotiable principle by which 
you live your life okay and you can 
value a lot of things but for them to be 
a core value they need to be evident in 
your day-to-day being 
um and something that people would 
probably be able to easily notice or 
comment on about you 
um so my values are connection fun 
Freedom inspiration and you see it 
everywhere like people who know me would 
be able to guess that I love fun and and 
I'm looking for it 
um I'm not a workaholic like there's so 
many different ways of my being and the 
problem I think with core values that 
people have is that far too often 
they're too aspirational they pick words 
that they want more of in their life 
which by the way is really valuable to 
know 
versus words that really represent who 
they are and so I think what's important 
here is to be able to say you know if 
you pick the word peace ask yourself are 
you peaceful how does peace manifest in 
your day-to-day being how are you 
showing up in peace how are you 
demonstrating peace and if it's hard for 
you to answer it's probably not a core 
value it's something that you're 
aspiring to which is great to know 
um and then let's get back to your core 
values because to me when you know those 
top five I would say core values that 
you have those top five key ingredients 
to how you show up in the world you can 
use them as a filter in your career and 
probably I would defer to you in your 
love life because you're able to say 
um you know and to me the fastest way to 
be unhappy in your career love life 
probably would be to have one of your 
core values violated so let's say a core 
value for you is integrity and it's 
showing up everywhere and how you are in 
the world who you are in the world 
um you know I used to work in the 
government and I worked at the Pentagon 
like the Cornerstone allegedly of 
justice so you know maybe it wouldn't be 
weird for me to say justice is a core 
value of mine right so 
it's interesting because there are jobs 
where maybe the person loves what they 
do 
um loves the people they work with but 
they're selling something that they 
don't believe in and integrity is a 
value for them that would mean that 
their career is infringing on these 
principles that are so at the at the 
helm of who they are and I think there's 
probably something to that with your 
love life like if you value something so 
deeply like for example I had a partner 
I value inspiration a lot and I have a 
playlist on Spotify called the writer 
mix for those of you who need a focus 
playlist under my name I I wrote my 
entire book to the writer mix that I 
have and it was so important for me to 
focus like I would put it on and it was 
almost like I trained my brain to know 
it was right it was writing time writing 
time and I and I the music moved me so 
much and I remember my partner at the 
time he hated the mix and he would be 
like oh there's like a pit in my stomach 
every time you play this 
and I remember having to sit him down 
and be like you don't understand this 
mix is like what gets me inspired and 
like inspiration is so important to me 
and I it helps me work and I can think 
and there's it's so much more than a 
music mix to me 
and every time he would say that was it 
was it was a trespassing on something so 
much deeper it was a core value for me 
it was my inspiration 
um every day it was part of my 
inspiration so 
I think it's these little things where 
you know like you'll see a couple 
fighting about the color of the paint on 
the wall they're painting their new 
house it's not about the paint right 
like maybe somebody values something 
beneath that and 
um at their core and so I think it's 
mostly important in your career to say 
what are my top five how do I ask 
questions through the lens of those so 
that I could figure out if something is 
a yes or a no for me 
um and how do I make sure in my personal 
life that I have people in my life that 
support and nurture these parts of me 
that are at my core 
that's right I love that how you said 
fun and connection and you're perfectly 
like you have picked a career that 
allows for all of that whereas you 
hadn't before so I think this is such a 
great conversation your core values are 
who you are and how you're living your 
life now they're not aspirational right 
exactly and that is the biggest thing 
that people are missing and that's 
something that in my body of work has 
been really a clear teaching because I 
find there's a lot of talk on the 
internet about core values and in the 
coaching space and I think it's great 
but I found that there's no one saying 
like there's a difference between an 
aspiration and a value and to me that 
distinction is so core to being able to 
choose those words and as part of my 
body of work of don't just do what you 
love do what you are another message I 
have is around how you're spending your 
time so in your career 
you know it's tough to push a river so 
people aren't going to enjoy their work 
if they're trying to be someone they're 
not they're not going to enjoy their 
relationship if they have to keep up a 
Persona or a way of being that isn't 
really theirs 
um and so to me knowing where you're 
gifted is the juice of a good career 
um I've found that there are 10 core 
skill sets that you know after serving 
my email list and just coaching people 
the past decade and my programs online 
there seems to be 10 kind of categories 
of skill that people fall into whether 
they own a business or they're in the 
workforce and I could go through them if 
it's helpful 
um and that to me is at the Crux of who 
they are that's how you want to be using 
your mind your body your hands your 
energy throughout the day yeah oh yeah 
go through them I want to hear let's do 
it so number one is innovation so that 
is the creative self-starter it's the 
intrapreneur or the entrepreneur 
um one thing that is key to know is 
whether you're supposed to be an 
entrepreneur or an entrepreneur an 
entrepreneur is the highly creative 
Problem Solver within a company or with 
they have their own book of business 
under the umbrella of a brand right like 
an insurance person or real estate or 
they're the second in command at a 
company the entrepreneur obviously is 
the person that problem solves and is 
visionary in the market 
um usually I've found that people are 
meant to be one or the other as a result 
of their relationship with flexibility 
and freedom and also Financial Security 
so the entrepreneur needs absolute 
freedom that means they need freedom on 
what idea they work on it needs to be 
their idea the time the schedule that 
they work on it and how it's going to 
look usually the entrepreneur can 
execute on a concept it's not their idea 
but they're highly entrepreneurial so 
they have all these amazing uh ways that 
they're going to bring it to life and 
they're usually okay getting some 
instruction but they want some autonomy 
in being able to bring it to life 
um the entrepreneur it's like leave them 
alone they have their Vision it needs to 
be done and it's not that they're 
difficult to work with they're just a 
Visionary and that's who they are 
um also Financial Security 
um you know the entrepreneur feels more 
pain if they don't do their thing versus 
the entrepreneur usually appreciates 
that predictability of their finances 
more than they need 
um that all-out freedom in the 
marketplace most of the time 
entrepreneurs just need flexibility and 
they want that Financial Security 
and then there's the second core skill 
set and none of these are in a 
particular order 
which is building so this can be a 
Management Consultant they have a 
mindset of building or it could be more 
tactical like a construction worker 
building with their hands it's about the 
energy and the skill of building it 
could be literal it could be mental 
it's I keep it open on purpose because I 
think that these are different hats that 
people can wear differently 
and then the third one is words this is 
my core skill set probably yours too 
um and one of the keys when it comes to 
these skills is understanding are you 
introverted or are you extroverted and I 
know there's a lot of research on being 
an ambivert but why this matters is 
because the internal if you're 
introverted you're going to express 
words if that's your skill set more 
internally that's going to look like a 
writer that's going to look like you 
behind your computer a little bit more 
if you're an extrovert the way you use 
words can be very external that could be 
an agent that could be a sales rep that 
could be a speaker 
um motivational speaker there's so many 
different ways it can look number four 
is motion 
this is the person who's physically in 
motion or on their feet believe it or 
not that's a skill 
it's those are the people who are they 
could be a tour guide or they could be a 
fitness trainer they Thrive being on 
their feet number five is service so 
this is the humanitarian the helper this 
one it's important to ask yourself along 
with all of them you know where is this 
skill coming from is it from a wound or 
is it from inspiration what I mean is 
are you a service person or did you just 
learn to be a people pleaser at a young 
age 
um and then there's number six which is 
coordination God bless the coordinators 
you need them I need them these are the 
detail-oriented across the T dot the I 
project management operations get it 
done sort of people events you know all 
of the different skills that I really 
just don't have um I'm always hiring 
coordinators because I'm like oh thank 
God for you shout out to Kirsten if 
you're listening to this thank you we 
love you Kirsten yeah 
um and then number seven is analysis so 
this can be the economist the academic 
the researcher 
um highly analytical mind and number 
eight is the numbers person number 
crunching bookkeeper investment bankers 
spreadsheets God bless their souls again 
another skill I don't have number nine 
is Tech this could be I.T support this 
could be artificial intelligence 
creators 
um and then number 10 is beauty this 
could be musicians this could be makeup 
artists this could be actor it just 
depends on designers into designers 
exactly this is the people who are 
making art of the world around them in 
some way so those are the ten obviously 
every now and again I'll come across 
someone that maybe doesn't fall under 
that 
um most people will resonate with two or 
three of these skill sets but it's 
important to know which one you lead 
with yeah no that's so key and I love 
that you shared those with us and you 
know as Ashley I know you and I have 
talked about your dating life and your 
relationship life and you're a highly 
eligible single woman living in New York 
and dating all over if you had to think 
about your values right connection fun 
how do you translate your values into 
the dating world is that something that 
you've been evaluating potential dates 
by as well or do you have a different 
set of relationship values yeah I think 
one of the values that I've had a 
misunderstanding around that got me 
stuck in relationships was around 
connection so I love connection and I 
used to tell myself like oh we have a 
connection if I felt chemistry and a 
sense of humor with someone but what was 
missing for me is to be deeply 
understood and it takes time for me to 
feel like somebody deeply understands me 
and so for me connection often was 
missing if I was with somebody for a 
while and we laughed a lot and we could 
have fun doing the same things we're 
interested in the same things but they 
couldn't really get to know that deeper 
way of how I think who I am and so 
that's been a standard that I'm holding 
a lot more highly and I've also learned 
a lot about how my core values need to 
show up for me to be happy so for 
example just because I value fun it 
doesn't necessarily mean that the other 
person has to bring the fun it just 
needs to be that they're down for fun in 
in what fun looks like for me so for me 
fun looks like new experiences being out 
and about 
trying new things 
as long as they're down for that 
um obviously it's a bonus if they create 
the fun for me I've had partners that do 
that and that's amazing or other 
self-expression so I need to feel 
emotionally safe I need to feel like I 
can be who I am I could share what I 
think or what I feel I want to feel seen 
um you know I had a partner who was very 
resistant to reading my book because 
they didn't like reading 
um and then I had someone who read my 
book twice before our first date so I 
feel like I don't need someone you know 
reading my work or anything like that to 
date me but the place he was coming from 
of genuinely wanting to know more about 
me 
um was really heartwarming and so I 
think that that made me feel 
self-expressed with the person like they 
they saw me through that book and they 
still and they want to connect more 
um and so I think these are different 
ways and so for anyone listening I would 
encourage you to say what are your 
values which ones are you being a little 
too aspirational with that you can 
delete from the list and how do you want 
those show up in your love life and how 
do you need them to because there's a 
big difference between a need and a want 
um 
for example my best friend the other day 
I once dated an art collector and I 
loved the fun part of me loved that he 
would take me all these places that had 
in the self-expression part of me he 
would take me to Art openings and 
Galleries and I was exposed to a world 
that I didn't really know and I'm 
usually the one kind of bringing someone 
around saying come see this fun thing 
that I like and so it was really fun to 
be with somebody who brought the fun and 
then I started dating someone who's just 
really easy going totally down for 
things but they didn't really bring that 
fun they were just kind and sweet and 
great and my best friend was like but 
what about the she calls it 
expansiveness which is what I call it 
too 
you know like he doesn't sound like he 
brings you that expansiveness 
and don't you need that I said no I want 
that I would prefer somebody to bring 
expansiveness I need them to not prevent 
me from being that way so as long as 
they're down to come along I'm good 
and you bring up a great point because 
it's it just because somebody could be 
different than you and maybe not 
expansive in the same way I don't think 
this conversation about knowing who we 
are knowing what we value means that 
we're looking for mirror images of 
ourselves because that isn't it's not 
what most people want or need so if 
someone isn't as expansively thinking as 
you are maybe they're not as well 
traveled as you are or I am or whomever 
but the question that I have my clients 
ask themselves is would they be willing 
to 
yeah right because sometimes we we are 
who we are because of the set of 
circumstances but that doesn't mean that 
we're stuck in that place what is our 
capacity to grow and to change and to 
want new experiences right so for 
someone that could become more expansive 
that's what you want yeah or is 
expansive in a different way I had a 
client who was now happily married she 
was 34 when she started with me she's a 
publicist and she said you know I'm this 
highly cerebral Alpha you know 
successful woman and I want a guy that 
reads you know Sunday morning it's 
brunch reads the New York Times cover to 
cover does the crossword puzzle right 
and dated scads of those guys and every 
single one of them nobody ended up 
sticking tons of them ended up having 
red flags she says well I just want them 
to be smart I said but intelligence can 
show up in different ways she ended up 
marrying somebody who not only had his 
own job in the corporate world but also 
had a side hustle in real estate could 
care less about reading the New York 
Times and I as her dating coach said 
have brunch with your friends and do the 
crossword puzzles together in the New 
York Times if he doesn't do that that's 
fine but he is smart and worldly in his 
way and he's so good to you so stop 
thinking you need this mirror image of 
yourself and look at the fact that he is 
worldly he is intelligent just in a 
different way and they couldn't be 
happier together and they have this yin 
yang energy which is amazing I love that 
and he brought up a really good point 
that I think crosses over also with 
career and love which is masculine 
versus feminine energy and I think the 
trademark of an evolved soul is someone 
who can walk through both energies 
effectively when they're needed but what 
I get curious about is in love 
especially with women like what you just 
described you know I'm a hard-working 
woman 
um how do you think we should be turning 
it off in our love life that that 
masculine energy are shifting because 
for me it has been a constant practice 
in my career and I get asked as a career 
coach by women all the time 
um how do I shift from the work day into 
my household 
yeah and I think and I get this question 
all the time with our clients like how 
do I you know do I I go straight from 
you know work to my date and like you 
have to come home and wash the stench of 
work off of you you need a I say you've 
got to have a dating routine like I have 
them we they have their dating playlist 
they have their go-to outfits right it's 
building these Atomic habits then like 
you were saying with your writer's 
playlist as soon as you hear it it's 
pavlovian and you're like I should be 
writing right now so as soon as I put on 
my berry lip and I curl my hair and I 
put on my cute wrap dress or pencil 
skirt or skinny jeans or whatever their 
go-to outfits are in that playlist and 
they're sipping their Prosecco okay now 
they're like I'm in dating mode and 
bringing yourself 
out of you know criminal defense 
attorney mode into just being 
Ashley the cool girl it's like who are 
you when you're with your best friends 
when you're having a glass of wine when 
your feet are kicked up who is that girl 
and you want to have a dating ritual 
that's going to bring that facet of you 
out I tell women especially men you too 
but we're like diamonds diamonds have 
facets all over it and at different 
parts of the day different parts of our 
Lives we have a different facet that 
faces forward and so for dates the facet 
it's like you want to turn your diamond 
and bring out the fun cool girl that you 
are when you're with your inner Village 
and so often we want to lead with our 
corporate facet with our masculine facet 
because again it's pavlovian we do that 
at work we get promoted we get more 
money we get more respect lather rinse 
repeat do it again and again and we 
think that because that success breeds 
success that's the Persona that you are 
but don't forget you're a diamond you 
can spin that facet around and be the 
girl that you are and I work with 
c-suite people entrepreneurs cert like 
high voltage people that we have these 
conversations all the time that's who 
you are in this facet of your life but 
who are you and most of us are you know 
we're kind warm smart people that just 
want to meet a good person and want to 
be accepted for who we are yeah without 
that without that work costume on like 
who am I really and I want you to love 
that part of me 
exactly I'm so glad I asked you about 
this on this conversation because giving 
all this career Insight I think 
um there is a masculinity to the tips 
and the tactics and the go-to's and the 
um and I think there's something so 
important about being able to be 
um not just in your love life but in 
your career I think that sometimes when 
you're so masculine you're forcing 
things you're pushing things and you 
often will get results you don't 
actually want anyway 
um and so to me a good question in my 
career that I ask sometimes is what's 
wanting to happen 
and I I answer that based on what I'm 
what feedback I'm getting from people 
around me like if you know I remember 
when I started my coaching business 10 
years 12 years ago people were like are 
you hosting any groups and I was like no 
are you hosting any groups and I kept 
getting asked by different people I'm 
like I guess yeah because this is 
wanting to happen and so I think it's 
it's powerful 
um to look at what feedback you're 
getting in the world 
um in love and also in your career and I 
mean I could talk about this stuff 
forever but obviously the parallels are 
just endless 
oh it's it's so true and and you know 
you've brought me to a place and I don't 
know that I've ever talked about this 
people often ask me you know how did you 
make the switch from running a non-stick 
coding company to becoming a dating 
coach and an entrepreneur right and and 
and it was hard the transition I call 
them the dark years I left my company my 
family and I owned a business everybody 
else retired when we sold and they I 
wanted to stay on and I loved it and I 
wanted the experience of running a 
Fortune 100 company and there were 
certain aspects I love love love and 
what I didn't realize is when you're 
part of a corporate organization and you 
love what you do and you do a good job 
they want to promote you they're like 
we'd like you to move to Nashville and 
run a bigger facility and I knew 
something inside of me I just knew to 
your point this isn't going to be my 
career I don't want to be and they said 
you could be the next blah blah blah 
female CEO of a multinational Enterprise 
and I just that put me into fight or 
flight like thinking about that I was 
like that's not for me I don't want that 
life and now I had a one-year-old at 
home so I left I'm like I want to do 
something different I knew I wanted to 
set people up but I didn't know how in 
the dating and matchmaking world so and 
I don't even know that I really knew 
that because here's what I did and you 
can laugh at this because I made a list 
when I sat down like what do I want to 
be when I grow up and I was young 
and I said okay what are all the things 
that I love to do and I made this long 
list of things activities I love I love 
drinking coffee in the morning I love 
talking to my friends I love helping 
them I love connecting people and then 
that long list I made the next column 
was what am I actually good at on this 
list right and that started that list 
got really small really fast and that's 
how I went from running a manufacturing 
company to doing work that fed my soul 
and was exactly who I am what did I 
value to Ashley's brilliant points 
earlier what I didn't know was what I 
valued I didn't know who I was I was a 
pleaser I am a performer you put me in a 
situation I will get A's I will be your 
best employee I am that person so I 
never sat back to say who am I right I 
love what am I good at because we get 
caught in the frenzy of our dad saying 
oh my gosh I'm so proud of you because 
you got straight A's well I better 
get straight A's and I better get into a 
good school and I and and we get caught 
in that and at some point the damn music 
stops and you're like I'm not a show 
monkey who am I and I I tell people 
sometimes it's a hard tunnel to walk 
through but it's so 
purposeful ultimately to say who am I 
how am I living my life what am I good 
at what could I do what would give me 
joy to get out of bed and do every 
single day and it comes naturally to me 
and having these conversations about 
work and finding your purpose in work I 
think you know one of the things I 
wanted to ask you is for people that are 
listening to this maybe you're you know 
maybe you're a 28 year old and you hate 
your job and maybe you're a 55 year old 
and your kids are gone and you've stayed 
home with them and you want you feel 
like you're so young and you have 
purpose what's some what's uh what's a 
way that people can get started with 
finding their purpose 
I think the first order of business when 
you feel disconnected is just to get 
connected to yourself 
um so if you're in a place right now 
where you don't feel connected to what 
you're doing instead of saying what job 
do I need or what job title should I be 
taking or what business do I need to 
start I think say what are the things I 
need to do to make me feel like myself 
again 
um for me I have a lot of good 
girlfriends there's a couple in 
particular where for some reason after I 
see them I feel like myself again 
um there I take dance classes I love 
hip-hop 
um believe it or not you know whatever 
people see me they're like you don't 
come across like you worked at the 
Pentagon and you don't come across like 
you like rap music but I do so dance 
classes you too that's amazing Bella so 
much so so I used to have a hip-hop 
instructor to teach my kids how to dance 
Too living out my dance fantasies so yes 
people say you ran a Fortune 100 
division you know how to drive a 
forklift and you like rap like swearing 
rap I do it's the best it's the best and 
like there's other stuff like for 
example I used to live in Los Angeles 
now I'm in New York but I love the ocean 
I used to put my feet in the water when 
I felt like I was just off and it 
brought me back to me in a lot of ways 
so my question for you is listening is 
what is your ocean you know what do you 
need to come back to you start there and 
then from that homeostasis you can make 
better choices of what feels right and 
what doesn't 
yeah and there's so many parallels to 
job search and partner search and think 
about the kind of partner that feels 
like home to you that feels like that 
soft cozy blanket and even if like 
Ashley you value connection sometimes 
that connection can lose Us in the 
sizzle and the high highs and the low 
lows what kind of long-term connection 
do you want who are the people in your 
life that make you happiest what do they 
feel like and start asking yourself the 
right questions to get you to live this 
life that you are in love with a job 
that you love a career whatever it is 
maybe you want to volunteer finding your 
purpose but asking yourself who am I do 
that soul searching work and if it's 
about love in the same way evaluate what 
have I been doing what's not working 
Where do I want to be and start to have 
those conversations with yourself and 
know the good news is unlike 20 or 30 
years ago there were no Ashley's there 
were no Bellas to help you to walk the 
paths that we have both walked and now 
we hold other people's hands through 
this process so reach out let us know 
you know Ashley if people want more 
information about you where can they 
where can they get more Ashley oh my 
gosh there's a whole lot of meat going 
around right now so my book is 
everywhere books are sold it's called 
U-turn get unstuck discover your 
direction design your dream career it's 
bright yellow you can't miss it my 
podcast is also called the you turn 
podcast which you were on I'm so happy 
you came on it's you turn two words and 
I'm on Instagram at Ashley Stahl 
oh my gosh you guys and I'm gonna have 
links to Ashley's book in the show notes 
as well so you can buy her book and see 
all things Ashley Ashley thank you so 
much for this really amazing 
conversation on purpose and more 
importantly how to define who we are and 
what we value I had goosebumps numerous 
times of things that you said so I know 
you've elevated me and taught me and I 
know you've taught the listener the same 
so big hugs to you thank you for being 
here and like always you guys if you 
like this leave us a review 
say the thing give us a good star rating 
there's no better gift than the gift of 
you listening to this and letting us 
know that you loved it so Ashley thank 
you again and we will see you next week 


author of nine books award-winning radio 
and tv host dr berman laura my friend 
thank you so much for being here i'm so 
happy to be here of course i know you've 
been talking a lot about manifesting 
love so tell us about how do we get to 
this version of ourselves so what you 
would do for free we don't think of as 
part of our purpose or our greatest 
gifts or our greatest authentic 
expression but boy is that at the center 
of it and then if you put that together 
with your greatest heartbreak you know 
you may end up crocheting blankets for 
ptsd and military vets right your 
greatest heartbreak is related to the 
ptsd your greatest passion and joy is 
crocheting boom you put them together 
and you have an outselling etsy store 
right the next thing you know exactly 
and just because you would do it for 
free doesn't mean yes you have to do it 
for no 
just like you would give dating advice 
right if you weren't doing this you'd 
probably just be kidding sing with 
people on the corner and with your 
friends that's what you'd be doing 


[Music] 
in the early years people would say like 
you should go out with that guy the 
answer to that is no you should not 
because what I quickly realized on 
dating apps what a lot of these guys 
want which is somebody very young and I 
don't mean that in To Catch a Predator 
way but just like malleable maybe brain 
damage something's wrong with her kind 
of drunk super horny like just this kind 
of like what I don't know any man who 
likes her is not going to like me an 
outspoken person with needs and a soul 
and them connecting to her even if it's 
as a bit says something there's a bit of 
social commentary in a fair amount of 
social commentary in there as well like 
when I was myself on dating apps when I 
was funny and I had a perspective and 
expectations I had a very different time 
on dating apps that's what I will 
say 


[Music] 
as true to bellagandi i am super excited 
and psychotically optimistic to 
talk to you about dating and anxiety so 
today i'm bringing you one of my 
partners in crime my colleagues in love 
eileen collins anxiety plagues most 
people at different times right nobody 
says i'm anxious and someone near them 
says what do you mean or what is that 
how many times have you heard i'm 
getting back into dating and i'm so 
anxious about it anxiety is meant to 
keep us on our a-game but what we want 
you to do is not have that bad anxiety 
while you're dating that either makes 
you shut down the app you think that you 
could never date because you're too 
scared of the rejection scared of what 
if they don't like me scared of how am i 
gonna exit this date if it's not going 
well it's like you're forcing your brain 
into what is happening around me right 
freaking now 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back 
this is your favorite episodes or your 
favorite set of episodes and mine and 
we're going to talk today about 
a real life person who is beautiful and 
amazing and Found Love after dark 
tragedy and she's going to tell you her 
story and what she did to find the next 
lid to her pot and without further Ado I 
welcome my 
former client current dear friend and 
new book author Don Anderson hi Dawn I'm 
so so happy to have you here I am so 
excited to be here thank you for asking 
me today Bella oh my gosh you are 
adorable and inspirational and you guys 
for anybody and you'll see this when you 
listen to Dawn to talk to Don Don has a 
certain je ne sais quoi the first time I 
talked to Dawn I was like 
I want to know this woman I want to help 
this woman the beauty that's on the 
outside is only pales to the beauty 
that's on the inside of of dawn so 
goodness you are so sweet fella thank 
you it's all real and you know I feel 
this way about you from my heart so 
feeling is mutual for sure so we were 
just talking about 
um 
screwball and peanut butter whiskey but 
I promise I will not be my dating 
squirrel ADHD self today that much Don 
tell us 
um kind of tell us about you you 
um and how you met 
the love of your life Mike just give us 
a little bit of backstory oh my goodness 
so just to give it some context Mike was 
Mike is my late husband who I lost in a 
tragic accident a few years ago but um 
but yeah there was so much to the story 
before that happened 
um tell us everything we're all ears 
well Mike Mike was amazing so I met him 
really young like I was only 17 years 
old but he was just a couple years older 
than me but I mean I don't know they say 
that sometimes you just know when you 
meet the right person well I was young 
and I knew that but I still like I knew 
that this was the man I was going to end 
up with like I don't know how you know 
that but I just did and so Mike was so 
we met in karate class isn't that funny 
so I love the 17 year old Dawn 
but just getting ready to go to college 
so I was just graduating from high 
school getting ready to go to college 
and I was in this karate class which was 
super fun I loved it and Mike had joined 
and 
I was actually dating the instructor at 
the time but we were on our way kind of 
out I was moving away it wasn't gonna 
work it wasn't going to be long term so 
um but uh so I met Mike and 
gosh number one he was so handsome and 
just but had this real quiet like real 
quiet energy and was so kind and sweet 
and 
um so I met him in the karate class 
and then I ran into him at a party 
and we just I remember our eyes kind of 
locked across the room and something 
clicked and it was magical and we talked 
and then later on we um got together and 
started dating and I went away to 
college but 
we still kept dating and I had so many 
people tell me advice like just you know 
keep your options open you're young 
you're in college you can't like settle 
on someone right this minute but I never 
doubted the fairy tale for a minute like 
this was my fairy tale and I was going 
to be with this person and we so neither 
one of us are perfect right because 
nobody's perfect but we were perfect for 
each other so like our strengths and 
weaknesses just complemented one another 
and 
we had all these big dreams and 
um he just supported anything that I 
wanted to do so 
you know and he was just the safe place 
for me he was home for me 
um 
so anyway we dated for a while because 
my dad was like you can't get married 
till you finish college and Mike went 
and asked for my hands in marriage he 
asked my dad in that old-fashioned way 
which I loved I didn't know he was doing 
it at the time 
um and my dad said yes 
uh but she has to finish college first 
so we waited out of respect for my 
family out of respect for everybody we 
waited till I graduated from college and 
then we got married and then 
um gosh it was just such a fairy tale 
for for so many reasons I mean we were 
so happy we traveled the world together 
we went everywhere together and I was an 
engineer that was my job 
and I'll never forget like 
well I so I was an engineer but I'm I 
was kind of an accidental engineer like 
that's not really me 
first of all suspend all disbelief how 
does one become an accidental engineer 
I'm telling you super humble so you're 
an engineer 
I am but I'm I anyway I I was an 
engineer and I had a good engineering 
job and uh 
but I just wasn't passionate about it 
not at all 
so I kind of knew it was in the wrong 
thing for me 
um 
because I'm an engineer but I don't like 
math like have you ever heard of such a 
thing I don't like math I love working 
with Engineers 
um they're wonderful people but uh just 
wasn't me so I so Mike and I decided to 
go to Africa on an African safari 
because I love nature I love 
um being outside I love animals and this 
was going to be our big trip before we 
had kids so we were like had this big 
trip planned and we went to Africa and I 
got off that plane 
and I was blown away like I I I still 
get goosebumps just even thinking about 
it so I got off the plane and like there 
was this wide expanse of Nature and all 
these animals and everything looked like 
it did maybe a million years ago I mean 
you hear about it you read about it in 
books you see it on TV but to like 
actually be in it was just life-changing 
for me so I knew it was life-changing 
even though I didn't know how my life 
was going to change so 
I got back to the US after this amazing 
trip like we saw elephants we saw the 
Great Migration we had you know Lions 
leopard cheetah it's all of those things 
that it's basically The Lion King if 
you've seen the movie The Lion King 
that's what it's like in Tanzania where 
I do my Safari so 
um 
so anyway I got back and I ended up 
um just writing a thank you note this is 
actually a really long story but I'll 
tell the abbreviated version so I wrote 
a thank you note to the guy who owned 
the company that 
um I went on the Safari with 
and it was a long thank you note though 
because I really like to write so I 
wrote on and on and on and he got it and 
he said thank you and then a couple of 
days later he said thank you 
um again for this thank you notes and I 
just can't stop reading it and I said oh 
well 
okay so we exchanged a few more emails 
and then he said I'd really like for you 
to work for me just kind of freelance on 
the side like would you be able would 
you be willing to write for my website 
and I said 
sure and I think I mentioned before I 
wasn't super happy with my job so I kind 
of noticed that this might be a foot in 
the door for something different 
and it was so he got what I wrote I just 
wrote about the five lodges where I 
stayed 
he got that and he said this is great he 
said the only problem is you have a very 
distinct writing style and it doesn't 
match anything else on my website so I 
really need to send you back to Africa 
for like a month and I'll pay you for it 
and I'll pay you to do it can you do 
that and I said 
yes yeah 
I don't know how I'm gonna make that 
work but basically at the end of this 
long story 
um I knew I had a job with the company 
when I got back from Africa and I 
remember talking to Mike about it and he 
was he was so supportive he's like wow 
this is your dream I said I know but I 
got to say goodbye to this 
high paying job it's an engineering job 
it's really secure he's like you have to 
go for this I mean he was so supportive 
and didn't even bat an eyelash about it 
so I did I jumped off the cliff and went 
and quit my job and went to work with 
this crazy idea with this Safari company 
selling safaris and 
um I remember 
nobody else supported me everybody 
thought I was crazy but not like the 
only the only three people in the whole 
world that thought I should do it were 
Mike and my parents my parents are like 
you go girl but I mean I could say I 
want to be an astronaut and they'd be 
like you go girl so so Mike and my 
parents and everybody else was like well 
this is adorable go get this out of your 
system and then when you're ready to 
come back to be an engineer you can do 
that and so 
um anyway I never long story short I've 
been doing it for 17 years I never went 
back 
I um it's been an amazing life and so 
Mike went to Africa with me several 
times and he was just like that with 
everything like 
we hardly I mean 
we never really fought I know some 
people might say that's bad 
like you have to have to disagreements 
but we just never really did we both 
just had a lot of empathy for each other 
and it's not that we never disagreed but 
we really really just put the other 
person first and so it was an amazing 
marriage it was an amazing life and 
um 
we were never able to have kids that was 
never in the cards for us but gosh we we 
really did have an amazing life and we 
ended up moving 
back to the little dinky Hometown where 
my family was from 
because Mike was going to help my dad 
uh Farm my dad was getting older he was 
going to retire and so Mike was going to 
help take over the farm and I could work 
from anywhere so as long as I have a 
phone and internet I can plan safaris 
from anywhere in the world 
and we were always like the Cayman 
Islands or you know this little rural 
town in the middle of nowhere and anyway 
the little rural town in the middle of 
nowhere won because that's where our 
family was and that just became our 
priority so 
so we did and 
um just never ever in a million years 
what I've seen 
what was coming down the road 
um 
so anyway I feel like I'm talking a lot 
is there anything else 
stage perfectly tell me how old were you 
now at this point 
you guys got married and you're you got 
married in your early 20s now you've 
been in African dreams Fires for 17 
years so when Mike and you came back to 
rural Kansas 
how old were you gosh I was in my 30s 
okay so probably early 30s and then we 
lived in 
the little rural Town 
um 
well I was 39. when the accident 
happened so when I said I worked for the 
Safari company for 17 years that's today 
today yeah I lost Mike back in 2016. So 
and again I mentioned not good at math 
so I don't know how old I was but I was 
in my 30s and I was 39 when 
when I lost Mike in the accident and uh 
uh so I 
it was a sudden accident of course it 
was 
um 
during my family's Harvest uh Harvest is 
a big time for wheat farmers and uh 
so Mike was just out there helping my 
family and helping my dad and uh he was 
working on a combine 
and 
it fell on him so the header fell off of 
the combine and shell on him so he was 
killed instantly he didn't suffer at all 
which was important for me to know you 
know later and uh My Poor Dad he was in 
the combine when it happened so uh he 
had to go through all of that and 
yeah that was huge I'll never forget 
when he came in the door to tell me what 
had happened like he was so strong and 
so wise and 
he basically said the three things that 
were most important to hear you know at 
the time was 
um 
it was there's been a tragedy so he told 
me the truth of what happened like he 
and he said Mike had died 
and then he said it's nobody's fault 
because it's hard to understand where 
your brain goes after that but I really 
needed to know these things in order to 
process all of the terrible grief that 
was coming down the pipeline so he told 
me that he told me what had happened in 
as few words as possible he told me it 
was nobody's fault and then he told me 
Mike didn't suffer because that was 
really important to my hearts so I um 
and then I was able to kind of process 
the rest of it but yeah it was no easy 
road so 
no easy Road I suppose like looking back 
you know 
um 
there's the grief of losing your best 
friend in the whole world and your 
husband and your future I mean the way 
you see it right 
um 
at the time and uh I mean your your 
whole your whole plan just got canceled 
so everything everything you know 
everything you know so there's that 
um and just losing that person so 
there's the grief of losing the person 
and then there's the grief of like 
losing I mean my identity was so wrapped 
up in 
Mike and me like people didn't even say 
you know Dawn people didn't say Mike 
people would be like Mike and Donald 
like we had kind of a collective title 
because we always did everything 
together and 
um so my identity was really wrapped up 
in him I think a lot of times when 
people get together and they're young I 
think they can grow apart because you're 
still not who you're gonna be right but 
we kind of just kind of grew together so 
our whole life was kind of enmeshed in 
each other and 
I mean not in an unhealthy way I don't 
think it kind of sounds that way when I 
say that but I mean we still supported 
each other very we're both very 
independent we both had our own dreams 
and goals and 
um we just supported each other in that 
so it was like this freeing thing it was 
a safe relationship but you were free to 
be whatever you wanted to be and do 
whatever you know you were meant to do 
so 
so we were tied up in that way so not 
only did I grieve was it grieving the 
loss of Mike this amazing person but I 
was also kind of grieving the loss of us 
and the life that we had so and who I 
was when I was with him I mean he really 
did bring out the best in me and 
so uh I kind of had to deal with all of 
those things and uh I just imagine Mike 
with this beautiful from the day I'm I 
first talked to you and you sent me 
pictures of him and pictures of the two 
of you for our first meeting to give me 
perspective on who you are who Mike and 
Dawn were and how you were coming 
through this tunnel on your own and 
you're right his photos just and he's so 
handsome you know like like a movie star 
as you would say and and YouTube Just 
emanated ease and joy in your photos 
easy I've heard you say that before like 
you know you're in the right 
relationship when it's easy when it's 
easy joyful 
and joyful so you 
um John has just written a great book 
and we're we're going through parts of 
this but I'm gonna say it's called the 
darkness and the stars and it'll tell 
you way more detail when I read her 
story I know the story like I know so 
many of my clients stories right it's 
sort of like okay here's the tunnel I've 
walked through and now here I am and I'm 
ready today but to read this book it's a 
beautiful 
explanation of what the days were like 
what that hour was like what she felt in 
her body and it gave me so much 
perspective and empathy for someone who 
goes through that sick trauma that 
hopefully nobody has to go through and 
and so if you know make sure I'll put a 
link in the show notes to the book but 
it's amazing and it'll tell you what 
this incredibly beautiful girl this 
strong woman went through to get here to 
tell you the story that she had as been 
through today so now let's Flash Forward 
a little bit you are in hell you 
are getting used to you you have this 
new life you've been thrust into a life 
that you did not choose and you did not 
want and at a certain point you feel and 
this must be some years ago where maybe 
you're ready to date maybe you're just 
ready to put something in the wound at 
this point what happened there to get 
you from A to B and then we'll get into 
your dating story 
yeah 
yeah so 
I mean it's there's grief is definitely 
an evolution like 
of course at the beginning of all of 
this I didn't know what I didn't know 
um and I know that everybody's 
who goes through grief their story is a 
little different and how they process 
it's going to be different I'm also 
interestingly enough and and I write 
about this in my book I mean there's a 
lot of things that are similar to you 
know a lot of the a lot of the 
the nuances are different but 
I think a lot of people going through 
grief are also United by a lot of the 
same sort of universal truths and some 
of the evolution is definitely going to 
be linked by some common thread you know 
but I say it just I say that just 
because this was my story it doesn't 
necessarily mean it's going to be the 
same for anyone else but like when my 
when I lost Mike 
there was the whole I mean I just kind 
of slipped into survival mode for a 
while yeah so you just take one day at a 
time 
but yeah losing him 
left a 
giant void like he was my best friend 
and 
um 
and and I had been with someone since 
you know I was 17. so I hadn't really 
been super single anytime as an adult so 
it was 
I didn't really like the idea you know 
if somebody said are you ready to date 
I'd be like no but at the same time I 
still had this big void 
um 
foreign 
and so I just kind of evolved I I ended 
up sort of dating someone accidentally 
we became friends first and 
then I ended up it ended up turning 
romantic and there were a lot of 
wonderful things about the relationship 
but and it did it was very uplifting I 
had this new person in my life who 
really really I felt like you saw me I 
felt 
um like he cared I felt he was filling 
in a lot of these voids but 
uh 
I was also still at a place where maybe 
I wasn't able to see some red flags over 
here on the side and uh 
and and so I was I was uh struggling a 
little bit I mean I was in this 
relationship but a few things just 
weren't quite right and 
the other person I was in the 
relationship with was wanting to take it 
to the next level and I it just didn't 
feel right in my gut and I didn't really 
know what to do I mean I would talk to 
friends and family and they would I felt 
like they were all censoring what they 
were saying you know like to kind of 
just 
um maybe they were giving me advice but 
it was always biased advice and so for 
sure 
I 
um anyway I felt like I was kind of in a 
vulnerable place and I didn't know what 
I didn't know but I did know enough to 
like not super trust my decisions at the 
time and I just needed someone to check 
me out like check check where I was let 
me bounce this off of someone and it 
just I happened to be watching Steve 
Harvey one day 
and he had Bella on and I was just kind 
of transfixed I was I don't remember 
what the episode was about I'm sure it 
was dating 
um but you were just like giving amazing 
advice and 
I was like huh I wonder who this person 
is like she seems pretty cool and you 
were a relationship coach and I was like 
I never really heard of that before but 
I mean people have coaches for other 
stuff like people have coaches for 
Fitness people have Financial coaches 
all of these other things and I've 
always put a lot of weight on like the 
person you choose to marry for example 
or the the person you choose to be with 
as your significant other because I feel 
like that permeates into all different 
kinds it's all different aspects of your 
life like 
it just takes a huge chunk so I put a 
lot of weight on that and I was like 
well why not have a relationship 
coach like it's so important it's such 
an important part of your life 
in it whether it's good or bad like if 
it's a bad if it if you're not with the 
right person it can really influence 
your life in negative ways anyway I was 
putting a lot of weight on it 
I I looked you up online and I found 
your website and I thought really like 
it's as easy as just emailing her or 
calling I think I just emailed you right 
and then we set up a time to talk 
and then I told you everything I told 
you all about my whole story we talked 
for a long time and you were so 
um 
we are such a friendly person anyway 
like it's really easy to click with you 
and I'm sure a lot of people do but I 
really did I felt like we were 
best friends from forever ago and I mean 
but but you were better than a best 
friend because you had like number one 
you were 
um 
you you were an expert like you already 
kind of knew like a lot of my friends 
were giving me advice but maybe it 
wasn't the best advice 
everybody means well but you were a 
relationship expert it wasn't your first 
rodeo and then also 
you um 
you could kind of look at it in a little 
bit 
clearer light than maybe me who was in 
the trenches and all these people around 
me giving me advice who were also kind 
of in the same trenches and so 
you just you didn't tell me what to do 
you just kind of gently guided me in the 
right direction and then after that 
phone call we agreed to like check in 
later and you just kind of let me be 
like you can't this can be some next 
steps if you decide to end this 
relationship there is a future for you 
it's not the end of the world like 
there's other things we can do 
and um 
so I did so I just kind of let the 
advice simmer I kind of let the whole 
scenario play out naturally but with a 
little bit more 
I felt a little more grounded I felt a 
little more centered 
and uh a little more confident that I 
was making the right decisions and 
that's didn't have to just be in this 
relationship because there was nobody 
else I could you know 
just keep my options open and as I was 
evolving in my grief and coming to 
Clarity a lot of these things became 
more apparent so you just kind of like 
gave me the the kick I needed to get 
where I needed to be so and I wanted I 
want to pause you right there and I want 
to make sure listeners you hear this 
that sometimes when we come into a 
relationship and we feel like huh there 
might be some red flags but I don't know 
typically what we tend to do is we'll 
keep brushing the red flags under the 
rug because we fear 
that this is the last person on Earth 
and wow I mean he's better than being 
alone or she's better than going back on 
the apps again but the resounding answer 
to that and like dawn said is wherever 
you are in your journey right now have 
hope that you don't need to settle for 
something that has red flags around it 
right there's all sorts of great 
relationships out there and there is a 
great future for you so if you're 
hanging into something that you know 
it's like Goldilocks it's like this 
chair feels a little too small or this 
chair feels a little too big you don't 
have to settle for that and so I'm so 
glad that that message 
made an impact on you that there is 
another future out there for you there 
is another mission for you should you 
choose to accept it 
right and I guess I just need it I just 
didn't see that at the time but of 
course after I talked to you I thought 
well maybe there are other 
possibilities and I hadn't even done any 
online dating yet so I this other person 
that I was in a relationship with just 
kind of happened through a friendship 
first and then anyway let one thing led 
to another and right so we were talking 
about the online dating and I um 
I 
I saw that as a way to expand my pool 
because I live in a very tiny little 
rural town in the middle of nowhere and 
I feel like I already know everybody in 
this town like I know it and so that 
brings its own anyway it's a it felt 
like a shallow dating pool 
um but we were talking about online 
dating and how you could kind of use 
that to expand your dating pool yeah and 
I also remember from Steve Harvey saying 
like if you find the right person you 
know there's really no just distance 
doesn't really matter in the end it's 
just an excuse so your soul mate is not 
gonna come from your ZIP code 
right so 
uh so so anyway but it also felt super 
intimidating because I'd already heard a 
bunch of stories about online dating and 
I'm like I don't know how to do it I 
don't want to do it and then 
um you just made it all more so much 
more manageable somehow like you said 
well this is what we'll do in 
uh it like I said it wasn't your first 
rodeo it was my first rodeo but it 
wasn't yours and so I felt like I would 
be sort of remiss to miss out on this 
opportunity to use your experience to 
kind of put my best foot forward and I 
just feel like I've been through enough 
I just had enough of the drama and the 
Heartbreak and the I just wanted 
something to 
um to be a little easier so I wanted to 
make it easy 
possible right like 
it can be hard this could 
this comes a great word like it's not 
all the serious business we make it all 
to be like let's have some fun so I 
never thought about having fun before 
terrible as that sounds like really this 
can be fun 
but uh so you made it super fun so we 
got together we um you helped me do a 
profile we did the whole photo shoot 
which was amazing you helped me know 
what to where I'm already staying to 
bring dresses and I was like oh Bella 
they've been waiting for this moment I 
love dresses she sent me no less than 25 
pictures of her in different dresses I'm 
like are you kidding me normally people 
like oh my gosh I don't have any dresses 
you're like no no no I love dresses and 
Dawn might be one out of a hundred 
people that do our photo shoots that 
didn't need to buy any new clothes at 
all because she's like I have long I 
have short I have sleeves I have no 
sleeves I have 
absolutely everything and my you know 
and and from Don's perspective it was 
that and from my perspective having been 
through these rodeos before what I know 
to be true with so many people whether 
you've come out of a you know what 
especially when you've lost a partner 
that was a very good partner the bit the 
risks that I see are you know it you 
know it's God's blessing you don't know 
in a sense what a bad relationship is 
sometimes you know you don't know what a 
red flag is and we've heard all these 
things like well marriage is work 
relationships are work so we think well 
you know I guess maybe my relationship 
with Mike was easy and maybe this is 
just going to be more work right and 
that's where we for me I want to rap and 
I wanted the minute I met John I'm like 
oh I want to wrap this girl in like 
extra sparkly extra padded pink bubble 
wrap and prevent her from any more hurt 
during this process right because 
sometimes when you've come out of 
umat Mike at 17. now you're thrust back 
into the dating World in your early 40s 
was that right well I was 39 when I lost 
him so yes I started dating I was in my 
early 40s you were in your early 40s and 
sometimes you you know it's it's funny 
it's like you know you wouldn't know a 
red flag if it hit you in the face you 
know to use an old expression right like 
we don't know because we come from 
what's good and your parents were lovely 
and so for you I think you know mission 
number one was just keeping you out of 
Harm's Way away from Red Flag people and 
not to rush into something too quickly 
because as a 17 year old you're like lid 
pot nice to meet you karate class let's 
do this right and and so now when the 
dating landscape has changed so much 
we're older now we're different people 
you're a different Dawn than you through 
this tunnel than you were back in that 
karate class right and it's like how do 
I navigate this so so you came to 
Chicago you're right we did your photo 
shoot and and I remember you asking me a 
question like Bella what's a really good 
Greek restaurant and I said oh you like 
Greek food you're like well I have the 
specific favorite food have you ever 
heard of musaka I said well yeah because 
I grew up with some people in musakas 
Lay meat and potatoes and I thought this 
a lovely girl from rural Kansas wants 
this Greek delicacy she's pretty cool 
and went out and said I had the best 
musaka I've ever had in Chicago when she 
came in for the photo shoot so now Flash 
Forward you go through our process you 
know who your next high GHQ guy is going 
to be we go through we make the list of 
your elevator people we talk about red 
flags how we're going to Pace your 
relationships you get your photos done 
you have her profile now your quote 
unquote launched online and what I 
remember is first of all covet happened 
right when you launched yourself online 
right when I did yeah that was it was 
huge bananas it was like March of 2020 
and Dawn being Dawn the Eternal 
psychotic Optimist was like oh my gosh I 
can't believe how any messages I'm 
getting and this is actually kind of fun 
and where are all these people come from 
and we're like you're beautiful and you 
have this beauty inside of you you're 
going to bring so many people to you 
regardless of how Rural and I just 
remember your mind being so blown in the 
beginning and correct me if I'm wrong 
like 
this is just fun and look at all these 
people that actually want to go out on 
dates with me I'm like you didn't think 
that's going to happen you're like Oh I 
thought that would happen so so it was 
so magical in the beginning and and you 
had lots of interest from a lot of 
different people right 
it was it was I did and I was pleasantly 
surprised like I did not know what to 
expect at all 
but I'm so glad you were there like in 
the beginning to like navigate some of 
this stuff I feel it some of the guys 
that I 
went on dates with or communicated with 
like 
I think I could write a sitcom about it 
you know like it's just there's been 
there were so many like classical 
like this guy is the player this guy is 
the anyway like you name it I like 
bumped into all these personalities and 
I feel like I'd write another book about 
that but of course I'm sure you could 
anyway 
um 
so you were kind of there to help guide 
me through 
all of that really and uh was able to 
kind of avoid some 
pitfalls I think and 
uh so and there were a few relationships 
that were just kind of difficult and you 
helped me navigate all of those it was 
so nice to have someone to talk to who 
uh you know 
kind of knew the the the dating 
landscape and kind of helped me avoid 
some of those pitfalls so that was 
invaluable and Priceless and uh 
yeah and then I 
found Matthew 
who I'm with today 
so that was uh that was that was 
interesting so Matthew was uh 
he lived about two two and a half hours 
away from where I lived 
did you all hear that two and a half 
hours away some of you were like oh this 
person's 10 miles away they're never 
gonna come two and a half hours so 
um oh I can't wait to to hear how this 
story unfolds because I've got details 
in my memory as well 
yes so 
Matthew was 
a very interesting person so I I 
remember 
um he was the opposite of boring and 
he really did catch my interest so we 
communicated a little bit uh with 
messages but one of the things I liked 
to do right away was talk to someone on 
the phone well resume wasn't really as 
big then as it is now but uh I 
definitely wanted to talk to somebody on 
the phone because I feel like you could 
learn a lot just by talking and having 
conversation 
and so and he wanted to do it right away 
like he's like I just want to talk on 
the phone and I was like oh because I 
got some resistance from people before 
they were like well you know they'd send 
another message or a text or whatever 
and 
just felt like I was kind of 
um burning some time doing that kind of 
stuff so I loved that so he wanted to 
talk on the phone and we talked on the 
phone 
for I know we were supposed to limit it 
I think like you limit your first 
conversations on the phone but I mean we 
it just naturally we just the time just 
flew by we would talk for hours on the 
phone 
and then 
uh and he was very funny he's very funny 
very outgoing 
um 
I could tell he was just a really he had 
been through a lot in his life as well 
so he also had kind of a depth and a 
capacity that I was 
attracted to and you learned that when 
you talk to someone on the phone so we 
talked on the phone a lot like a lot and 
he uh and then he wanted to meet me 
and because it was during covet it was 
hard like I didn't want this strange man 
to come to my house for the first time 
but really we were limited on where we 
could go so we just decided he lived two 
and a half hours away from where I did 
and there's this charming little town 
that's just halfway between our two 
towns and we just decided to meet there 
there's a park with a castle 
and a place to sit outside and this was 
in the spring so we just decided to have 
a picnic 
and it was such a fun first date like I 
remember the first like when we first 
met 
um 
I was still sitting in my car and he 
just pulled up and he got out and he 
like this is just Matthew like he just 
says what he thinks he's super honest 
which is you know a blessing and a curse 
sometimes but he's very honest and uh 
just said oh my gosh you are so pretty 
I was caught off guard by that because a 
lot of times people are kind of reserved 
when they first meet you or kind of you 
know it was very disarming so I just 
laughed and that was the start of the 
first date and so we got some our little 
picnic basket and I he brought the food 
and I brought the wine and we went and 
sat at a picnic table and just talked 
for hours and then we walked up in into 
the castle which was all it's a very 
simple Castle I say castle in a very 
generous way it's more like a little 
castle sounds very Grand this is it is a 
castle sort of it's more like a little 
fort that's outside that sits on top of 
a hill it's very pretty it has a great 
view but it's 
it's um quite rustic so and it's all 
it's all open 
air so we like went up to the top to 
deck and he just let me talk and talk 
and talk 
and uh 
it was and he made me laugh so much like 
I've never 
he's one of the funniest people I know 
so he would just make me laugh and he 
would tell these stories and then 
at the end of the date he was very 
respectful like such a gentleman like I 
had been on some dates where 
like I don't even know if you really 
like me like you know there's not any 
kind of uh invitation for a next date 
there's not any kind of uh 
I don't know like something affirmative 
nothing affirmative nothing to confirm 
everybody's very guarded sure he was the 
opposite of that so it was he was very 
appropriate but gave me just a very nice 
peck on the cheek you know to say 
goodbye wanted to see me again had held 
my hand for the Three Steps From The 
Castle to the car and then 
you know looking back on that kovid was 
kind of a blessing in a way because 
really you just go on a date with 
someone in a normal sit-down restaurant 
and you just talk for 
an hour or two maybe and then you go 
your separate ways but we like spent the 
whole afternoon into the evening 
together and then 
parted ways and so uh during the course 
of one of our phone conversations so the 
other thing that I didn't know at the 
time of course I know now but just to 
kind of set it up into context Matthew 
loves to cook he loves to cook he's a 
very good cook 
um but I had told him you know we would 
ask each other questions on the phone 
just getting to know each other one of 
them that came up at one point was what 
is your favorite food and I was like oh 
musaka and he was like 
what what is that 
and I said oh well you can't make it I 
said you just like when I go to new 
cities you know there's no place around 
here this serves me Saka so when I go to 
different cities I always try to find a 
Greek restaurant and then I order the 
musaka just because it's fun to see how 
it's different in different places 
um again this is that Greek dish which 
is 
um 
very complicated to make it's kind of 
like a lasagna only way worse because 
you have to cook the food like if you're 
gonna try to make it you have to cook 
the potatoes and eggplants and squash 
you don't cook it all together you cook 
it in different layers so you have to 
put it in the oven for 40 minutes take 
it back out put on another layer put it 
in the oven for 40 minutes take it back 
out put it on another and then you know 
you keep doing that and then there's 
this vegetable sauce which is like you 
need a magic trick to make it like it's 
very uh 
it's still kind of uh Voodoo to me I'm 
not even really sure so I said no no no 
because I kind of thought maybe he was 
thinking oh well maybe I'll make that 
for dinner sometime and I'm like no no 
no no you know I I didn't mean it like 
I said I also like spaghetti I also like 
pizza you know I like peanut butter and 
jelly sandwiches so so he was so little 
did I know he was making a mental note 
um so anyway on our second date we again 
we met in the same little Charming town 
that sits just between us and uh we sat 
in the we got a blanket and sat in the 
park and asked each other questions and 
I think I told you Bella we were solving 
all the problems of the world and 
figuring every everything out and just 
had very um in-depth conversations and 
then at the it was getting time to go 
find something to eat but of course our 
options were limited so 
um 
he went to so we were going to go try 
and find a sandwich shop or something 
where we could go get sandwiches and 
bring it back to the park and he's like 
no no I have a surprise for you so he 
went to the back of his car and pulled 
out this giant like plate of musaka he 
had mates he's practiced on his family 
the whole week before he had made it it 
was like his fourth time trying to make 
it because it was hard it was hard and 
he kept messing it up and so he finally 
figured it out ate the vegetable sauce 
and had this whole plate of moussaka and 
I was stunned I was floored this was 
only our second date I'm like wow he's 
definitely paying attention and he has a 
lot to try 
I remember when you called me and told 
me this and I was like okay second date 
musaka made it four times to perfect it 
I was like either this guy is bananas or 
she's gonna marry him it's one or the 
other and of course there's me are you 
at the public place 
we were we we went to a gas station and 
like heated it up in their microwave and 
then brought it back out to the park and 
had our moussaka and it was so good he 
really did a good job so that was really 
fun yeah was one of the things I really 
liked about him like he didn't really 
hold back he was very much like and 
that's just how Matthew does life right 
like he's like I know this is what I 
want and I'm gonna go after it with 
everything that I can so it's been like 
that ever since like he really does have 
he he he just lives his life with so 
much heart and so much to try and he's 
so generous and so loving and um he's 
just become my biggest cheerleader in 
the whole world like he'll he'll do I 
know that if it was him in that place 
where I'm hey I'm getting ready to quit 
my engineering job 
and go sell safaris like good luck with 
that like he would be like you go girl 
he would be that guy so that's I I kind 
of thought maybe that was a rare find 
oh he was such a rare find and I 
remember so many of our conversations in 
the beginning about things to dig deeper 
on things to ask about like what caused 
the divorce where do you want to be like 
and really through this process 
Excavating the details that are 
important to know about this person's 
past but more importantly we don't hold 
anybody's past against them but the the 
question is always what have you done to 
grow yes and what impressed me about him 
from the get-go is this is a guy that 
was invested in being the best version 
of himself and again like John saying 
Matthew and I haven't met Matthew but 
yet I feel like 
through our conversations over the last 
several few years now I feel like this 
is a person that in a good way wears his 
heart on his sleeve and he lives out 
loud and he's fiercely loyal to the 
people in his tribe and he will you know 
he's probably that guy that if your 
Tire's flat at three in the morning you 
got a short list of people who would 
come out and rescue you and Matthew 
would be that guy who's on everybody's 
list that knows him that's exactly right 
no that that ex you explained it very 
well and uh 
it and you know it was a lesson for me 
as well I mean one I kind of needed to 
learn that I didn't even really know 
that I needed to learn but I mean 
Matthew 
is very different than Mike my late 
husband I mean Mike had a lot more 
um 
uh just a different demeanor so so 
Matthew he like I said he he sees 
something and he goes after it with his 
whole heart like if he really really 
wants it he doesn't hold back he wears 
his heart on his sleeve and uh 
like in the beginning that almost felt 
like too much to me at times and I 
needed him to slow down and one of the 
really really impressive things about 
him at one point when I did kind of put 
the brakes on the car where we were 
going with the relationship and I told 
him I needed a break 
because I was still getting over a lot I 
was still dealing with a lot and all of 
a sudden have someone pursuing me like 
like like he was in talking about 
marriage already some big big life 
changes it just felt like a lot to me 
and uh so he did you know he put the 
brakes on he 
um was so respectful and 
um but but still gently pursued me uh in 
in a way that felt good to me and and I 
really admire that about him is his 
capacity to adjust and and change and 
um 
anyway it's he's coachable false yeah 
he's coachable and one of the really 
nice side benefits about 
that was that you know we were in this 
like 
I don't know in the beginning it I mean 
it was fun but it's still like this 
you're meeting someone and then you're 
kind of thrust into a romantic 
relationship with them 
and you don't have a lot of history you 
don't have a lot of background yet so 
I felt like when we took a little bit of 
a pause 
we still saw each other but just more 
casually more as friends and we would 
talk on the phone sometimes 
and that allowed us to really get some 
depth to the relationship so we became 
really really good friends like he is my 
best friend now like we became just 
amazing friends got to know each other 
even better and then 
allowed the romance to kind of take care 
of itself with that Foundation 
underneath of it and that has been the 
secret sauce for us on on making you 
know making some progress in a way that 
feels good to me because I tend to be 
more reserved I tend to be more 
um careful to a fault maybe sometimes 
and uh so in that way I feel like we 
complement one another uh and it's a 
good it's a good match and he like he's 
so creative he's so generous he's so 
wonderful and uh 
I just had to allow myself to to see all 
of those traits kind of just Bloom 
rather than um well he's not what I 
expected exactly so I'm just gonna shut 
the door you know what I mean so anyway 
it was so different he's so different 
than Mike and that happened is hard in 
the beginning it's hard it's like here's 
a man who I was with for 20 years that 
had a quiet confidence right that was 
just peaceful and maybe emerged from a 
room a day later with the solution and 
you didn't know he was working on it and 
then juxtaposed and Mike loved you 
fiercely and was your biggest 
cheerleader and now to go to a 
personality with somebody who will you 
know bust down walls for you and has a 
confidence that may not be quite as 
quiet but assertive in a sense so just 
the personality differences to navigate 
that and when you have lost someone you 
love and I can only imagine to accept 
somebody who's different is hard 
yeah it was hard and I had to allow 
myself time and space to evolve to that 
place where I could do it but I'm so 
glad that I also have the capacity to 
change and evolve and we've really 
evolved together in this relationship 
and it feels really good now and so and 
I realized a lot of that had to do with 
me like looking back a lot of it had to 
do with me and like being in a place 
where I needed to be in order to take a 
step forward 
absolutely and you guys know the 
research shows that in heterosexual 
relationships at least men can fall in 
love harder and faster than women right 
and and so it doesn't but yeah yeah and 
it doesn't necessarily mean oh my gosh 
is he a narcissist does he love bombing 
he's declaring his love for me right 
away it just means okay 
with that being said if this person is 
moving faster than you want more 
assertively than you want then the 
litmus test it's not that the litmus 
test for is this person a good partner 
for you is how do they respond to you 
putting the brakes on do they have a 
hissy fit and a tantrum and say you're 
losing out on the best thing that's ever 
happened to you or do they say it's okay 
I understand it might hurt but let's do 
this on your terms I'll wait and that is 
always the litmus tester just because 
somebody comes out of the gate making 
you musaka in the back seat on the 
second date you might go oh my God Don 
was being love bombed not necessarily 
and this is the beauty 
of time through the process there is no 
substitute in the dating and 
relationship process for one commodity 
and that's time yeah and I remember you 
saying that to me several times yeah 
yeah and letting something breathe hell 
we train for marathons for eight months 
we let a bottle of wine breathe for an 
hour but with relationships we want to 
know right now is it gonna work is it 
right is it left it's like hold on let's 
just see what happens step by step by 
step and for you listening to yourself 
yeah and being okay and I remember fully 
supporting and in fact advocating to 
pull the push the brakes pump the brakes 
this is a good man he just he 
you have to do things at a rate that 
you're comfortable at yeah and that's 
part of my nature and it's also where I 
was in my sort of evolving out of my 
grief process and transitioning into a 
brand new life like that was huge and I 
really just needed to go at my pace and 
so everything you said is spot on about 
giving it time 
and that's and he allowed me to do that 
which I I agree is a great litmus test 
you know he could have uh moved on 
quickly but he did not do that he did 
not and nor did you and open 
communication from a place of love 
that's honest right is what in a sense 
keeps I call it the relationship 
container it keeps the container clean 
you always want to wipe the lint out of 
the container never let the dirt build 
up in that and being open and honest 
where you are these These are the tests 
of is somebody going to be a good 
partner for you if they don't agree to 
pump the brakes on in the beginning what 
are they going to be like 10 years down 
the road right right if you're not 
willing to respect a wish like can we 
talk on the phone first and like you 
were saying you were getting friction 
from God well I just really like to meet 
that shows you who this person is are 
they flexible are they willing to say 
okay sure I'd meet you halfway yeah 
let's talk on the phone I'd love to meet 
but that's a great idea let's do it this 
way these are all little kicks to the 
tire of a used car that you want to buy 
maybe that's not the best metaphor but 
you know what I mean and it's like yeah 
you're giving this person you're you're 
seeing how could we navigate the 
differences in between us right because 
as easy as a relationship could be 
between you and Mike or you and Matthew 
or me and Andy for example that doesn't 
mean it's conflict-free it doesn't mean 
it's friction free ever it means and if 
we're in relationships where we feel 
like wow you know it's just it's easy we 
never fight you and Mike oh knew each 
other well enough that you'd be like I'm 
gonna give in to this because I know 
this is really going to make her happy 
and give him but that's not not using 
your voice that's you know the other 
person you know yourself that is 
surprising your boundaries right and so 
conflict in even the most beautiful 
relationships still exists conflict 
exists when you put any two human beings 
together for a long enough time yeah 
family members children Spa houses step 
children colleagues it happens but what 
do you do how do you navigate through 
that conflict and what you and Matthew 
were able to do is navigate those 
differences in where you were in the 
relationship to the point where you 
could both accept the other person and 
meet each other 
when and where you were ready so now 
flash forward to 
this engagement that happened in a very 
special place tell us tell us the second 
lid to your pot musaka Matthew what 
happened well 
so we decided 
um 
I I just wanted to go to Paris I mean 
really I wanted to go to Paris uh had 
nothing to do with an engagement or 
anything like that 
um 
but he fully supported a trip to Paris 
anyway one thing led to another 
and he took me to Paris Last Summer 
and 
man Matthew does big gestures really 
well like so he 
did this one really well I mean we got 
engaged right at the foot of the Eiffel 
Tower he had a professional photographer 
there to like capture all of the moments 
he told me we were just going out on a 
photo shoot 
so because I wanted to do that like you 
know a chance to wear a dress anytime 
right of course one of John's 30 dresses 
so he's like we'll just do a photo shoot 
um that was the reason for the 
photographer and so we both got dressed 
up and then we went we were taking a 
walk with the 
photographer and she's like why don't 
you just go over there like over there 
by the river and I'll get some pictures 
of you two together and I said no I 
don't want to because I thought Matthew 
was gonna pick me up and like anyway I 
was afraid I was gonna fall on the river 
so she's like no just trust me just go 
do it and I said okay I did and then I 
turned around and Matthew was already 
there and he was already down on one 
knee and he had the most amazing ring 
and asked me to marry him and it was 
beautiful it was epic in every way so 
but that's Matthew like he just knows 
how to do things really well he's all 
for celebrating life and living big and 
why not I mean life is short so 
um so we got engaged and now we're 
planning a wedding for this fall 
how beautiful and how do you feel did 
you ever think you'd be in this place 
no but you don't know what you don't 
know you know what's that saying uh God 
made the world round so you can't see 
too far ahead 
I love that thing because uh the good 
stuff the bad stuff all the stuff that 
comes along the way I mean really we 
don't know what's ahead and 
um 
and so that's my my big takeaway from 
from all of this I mean 
going through grief and losing Mike I 
mean it changed me as a person forever 
but 
I think it it made me a a better person 
and as I've continued to evolve through 
the whole grief process and opening my 
heart to new possibilities for the 
future I mean I was really reluctant to 
do that for a really long time you feel 
like I think when you're when you're in 
that grief process you kind of feel 
mistakenly like you're honoring the 
person that you lost by staying 
by suffering by staying stuck like 
somehow you're honoring 
them but that's not really true in my 
opinion I even though it feels like it 
at the time 
I feel like you honor them more by by 
living you know that's what I would want 
for Mike if I was the one who left 
before him and so I know he 
would want that for me and so anyway 
just but but again it's easy to say it 
in this place where I am now but I was 
nowhere close to where I am now back 
then you know several years ago right 
after I lost Mike so I think the other 
big takeaway is just 
if you're going through something like 
this and I suppose 
some of the people who you're working 
with you're probably working with a 
segment of that demographic or people 
who have lost spouses and yeah not 
something that they chose to have happen 
um you know just be patient with 
yourself like 
just be patient with yourself like 
you're gonna get there but just put one 
foot in front of the other and uh 
and allow yourself to evolve to that 
place where you're ready to do something 
new and it doesn't mean that you are 
um 
dishonoring the person that came before 
the new person I the the capacity of the 
human heart is amazing there's no limit 
on the love that you can give so 
just because I love someone else doesn't 
diminish the love I had for Mike in any 
way it's amazing There's No Limit 
there's no capacity 
so 
um so I'm just grateful that I can look 
back on the road that I've traveled 
and uh you know my my hope with my book 
is that I can help other people too like 
one of the things that really helped me 
when I was first going through grief was 
reading other people's stories it was so 
validating 
um because all these other people around 
me 
they wanted to help me I was surrounded 
by friends and family who loved me 
dearly but they really weren't they 
hadn't gone through what I had gone 
through 
um they just weren't in a place where 
they could meet me 
where I was in this grief tunnel 
and by reading the stories of other 
people who had gone through grief it was 
so validating it made me feel like I 
wasn't alone so that's what I did with 
my book is I just wanted to help other 
people 
um 
I wanted to help other people like other 
people helped me and 
so really those were the three things 
that helped me the most 
um I think get through grief was 
you know just 
helping other people was was probably 
one of the most cathartic things well 
writing writing was an important way for 
me to process my grief and then helping 
other people and then also finding ways 
to honor Mike so like all the proceeds 
of any of my book sales it's all going 
to charity so I just wanted to mention 
that too because 
um I I wanted to honor Mike in some way 
so that allowed me to 
by helping other people I feel like I'm 
honoring him kind of doing it in his 
name 
well what you're doing and it gives me 
goosebumps is not is all coming from 
that place of love it was loving 
yourself and letting yourself tell your 
story and to pay it forward 
to the people that would walk through 
grief and they don't even know that it 
might be coming that that's going to be 
part of their story because the Giants 
that lifted you up probably have no idea 
that their words and their stories 
lifted you up so you are doing God's 
work I'm going to put a link to Dawn's 
breathtaking story called The Darkness 
and the stars by Don Anderson in the 
book I couldn't be prouder of you for 
who you are as a human being and just 
the um 
I ca I still kind I I'm I'm rendered 
speechless not very often I don't know 
what I must have done right to have 
someone like you in my life and be able 
to hold your hand through your journey 
and wrap you in pink sparkly bubble wrap 
but I'm just I'm so grateful I knew from 
the first call we had back in 2019 that 
you got into my heart in less than an 
hour I was like and I think I would just 
ping you in between like hey it's Stella 
from Smart dating Academy just checking 
on you and before you had even made the 
leap because you have that um that you 
are like a giant walking heart and to 
know you is to love you and 
um thank you for trusting me through the 
process thank you Bella I can't tell you 
how grateful I am for you thank you I 
think sometimes people are put in their 
life for a reason and I believe that 
so I'm so grateful that I have you in my 
life and thank you for holding my hand 
and helping me get through that really I 
can't say enough about it 
oh well I can't wait to see wedding 
pictures and is there any parting words 
of advice you'd want to give the single 
people that are coming through the 
tunnel 
hmm 
just you know 
people be patient with yourself like be 
really patient with the whole evolution 
of grief it's real tempting to kind of 
stagnate there and get lost 
um 
in that tunnel especially in the early 
stages of grief when it's all still so 
very 
Raw 
you don't have to have it all figured 
out I don't think I had the capacity to 
see beyond one step in front of me you 
know for a long time so be patient with 
yourself and don't lose hope I mean 
there is a giant world out there and you 
can honor the person 
that you lost by living like that's the 
best way to do it and and helping other 
people is probably one of the best ways 
I help that that helped me cope so um 
yeah don't lose hope and uh and be 
patient with yourself 
oh I love that well thank you so much 
for sharing with us that you can have 
one lid to your pot and you can 
certainly find another it's going to be 
a different lid you might have gone from 
a red lid to a green lid or a cast iron 
lid to a tempered glass lid but there 
can be more than one lid to your pot 
more than one soul mate and again to 
support Dawn and the foundation that she 
set up for Mike and all of her proceeds 
will go to charity help my friend out 
and buy her book and share it with 
anybody that you know that is going 
through grief share this episode with 
anybody who is going through grief 
because if somebody has lived to tell 
and exercised that muscle of resilience 
and been to Hell and back more than 
almost any other human I know it's you 
so thank you for being here and thank 
you for writing your book and thank you 
for sharing your story and I think we're 
going to have you on again to talk about 
married life ah 
honor One Foot In Front of the other 
Absolutely I'll be here all right well I 
love you Dawn thank you for being here I 
love you fellas thank you so much it's 
an honor 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back I am so excited to bring 
you this week's episode if I talk about 
fixing your picker this episode is going 
to blow your mind because it's going to 
be like fix your freaking picker because 
Dr Rock bad is Our Guest today and she 
is I mean she's the chair what you are 
the chair of the Department of Sociology 
at Manhattan College she's amazing she's 
a doctor her name is Roxana bad DOA and 
so we're gonna go by Dr rockbat and she 
is going to talk about attachment on 
steroids which is called family 
constellation therapy which is how all 
of this stuff 
from our families not just Mom and Dad 
comes into play with all of the [ __ ] 
that we do in our lives or we don't do 
so Dr rockbat thank you for being here 
hey y'all um yeah I'm Dr Roxana bad DOA 
and as Bella mentioned I'm an inherited 
family trauma Liberation scholar and I'm 
a professor of women and gender studies 
and critical race and ethnicity studies 
and the chair of the sociology 
Department at Manhattan College I am 
also a mother to like wonderful Fierce 
energy beings and so you know what all I 
mean what that what this all means is 
that I think study write and teach about 
and identify and resolve generational 
woundedness and 
vulnerabilities otherwise known as 
traumas that impact how people show up 
in their relationships particularly 
romantic ones and how people operate in 
the world with others I use a specific 
therapeutic method known as family 
constellations and I've been doing this 
for almost 20 years now Family 
constellation therapy so let's so let's 
put some let's put a definition around 
that we talk about attachment Theory 
right and attachment Theory has been 
made pretty mainstream now through a lot 
of books a lot of videos but typically 
people talk about attachment is 
something that happens to us based on 
our relationships with our parents from 
zero to five right and but family 
constellation therapy or family 
constellations what you believe and what 
I completely subscribe to is it goes 
well beyond that it's not just Mom and 
Dad it's Mom and Dad siblings people 
that are alive that are not alive 
grandparents and how all of those 
traumas can be experienced by us as well 
like talk to us about this yeah yeah so 
let me tell you um let me tell you a 
little bit more about family 
constellation um so family constellation 
therapy is psychotherapy that's like no 
other it's it's like Psychotherapy on 
Red Bull with like a shot of espresso 
girl that is my 
speed so it merges it merges known 
psychotherapeutic models you know like 
behavior therapy and it includes 
inherited family trauma and here's the 
kicker along with indigenous 
epistemology which prioritizes the role 
of our ancestors in Our Life Choices so 
most definitely there is a critically 
important spiritual component in family 
constellation therapy and I want to tell 
you about two basic assumptions that 
inform family constellation therapy the 
first one is shaped by Austrian 
psychotherapist Alfred Adler and he 
argued that there are bonds and a sense 
of belonging that exists within a family 
tree and the second one is by German 
psychotherapist Bert helinger and he 
posits that our problems and issues 
stift through generations to cause 
stress in our lives and so for me I take 
this to mean that how we operate in 
relationships especially romantic ones 
and how we show up in the world they're 
informed by generational generational 
familiar generational familial patterns 
and I I want to make a point here um it 
is true that Adler and helinger brought 
family constellation into popularity but 
this psychotherapeutic model is informed 
by indigenous epistemology so I really 
want to respect uh indigenous 
epistemology and the ancestors because 
the reality is helinger learned while 
living in South Africa in the 1950s that 
the Zulu right right yeah buried their 
dead in their homes in reverence of 
their ancestors and so the 
inment of the dead and the living gives 
rise to this modern psychotherapeutic 
model and so so for me uh family 
constellation is it's a systemic and 
psychospiritual therapeutic model that 
reveals the hidden intergenerational 
Dynamics in a family 
a relationship a 
situation and my therapeutic approach is 
towards balancing or 
neutralizing or what I call liberating 
the system and so simply put I identify 
patterns of generational traumas in 
family lines and I work to create 
relationship 
interactions that are authentically 
supportive and 
nourishing 
I love that I love that so much and 
Define what is it 
epistemology it's not epistemology is 
knowledge it's knowledge 
production and so uh we are very quick 
particularly in the US a lot of uh 
mental health healing 
practices um are considered 
European uh but in fact the root is 
these healing practices come from 
indigenous communities so the knowledge 
is 
indigenous I love that okay great so 
okay go like this is 
so fascinating so it goes well beyond 
just Mom and Dad but it makes a lot of 
logical sense right because our 
parents are the products of their 
parents and their extended family units 
right and so what you're saying is so 
rich and so Broad and I love I love the 
perspective that it brought to me I when 
you and I first connected over the phone 
several weeks ago to decide on doing 
this podcast together I was talking to 
my mom about family constellation 
therapy and we're like oh my gosh this 
is amazing why don't more people talk 
about 
this right right um so I think then it's 
really important since you and your mom 
were talking about you know why do you 
know let's let's let's think about doing 
doing this I think it's really important 
for me to share with the listeners a 
little bit about the process and kind of 
demystify uh how I do this work um so 
look apart from generalized talk therapy 
with couples and you know educating 
couples on uh collaborative 
communication 
strategies I use what I call trauma Ecom 
maps and genot traag so I'm going to 
take some time to to talk about trauma 
Ecom maps and genot trogs so um in a 
trauma ego map I ask for responses to 
three questions to assess how folks have 
chosen to show up in the world and I do 
so by creating a Topography of their 
relationships so topography meaning a 
map right I create a map and the three 
driving questions are who's important in 
your life where do you spend most of 
your time and what groups memberships do 
you hold so I use these three relational 
threads to determine strength and 
weaknesses of bonds 
uh the direction of the relationship 
energy right whether the relationship is 
reciprocal or not and I also look for 
stress bonds so the trauma Ecom map 
shows me where and how someone is 
showing up in the world where they're 
putting in too much energy where there 
might not be enough 
energy so for example if I came into you 
and I'm like I'm having like I can't get 
this right Dr Rock I have dated and 
married narcissist or avoidance people 
that aren't good for me you would ask me 
those three questions as a starting 
point I would ask you those three 
questions yes because I want to know 
what your support system looks like and 
what decisions you've made about where 
you've decided to put your energy so if 
you saw my trauma Ecom map most of my 
energy goes into my work world because 
that's where I'm most comfortable but 
then that means that some of my other 
connections are a lot weaker all right 
right right I would probably be in that 
same quadrant for example yeah yeah yeah 
yeah a lot a lot of us a lot of us make 
those choices because it's just more 
comfortable for us right we don't want 
to think about the other stuff because I 
get to do this at work I love what I do 
and then I don't need to think about my 
intimate Partnerships and my role as a 
mother I don't need to think about that 
that much because they make me 
uncomfortable sure 100% so yeah so Sor 
go ahead no I was going to say that e 
well there's the trauma Eco map but then 
there's also the genot traag which is my 
primary tool and with the genot trag 
with what your mom and you were talking 
about 
I assess three at least three 
generations of a family lineage and I 
ask questions around marriages and debts 
and siblings and pregnancies right I 
asked questions about like abortions and 
miscarriages uh mental health family 
illness violent historical events right 
and I I compile all of this together and 
I use the genot traag to ident ify what 
is known as a break in the bond with 
caregivers in the lineage that is my 
first intervention right with caregivers 
in the lineage the and the reason that I 
do the reason I do this is because my 
work is driven by attachment Styles and 
attachment Styles go in overdrive as you 
know in 
romantic 
relationships so um so I follow the work 
of Balby and answorth right so John John 
Balby argues as as you know that we're 
that we're we're pre-programmed to form 
attachments with others as a function of 
survival and Mary anworth argued our 
attachment style is dependent on the 
behavior our mother showed us so one of 
the ways I use this 
framework is to explore our 
relationships to our mothers in the womb 
okay I explore relationships to our 
mothers in the womb and I look for 
something called a core negative 
statement so I have a lot of patients 
who will say something to the effect no 
one will love me right I'm unlovable 
right that's the statement and so then I 
use this statement to engage in inner 
child therapy and with a concept called 
The Knowing field in family 
constellation therapy to therapeutically 
work with three different anchors I work 
with the physical I work with the 
mental and I work with the emotional and 
I use these three anchors to support an 
argument or my positionality and my 
argument is that our womb environment 
informs how connected we feel to our 
external environment and how safe we 
feel in relationships particularly 
romantic 
ones so look work working with me is a 
highly emotional like embodied 
experience because I work to release 
whatever needs to be released from our 
bodies so that we can move forward in 
life with our 
emotions in functional manner it's 
amazing I mean what you're saying to 
some extent makes so much sense and we 
don't think about it in this way the 
environment when you're a little you 
know what do you call it a fetus or an 
embryo you're a baby right we're all we 
all come from a uterus right and now if 
you think about what was your mom going 
through during her pregnancy right and I 
can tell you for example my parents are 
immigrants and my mom met my dad on a 
Sunday they were engaged on Thursday 
married 72 hours later then he went back 
to the United States she joined him nine 
months later after living in a stressful 
environment with her in-laws and 
basically had married a stranger went to 
a strange country was incredibly 
homesick and then got pregnant with me 
so now think about all of like what this 
and she was 
21 right and so if you think about all 
of the things that were going on in her 
body that high levels of stress maybe 
fight or flight what you're saying makes 
so much sense and I love it because and 
tell me I'm off track here you can 
have three different children right two 
the same parents but three kids can come 
out completely differently yet and we 
always say well it's on the parents but 
there's so much more to this yeah yeah 
yes and your story and my story is the 
same my mom came here at 21 I mean this 
is what I this is what I want us to 
think about my mom's in a new country 
like yours she got pregnant with me she 
doesn't speak the language fluently yet 
she's disconnected from her from her 
family unit and my dad is off doing 
doing his you know my dad was a surgeon 
he's off doing his job it's at the 
hospital all the time and she's scared 
[ __ ] she's young she's 21 and no friends 
yeah no support system and coming from a 
culture that is an extended family 
culture right there are cousins and 
aunts and uncles and grandparents and 
people everywhere to coming to complete 
isolation exactly EXA exactly and so you 
and I I'm sitting here just kidding 
right you and I were both sitting in 
wombs that were stressed and so you can 
you can bet that the cortisol levels 
were up right her adrenaline was pumping 
and so that means that that that is our 
chemical makeup too wow and that has a 
tremendous effect right so it's not just 
did my mom attend to me from zero to 
five it's like what's your own DNA what 
was the environment like in your womb 
all of this stuff is crucial in thinking 
about so to some extent what we've been 
thinking about with our Pickers could be 
sort of oversimplified like the biology 
part has been greatly oversimplified yes 
and I'll and I'll talk I'll talk more 
I'll talk more about that in a bit 
because we tend 
to uh we tend to choose people um whom 
we can uh redo our initial I call it the 
original sin but what I mean by that is 
our initial trauma we try to work that 
out with our partners I'll talk about 
that in in a talk about it if you want 
right now go there that's so fascinating 
right so um take it away yeah okay cool 
uh let me let me actually first though 
because we are talking because you 
mentioned DNA let me clarify something 
about family constellations and it has 
to do with um epigenetics because 
essentially Bella what you what you 
tried to express is that our ancestors 
I'm I'm giving it different language our 
ancestors uh impact our relationships 
and they impact uh how we can love in 
our relationship and so I want to 
briefly talk about epigenetics right 
because this work is tied to epigenetics 
and my research is tied to epigenetics 
Define epigenetics for people that don't 
know what that is for sure okay so 
simply put um epigenetics is a study of 
how our environment can modif ify our 
gene 
expression and cause changes to the ways 
in which our genes work across 
Generations um so as an 
example with my with my eldest child my 
daughter who's now 
19 I had 
um I had a deeply high-risk pregnancy 
with her and she she was in stress and 
so for the first three months she was 
literally starving um along with other 
things that were happening so I was 
under stress she was under stress and 
that impacts how she operates in the 
world and so my daughter 
um because she didn't eat for 3 months 
she doesn't know this um but she has um 
this particular relation ship with food 
which is tied to the fact that she was 
starving for 3 months right and so that 
so all of this plays into how she shows 
up in the 
world yeah so um I'll tell you a little 
bit about Dr Rachel Yehuda study because 
she is one of the most uh famous 
epigeneticist in this country and she 
has some groundbreaking research on 
children of Holocaust Survivors and 
pregnant women who survived the 911 
attacks in New York and so Dr Yehuda 
found genetic changes um that stem from 
the trauma um suffered by Holocaust and 
911 survivors and that these change gene 
expression was passed on to their 
children and so the offsprings were more 
prone to depression and anxiety compared 
to the general population and this 
informs secure Pure avoidant or anxious 
attachment Styles and my own research my 
current research it continues to 
demonstrate that our and I really want 
everyone to hear this our personal 
experiences are not merely individual 
and 
insular our experiences are embedded 
within our family system and our family 
system is entangled with National 
History so my family system is tied with 
the partition in the Indian subcontinent 
right and so so my anal connection my 
ancestral Connection in this world is 
historically tied to forced 
migration and 
immigration wow yeah and what this means 
is that how we show up in the world and 
how we engage in 
relationships is unconsciously informed 
formed by our family 
system across 
Generations 
wow wow amazing and and how this can 
affect your relationships not just with 
people but your mental health your 
anxieties your addictions your 
relationships to food your relationships 
to lots of vices right I mean it's it's 
a ounding yeah yeah yeah yeah um let me 
go back to your original question 
because we were talking about attachment 
Styles and uh how people choose partners 
and they're recreating the what I call 
the original sin um so so love I know 
this is going to sound weird but love 
and Trauma are intimately 
intertwined um I I argue that they're in 
an un happy romantic 
partnership and so um what I mean by 
this is that our personal and inherited 
traumas create a landscape or a 
blueprint for our ability to 
love and so family constellation work 
shows me that we attempt to get what we 
didn't get from our 
caregivers um and we are almost 
almost always drawn to someone who will 
reenact our childhood traumas for 
us and so um my vision is to uncover 
generational trauma that the person 
recreates through attachment Styles and 
whom they tend to 
romantically gravitate to so give us 
some classic examples around this sure 
sure sure sure so um okay so let me say 
this 
90% 90% of what's going on in a 
relationship is baggage that we are 
bringing in from our family of origin 
and our ancestral lineage and so the 
work that I do is to help folks identify 
the baggage and areas of codependency 
that's what I find right and I'm trying 
to assess what the person is trying to 
recreate in an intimate relationship to 
have their 
unresolved needs 
met and 
so we bring into our 
relationship how we were 
encouraged or discouraged to show up in 
the world and and there is a common 
dynamic right so this is the example 
there's a common Dynamic that informs 
distressed relationships and it's it's 
explained by something called the 
Cartman drama triangle so there are 
three positionalities in a relationship 
most often there's The Rescuer which is 
you know let me fix it for you right 
this person needs to be needed this is 
me by the way I'm The 
Rescuer same yeah I'm The Rescuer then 
there's the persecutor and the 
persecutor is it's all your fault right 
angry 
controlling and then there's the victim 
the poor me the helpless 
powerless not 
responsible but here's the 
thing we don't just take one of these 
positions we rotate these positions in 
our relationship right we we both do in 
the relationship and we rotate a 
according to what we feel our needs are 
at that moment sure so this is the 
reason why I look for that core negative 
image right I'm not lovable right no one 
will love me I'm not deserving of love 
this is like the most common 
stuff and what I'm trying to what I'm 
trying to argue is that people who 
believe they are unlovable as an example 
they will attract people who will 
confirm that 
yeah right right right so I ask couples 
ask couples and act and and and people 
who are interested in I I work with a 
lot of folk who are like I can't find my 
person I can't be in a relationship I 
you know what's going on why can't I 
find someone and so I ask folks to 
become deeply curious 
about how much is from wounded childhood 
and generational inherited trauma 
versus what their partner is doing or 
what their past partners have done and 
the reason I do this is because my goal 
is to end the projections because the 
the Cartman triangle it's a projection 
those three positionalities are 
projections and what I want to do is 
create differentiation 
right differentiation within 
relationships it's a different way I 
want to show people or what I try to do 
is show people a different way um of 
operating in the world so so basically 
getting rid of the old operating system 
and inserting a new operating 
system and you can do 
that I can do that but let me let me 
rephrase that um 
versus saying I can do that I can help 
facilitate that because the 
work is not mine right I'm not here to 
heal you yeah I'm here to provide a 
space where you can do the work and I 
will facilitate it yeah I don't claim to 
know look Bella I don't claim to know 
anything you know I can help take those 
pieces 
and put together a landscape so that you 
can see in front of you what it is and 
where you want to 
go right right right and you give people 
better tools so that they can you know 
shift out of the drama triangle into a 
healthier role yeah that's exactly right 
the question is you know how do you want 
to show up in the world now now that you 
know all of this yeah how do you want to 
show up now and it's okay if you don't 
want to show up differently it's not 
good or bad each choice has particular 
consequences and 
results but instead of Behaving from 
autopilot and auto programming when you 
ask your patient or you I ask myself 
let's say if I was your patient how do I 
want to show up right now that's 
conscious yeah instead of becoming the 
victim or the persec computer or The 
Rescuer it's like how do I want to be 
right now how does Bella want to be okay 
she wants to be The Rescuer or does she 
want to turn into the coach instead of 
The 
Rescuer right right and I want to fix it 
for my kids but then there are times 
where I'm like I have to teach you to be 
a competent independent adult like how 
are you going to fix that how can I help 
you yeah versus just doing it so going 
from rescuer to coach right right and so 
just putting more words to or framing it 
it's being intentional and deliberate 
you said conscious that's exactly right 
being intentional the work that I do is 
intent is to be 
intentional and deliberate about the 
choices that we are making um and how 
we're showing up in 
situations that are relational in 
nature and what I love is that you have 
people think Beyond mom and dad you know 
it's like for me like I can think about 
gosh most of my grandparents are pasted 
at this point but what were they going 
through what did they go through and if 
you don't have three generations you 
know back for me it's like you can you 
do the best that you can with the 
information that you have right and so 
what like let's say someone comes to you 
and says okay my my grandparents were 
Holocaust Survivors right and my mom's a 
little nutty and neurotic maybe behaves 
narcissistically or unpredictably and I 
continue to pick the wrong people like 
that could be something you know and if 
you're not a holocaust Survivor you 
could be survivors of the Great 
Depression you could be like my parents 
and have immigrated or your parents that 
were partitioned there is so much trauma 
in the world but it's really naming it 
and being aware of it and then looking 
at the impact that it has on you and 
that's something that you help people to 
do right you would have me Define all of 
the things that my people have gone 
through and then you're like well here's 
your stuff and here's how you might show 
up is that how you want to show up and 
I'll probably be like no you're like 
well here's how you could show up 
instead am I getting it right no you're 
totally getting it right and I love the 
way you described it you know because 
you're like here here's my stuff and so 
the way that I think about it is you 
know it's this huge napsack that you're 
carrying and it gets heavier with each 
generation and so you you know you you 
can't stand up straight anymore because 
the napsack is too heavy yeah so my work 
is let's get everything out of the 
napsack and see what it 
is that's so interesting that's so 
interesting it's funny this is a 
personal side note for you dear 
listeners i h I'm super 
claustrophobic and I had to get an MRI 
for my spine and I've tried a closed MRI 
and an Open MRI cannot go in the tube I 
just walk out of the facility I as my 
son says I'm an MRI failure my mother 
has the same strange fear the first time 
she went into an MRI tube she explod she 
sobed like someone was killing her and I 
was as we were talking about this 
constellation therapy this was a 
conversation my mom and I had like why 
do we both have this irational fear and 
my brother doesn't he just told me I got 
a full body MRI today I was like I'm 
kind of jealous but I you they're like 
we can give you Xanax for that I'm like 
you don't know my brain Xanax I like 
you'd have to put me under General 
freaking anesthesia to get me in that 
tube and I don't know why but this is 
the kind of stuff I'm guessing that you 
can TR back back to something yes yes 
and I I can for a moment speak to 
claustrophobia because I have a similar 
situation speak to it the MRIs are like 
no [ __ ] my personal therapy session 
you so um part of for my family 
consolation is that you know my my 
grandmother during one of the partitions 
of the Indian subcontinent had to go 
into hiding and was in a very small 
space wow and so this was passed down 
through my mother and then it was pass 
down to me and in fact if you look if 
you think about um being in the womb and 
if you think about um multiple 
Generations living in one body because 
when my grandmother is pregnant with my 
mother and my mother is about four or 5 
months old in in utero she's produced 
the egg that is going to be me one day 
so in in effect there's three 
generations living in one body in one 
moment and so all of the stress that my 
grandmother experiences from 
partition right is encoded in my mom's 
DNA which is then encoded in the egg 
that is going to become me this is 
epigenetics holy crud like my mind is 
blown at this I can't I can't close like 
I can't close the doors to bathrooms 
either like I I just like I I don't 
close the doors to my bedrooms I I don't 
close any doors I can't I can't handle 
it I feel like I'm going to stop 
breathing oh my God literally and my 
kids know it they laugh at me they're 
like you're so crazy and they're fine 
and my brother's fine and my dad is fine 
and my mom I don't know like there's 
some and I was like I might just have to 
die and before I get an M because I'm 
not going in the tube are you the first 
are you the first daughter yes okay so 
first born first daughter so same here 
and so this it usually the first 
daughter takes on it there's a long 
history and theory behind this which I 
won't get into but just very briefly 
it's the first daughter that takes on a 
lot of the mom's trauma so my mom takes 
on my my grandmother's trauma I take on 
my mom's trauma as firstborn the 
firstborn daughters we get the biggest 
dose that's actually that's exactly what 
I'm saying we we get the biggest dose 
great no wonder so my brother escaped 
the scourge of claustrophobia CU I took 
it all from my 
mom I know like we're being funny about 
this and you know but this is this this 
is exactly it wow and and so much of the 
way that we show up in relationships can 
be something that's you know epigenetic 
right I mean it doesn't just have to be 
my mom did this my dad did this so it's 
really this is such a a a broader way to 
think about who we are in the world and 
how we show up in romantic relationship 
so what tell me you 
know what advice like if you had someone 
in your office that was having trouble 
with their picker finding love like are 
there some things that you can give you 
know our dear listeners at home that 
they can start to think about that they 
can start to 
do yeah absolutely 
um I ask most most people who come to 
see me I ask them to deeply s in sit in 
a space and think about and this might 
also sound weird but I have people think 
about love and what they think love is 
what demonstrates love um in essence I I 
work to have folks OPP operationalize 
love for themselves right and so I use 
this as a pinpoint to start thinking 
help them think through what it is that 
they think they need from others and 
then connect that to um why they why 
they think they need that so so for me 
for example um my history of 
understanding love is that someone needs 
needs to uh take care of everything for 
me that demonstrates love right so my 
understanding of of Love is most 
definitely informed by codependency take 
care of me because I can't take care of 
myself and 
so this is actually in my therapeutic 
practice the million dooll question 
right what what what is love and I think 
over the years I've come to have a 
different understanding and love of love 
and so I follow um I follow a 
psychiatrist Dr M scottc guidance on how 
I want to understand love and I help my 
patients get to this point yeah right I 
love him so you you're familiar with his 
1978 book um the roadless track 
right it was a college Bible for me my 
mom says it revolutionized her world as 
well yeah absolutely and so this this 
book like I have multiple copies of this 
book like in my office so that you know 
so that I can have people like look 
through it and so is it okay if I talk a 
little bit about how um how PEC defines 
love 100% And I want you to take some 
notes my sweet listener right now 
because this is some big [ __ ] that's 
coming so you you first of all you all 
need to get The Road Less Traveled right 
this is exactly as Bella said it is the 
Bible of love and so so pre actually 
borrows from Eric FR who's a German 
social psychologist to um understand 
what love is and I love this definition 
of love it's the 
will the will to extend one's self right 
the will to extend 
oneself for the purpose of nurturing 
one's 
own or another's spiritual growth 
there's a couple of key words here 
will 
extension and nurturing 
oneself or nurturing another's spiritual 
growth and the reason that I adore I 
completely adore this conceptualization 
of love because it Honors that love is a 
choice versus how we understand it as an 
instinct right so I love that love is a 
choice versus an instinct and peek in 
fact writes love is an act of will I 
love this love is an act of Will and he 
says that it's both an 
intention and an 
action and what I think is brilliant is 
that we don't have to love we choose to 
love love is a decision yes love is a 
decision right it's a verb it's not a 
feeling right right that's exactly what 
he says right and so that's exactly what 
he says and exctly I remember being in 
college going oh my God my entire 
landscape shifted because wait it's not 
a feeling I thought that's what I've 
been told my whole life it's a feeling 
do you feel like you're in love and 
that's where I'm like this is all 
nonsense these butterflies this wanting 
to be swept off my feet I land on my 
back every time I get swept off my feet 
it never ends well so I'm 
choosing to do something that's good for 
him or good for myself but it's an 
action and a decision it's not a feeling 
because I can say I love you but still 
be a jerk that's not love yeah yeah this 
is this is exactly right and so these 
statements like I've fallen in love or 
I'm falling in love I'm 
like do you fall do you want to be fall 
falling right so there's some so there's 
something that we need to to to rethink 
here and so you know when I hear these 
statements I'm falling in love or I've 
fallen in love 
um for me I think about love as okay so 
here's how so that that was Peck and 
from so H how do I Define love in my 
words how does Rock bad Define love 
exactly so for me love is an 
intentional and deliberate practice of 
showing up in the 
world fully and I want to operationalize 
fully what I mean by fully 
is to me love is developing a capacity 
okay developing a capacity to show up in 
our lives to engage in you know the good 
bad and ugly with 
Fidelity versus recoiling into passivity 
and disconnection 
where there's no room to move deeper 
into one's life beyond the standard you 
know bitterness anger resentment and of 
course Nar and narcissism right so this 
is what I mean by living Our Lives fully 
love is about living Our Lives fully 
okay love is about living Our Lives 
fully to be willing to step into the 
world and offer our yourselves without 
fear and create interactions that are 
authentically supportive and nourishing 
even if that intersection interaction is 
for one one minute versus 55 
years exactly because you've 
decided to have that interaction which 
could be with you know a a homeless 
person on the street or or your mother 
of 55 
years yeah that's that's exactly right 
and I'm actually glad you brought up the 
the example of a person who's 
experiencing homelessness because here's 
what we most often do and this is 
especially true in New York um we don't 
want to make eye 
contact and I'm saying that we don't 
need to offer money we don't need to 
offer food 
we can make a 5-second connection 
through eye contact to 
acknowledge that person's existence yes 
and that's an act of Love 100% you will 
never right if somebody looks dangerous 
nobody's saying make eye contact with 
someone that looks like they're strung 
out and could hurt you but if someone's 
sitting on a corner they're human right 
and you can look at them and you can 
smile and Nod and keep walking on your 
way and a lot of times and I do that as 
practice and they'll say thanks for the 
smile right it's like most people will 
just walk past and and again I'm not 
suggesting you do this I'm just saying 
how do you show up what does that mean 
to you in that moment how do you choose 
to love do you love yourself are you 
loving someone else but love is an 
action it's not a feeling what do you do 
for someone else that's right that's be 
that's beautiful and for ourselves which 
you already said for ourselves yeah 
right because if I want to do good 
people sometimes argue isn't it selfish 
because you're reaping benefit out of 
when you do something good for somebody 
else you're like oh I feel like a good 
person but that's 
selflove that's selflove it's not 
selfish right it comes into definition 
of Love yeah no this is exactly right 
and I'm glad you you youve brought this 
to the Forefront because I also want to 
dellink um 
our our contemporary Notions of 
self-love which is tied to like I don't 
know go go do yoga go to spa and you 
know get 
yeah exactly yeah that's not that's 
that's self care it's not self love yeah 
right take care of yourself get get 
eight hours of sleep but that's not 
self-love that's self- care yeah right 
taking a shower is 
self-care yeah that's exactly right self 
self- love to me right is about making a 
choice and if the the choice is you 
don't make it it's about about making a 
choice to show up with honor with 
dignity and respect and it's not a 
one-time thing we need to make this 
Choice over and over again and then 
there will be times where we can't I 
have I have fallen down on my knees and 
be like please don't leave please don't 
or please forgive me I I've done all of 
that we all have we've all been there 
okay we've all been there on our knees 
and all right today I didn't an act with 
dignity but tomorrow I'll make the 
choice or maybe the next day exactly 
well and speaking of that tell me you 
know we've talked about love what is 
trauma okay and what is the relationship 
between romantic love and Trauma let's 
kind of circle back to why we pick 
people that don't always serve us like 
talk about love and Trauma sure okay so 
I this question about you know this 
question you know what is trauma I 
actually think this is like the golden 
the Golden question of the day and the 
reason I think this is the golden 
question of the day is because I find 
the word trauma is 
overused and in a way that is loose such 
that it becomes devoid of meaning and so 
and I think this is particularly true in 
the context of coid you know we 
we've lost a meaningful 
conceptualization of trauma like like 
everyone admits trauma and we use the 
word trauma in a sloppy way that it can 
mean almost nothing or absolutely 
everything and so here's the question I 
mean I will respond to it but the 
question that I want all all of us to 
think about is you know how might we 
think about trauma or like how should we 
think about trauma so so I'm inviting 
all of us to take a deliberate and 
intentional journey to understand what 
trauma might 
mean and so as a social scientist I've 
got that standard definition of trauma 
right to to me as a social scientist 
trauma means an internal response right 
to overwhelming 
pain grief hurt scare I talk about it in 
terms of ir reparable heartbreak right 
it's an internal response to irreparable 
heartbreak um a a a horrific experience 
that can't be processed in the 
now but I have another dimension that I 
add to it it can also be that it's not 
it can't be processed um now um and or 
over time across a single lifespan and 
or across Generations so the trauma 
doesn't have to be ours personally it 
could belong to my grandmother right so 
that's like one level to understand 
trauma I'd like I'd like to bring in um 
my role as an 
Interfaith and crosscultural Scholar 
who's committed to indigenous 
epistemology and Indigenous psychology 
to uh expand our understanding of trauma 
and so here's the expansion part I would 
love for us to include in trauma what is 
known as susto and the direct 
translation of susto from Spanish to 
English is 
scare and so the way that I work with 
trauma or understand trauma is I 
combine modern Psychotherapy with 
indigenous mental health healing 
practices and I see trauma As A 
disruption to our soul so I Define 
trauma As A disruption to our soul which 
uh in indigenous communities a variety 
of indigenous communities it's known as 
Soul fright or Soul loss from you know a 
sudden shock or startling experience 
that 
interrupts our Vital substance or life 
force which is often known like asqi or 
you know Prana 
and 
so so for me trauma is a disruption to 
the soul which could happen at the 
personal level but trauma is also 
generational so I really want us to 
think about trauma 
collectively we have our own and 
everybody's before us yes exactly and 
the historical moment of which we are 
which we are products of right so you 
know our children your your your your 
children and my children their uh their 
youth is a product of the pandemic right 
so this is this needs to be included in 
uh understanding trauma as 
generational and so the way that I would 
invite all of you to think about a 
generational trauma is that we are born 
into a 
world that 
imprinted with pain right imprinted with 
grief hurt scare heartbreak and horror 
so we are we we are born into a cultural 
Dimension that is 
imprinted with grief and so that informs 
our trauma our personal trauma is 
informed by our generational 
trauma right and it can even be right it 
can be independent of it but it's it's 
certainly like you can have things that 
happen to you because they happen to you 
and they suck and it's not because of 
anything that your ancestors experience 
it's like this just happened to me and 
it's freaking sucked I got cancer or I 
lost a baby or whatever that is which 
you know is just and now my children and 
their children will feel 
that that's absolutely right and yes 
there are many there are many forms of 
trauma that are um individual to us um 
at the same time I'd like to temper that 
because what family constellation has 
taught me is our individual 
traumas um are also informed by 
something that has happened in the past 
in our in our Generations in our past 
Generations right because we might be 
more susceptible to certain things we 
might behave in a certain way way based 
on what we're carrying already yes and 
we may be called oh you're so sensitive 
it's like but I might not be maybe or 
maybe I am sensitive because I'm 
carrying around a lot of 
intergenerational stuff with me yes yes 
and this all this stuff that you're 
talking about informs our attachments 
style which then informs how we are 
unconsciously choosing to show up in our 
relationships wow isn't that amazing and 
how we choose people to your point that 
reenact the original sin so meaning 
either I'm going to put words in your 
mouth and you can correct me either a 
dysfunctional relationship with one of 
our caregivers our mom or our dad or 
maybe even early relationship 
that no this is exactly right so it can 
stem from the womb and mo most likely it 
stems from the womb but it can also be 
it can also be something as simple as 
you were separated from your mom in the 
hospital because you were sick as soon 
as you were born and so your mom didn't 
get to hold you for the first couple of 
hours that is a break in the bond and 
that informs our attachment style so I 
so my attachment Style 
my mother had uh a very traumatic 
pregnancy with me I was a twin um and 
the my twin didn't survive and so my 
attachment style is very anxious when is 
this person Gonna Leave me when is this 
person Gonna Leave Me Hold on don't go 
don't go don't go that's that's my 
attachment style 
totally I hear you I I didn't even have 
a twin and I feel that way so so I can 
only imagine how right you had someone 
else in the womb with you potentially if 
it was an idal twin exactly 
exactly and so my twin left my twin left 
so to your point my twin left so with my 
partners my my my emmo has always been 
if you love me you will do everything 
for me otherwise you don't love me yeah 
right right 
isn't that so interesting and I love 
sitting down and really thinking what 
does love mean to me and sometimes 
people like to use the five love 
languages use that as a primer right but 
think about what makes me feel loved by 
a romantic 
partner yeah long term not right away 
and it probably maybe it has to do with 
flowers maybe it doesn't but really 
sitting there and thinking about what 
that safe secure love feels like and for 
a lot of us listening I know you've 
never felt that safe secure love you 
don't even know what that feels like 
yeah and there in comes the recreation 
of trauma yeah no this is this is 
exactly right and I I'll say this for 
myself because I don't want to speak for 
others 
um for me so I'm I'm almost 50 like I'm 
pushing 50 and so in these decades these 
past decades the question that I really 
needed to ask myself 
is what I expect from my 
partners am I able to give that to 
myself most of the time the answer was 
no it wasn't until 
recently that everything that I expected 
from my partner that I could say well 
you know what I can offer this to my 
myself because it's from there that I 
can form a safe connection with my 
partner because you can give it to 
yourself so you don't fear it being 
taken away from you precisely brilliant 
that's exactly what I'm saying amazing 
amazing and so really sitting with 
yourself right and what's an exercise we 
can do to this just sit with that and 
what's a question to ask for now to to 
sit with that right a much of this work 
I'm not I'm not arguing that there 
aren't techniques and theories and 
methods involved but much of this work 
does rely on us 
acknowledging what is and being able to 
engage with that with Fidelity right 
honoring the good and honoring the bad 
and honoring the ugly so part of this 
work a large part of this work is 
acknowledging what is yeah and I'm not 
trying to glorify Med you know sit in 
meditation on a mountain kind of thing 
that's not what I'm trying to argue uh 
but acknowledgement is the first step to 
see to see the truth of what 
is versus 
projecting it's so interesting you know 
I think I sometimes I have women that 
will come in and say well I need to 
marry or I need to find someone who 
makes at least this much money and has 
you know a PhD and an MD and you know 
and I'm I'm just talking about women for 
ex for a moment that are looking for men 
and there are times that this has become 
such a preoccupying issue and it's 
caused us to screen so many people out 
that I have said to them 
before you have an obsession with 
degrees or intelligence is there 
something inside of you that doesn't 
feel smart 
enough maybe you need to go back to 
school so so here's here's what I'll say 
to that so true or 
false yes and no okay yes and no so let 
me so let me respond to that so on a 
surface level right wanting you know X Y 
and Z completely okay that's their 
preference yeah but what I love about 
what I love about what you said is that 
you are interrogating them to think 
about their intentions and be 
deliberate so it's okay to have those 
preferences it's more important to 
understand why you have those 
preferences right to be intentional and 
deliberate and from there then you can 
make an informed choice about whether 
this is something that you want to stick 
with it's something that you can loosen 
up on what what Gap are you which is 
what you're I think arguing what Gap are 
you trying trying to 
fulfill having these 
requirements exactly like is there 
something inside of yourself because 
you're dating all these smart people 
like I don't understand yeah right and 
so um and so these conversations have 
really helped people to go okay what am 
I looking for and why why is this 
important to me is this something that I 
want to become but I haven't been able 
to do that so if I find it date it and 
marry it then that makes me successful 
if I don't feel successful enough but if 
I marry someone super successful or if I 
don't feel like I'm pretty enough but I 
marry someone that's really good-look 
then that must mean that I am good-look 
too and so it's like we reach around the 
back of our head to grab our ear instead 
of looking at what is yeah this is no 
this is exactly right and so I think 
here's what I think Bella that you are 
putting on the table for us and there's 
and it's two variables that I actually 
wanted to speak to and you've kind of 
just great made a great platform for it 
it's really vital like with this example 
that you gave it's really vital that we 
understand how we connect to people and 
how we communicate with others and why 
so to understand you know these 
requirements right this is the this is 
the platform of connection this is one 
of the platform of connection to really 
understand how we're connecting and why 
we're connecting in this way because 
connection con connectivity and 
communication are the two Central 
variables in in in our relationship with 
ourselves and to the outer 
World totally to I love this um you know 
what this you know this example that you 
gave 
I love this example because this is kind 
maybe it's a side note I don't know but 
I think it might be important um it 
reminds me of Thomas Hubble who's a 
spiritual author it reminds me how he 
defines trauma he talks about trauma 
trauma is 
inflicted by inappropriate 
relationships right right because you 
talking you you were kind you were 
arguing okay well is this appropriate or 
inappropriate 
right why don't you check yourself it's 
kind of what you're arguing totally 
right so I love this that huil argued 
that trauma is inflicted um by 
inappropriate relationships and I'm 
bringing this up because the mental 
mental health research and Indigenous 
psychology they teach us that we are 
forged through relationships and 
relationships are managed through 
stories so what story are we telling 
about ourselves 
and what EXA and to ourselves and to 
ourselves yeah yeah 
exactly brilliant I love 
it and 
um what do you think I mean you know 
it's one of the things I was thinking 
about it's so important for you dear 
single listener to really think deeply 
about this right like this was a 
freaking episode right like back and go 
wow it's not just my stuff it's like my 
parents my grandparents my siblings wow 
like how do who am I right how do I show 
up what do I need what does love feel 
like to me and then looking at what do I 
need from someone and what I love about 
what you said which one of those needs 
could I provide for myself holy cow like 
wow and what that does is that is the 
definition of selflove what do what have 
I been sitting here stewing about 
needing from someone else why can't I 
give it to myself what is that right 
yeah my mom to me we came into this 
world alone and we die 
alone yeah my mom my mom says the same 
thing but I'm like but wait you were 
there you were there m right right right 
like we go right we go like and so it's 
really interesting to really think 
deeply about who you are what traumas 
could have what trauma right your your 
inappropriate relationships with 
whatever that is in your background how 
are those playing out in your 
connections to other people and maybe 
it's not just romantic relationships 
maybe it's even with friends with 
siblings at work 
like at work is a big deal it's a really 
big deal right how do you deal with 
suppliers with service providers right 
with children with people you have power 
over think about do you show up 
differently in different situations and 
why and sit in that and I think that 
just knowing that if your picker's 
broken there's a lot more reasons than 
we ultimately entered this conversation 
it's not just Mom and Dad but it's lots 
of people before us as well as well as 
historically what's been happening as 
well that there's a fingerprint of that 
generationally so what a fascinating 
amazing conversation is there any last 
gems that you want to drop on our 
listeners yeah I think I'll wrap this up 
um before the wrap up though may may I 
Bella just uh maybe read re Orient I 
understand what you're saying about the 
Picker being broken may I reorient the 
language a little bit on that you may 
okay I would argue our Pickers are 
imprinted by those who came before us so 
I wouldn't necessarily argue um our 
Pickers are broken I don't I don't come 
from the platform of that we are broken 
I come from the platform that we are 
imprinted and how we behave and operate 
and make choices are 
imprinted uh by those who are 
standing behind us I work with a lot of 
women um and we end up because of the 
roles that our mothers have taken their 
you know our grandmothers have taken our 
great-grandmothers have taken we we end 
up uh with an imprint of being the 
caretaker and to be quite 
honest I don't like taking care of 
anyone but I feel this need to control 
and manage and caretake 
everyone even my colleagues at work like 
I run my department like that too 
because I'm imprinted with this does 
that my radar is imprinted with that 
right that even if you don't like it you 
don't enjoy it you have to to control it 
for the outcome that you want yeah 
that's that's no that's exactly right 
and then how do you connect with and 
show up with people that this is a whole 
episode two just on Dr Rock 
bad all right so let me I guess let me 
say some final 
um say some final words here so I don't 
want to give the impression that I'm 
here to save people right I'm not here 
to save people through you know the 
theories and techniques that I use as 
like the expert um I see my job as 
listening with all my senses to the 
story that is unfolding and how you know 
how the person is making sense of their 
experiences and so I see my job as 
helping to uncover Free Will agency and 
and and choice and 
I really ask two questions right when 
will you be ready to release old 
relationship patterns that are no longer 
serving you and then the second question 
is when will you be ready to be filled 
with the light of a new relationship 
pattern you know a new 
vibration and here's why I think this 
work is really important and it has 
nothing to do whether you're a parent or 
not or whether you want children or not 
um I do this work because I believe we 
have a responsibility to our youth and I 
think Bella you were alluding to this 
too and my world orientation is that 
it's imperative that we leave this world 
a better place than how we entered it 
versus compromising the lives of our 
children before like even before they 
arrive or other folks children just 
children in general right the youth in 
general and so I would say for those of 
us who in ending you know those of us 
who are searching for our romantic 
Partners I'm inviting all of you to 
think 
about to become aware of all 
possibilities of 
transformation like in each moment of 
Our Own own creation right I'll end 
there to think about all the 
possibilities of transformation in each 
moment of our own creation because it's 
not just about us it's about the imprint 
that we are going to leave behind right 
100% so knowing you're imprinted but you 
have agency as well to love to choose to 
act to take care of another or to take 
care of yourself the imprint has agency 
hashtag I think we should make t-shirts 
I love I love that yeah thank you this 
was yes yes yes yes to all of it oh 
thank you so much this was so super 
profound I I feel like I have a lot of 
thinking to do and I'm sure everybody 
listening also it's like think about 
think about who you are and where you've 
come from and how you come to the world 
super interesting so um well thank you 
so much for this awesome conversation 
and smart daters until next week I will 
have you think about all of these 
profound questions that we threw out 
there I hope you enjoyed this episode if 
you did and you're ready to finally make 
a change in your dating life and fix 
your imprinted 
picker go to Smart dating academy.com 
and set up a 
consultation Big Love and we'll see you 
next 
week 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I am so excited to have a dear 
friend and an incredible resource for 
all of you so make sure you've got your 
notebooks and your pens or your iPhones 
out to take notes today 
I am delighted to have Wendy Sterling 
here with us she is a divorced women's 
empowerment and 
healer okay that was great Wendy correct 
the title for me you are a divorced 
woman's 
goddess I'll take 
that um I am a divorced women's 
empowerment coach and healer oh my gosh 
all right just call me a goddess I mean 
I'm in so she the goddess Wendy but no 
with all seriousness um she is not only 
when I met her she was a divorce coach 
and a Healer and now she's an 
empowerment coach and healer and I can 
tell you she's doing amazing work and 
Wendy and I have been friends for a 
couple of years through our friend Susan 
Guthrie I think Susan introduced us love 
Susan who's the host of the divorce and 
Beyond podcast and um Wendy has just 
written a book which I got and it's 
called divorce sucks now what and I was 
like holy moly I need to have Wendy on 
this podcast right away to share her 
story with you even though we've known 
each other I didn't know all of the 
depths and how incredibly relevant her 
story is and Wendy even did one of are 
online dating love labs and spoiler 
alert will come back to that later so 
Wendy thank you for being with us oh my 
goodness thank you for having me and 
what an introduction I adore you and I'm 
grateful to be here to share some wisdom 
with your listeners today well tell us 
your 
story well where we're jumping right in 
I'm in you know me let's go I know let's 
go so I will never forget the night that 
uh my ex-husband and I were driving home 
from a couple's night out and that night 
was about six and a half years ago and 
his phone didn't ring once it rang five 
times and it was a female colleague of 
his who 
was calling him very late at night and 
while I knew that they were friends that 
moment in the car I knew that there was 
way more going on than just a friendship 
and while none of us get married 
thinking that plan B is ever something 
we're going to Embark upon 
that night really informed me that that 
was the new road that I was heading down 
and more importantly what it taught me 
was that I had lost myself I fell asleep 
at the wheel of my marriage and that 
night man did I get woken up um I really 
it was like the the 15 years of our 
marriage just flashed in front of my 
face going how did I miss this and you 
know while he denied until he couldn't 
you know anymore until I found the 
evidence uh what was the evidence tell 
us about this moment because we were 
just backstage chatting about something 
about this 
moment we were so the evidence was found 
um on an iPad that was left on the 
nightstand and the evidence came in the 
form of uh you know emails that just 
conveniently didn't get deleted and so 
it was very evident to me that the man 
that I thought I was married to was not 
the person that I called my best friend 
and my husband and so I really took uh 
you know about a year to really figure 
out what it was that I wanted you know 
we had we have two boys at the time they 
were seven and 10 and you know if we 
didn't have kids it would have been an 
easy get out I'm done we're divorcing 
but when you have kids there's a little 
bit more of a thought process that is 
involved in in that a little just just a 
smidge and so what I decided to do was 
to really use that time to uh find 
myself I really you know it's funny I 
knew who I was in corporate I had built 
a 20 plus year corporate career in you 
know the digital ad space and was you 
know one of the leaders out here on the 
West Coast Building multi-million dollar 
regions and I was confident and I knew 
who I was at work but yet for some 
reason when I got home all of that just 
completely disappeared and I was in 
therapy we were actually in couples's 
therapy clearly neither of us were 
really being honest with one another or 
even with ourselves around where it was 
that we were and I knew that I needed 
something more I felt very stuck I was 
reading you know I was reading all these 
B books listening to all these podcasts 
and while I was learning a lot of 
information I had no idea how to then 
okay well what do I do how does this 
apply to my life right right right 
knowledge is one thing right and 
execution is wholly 
another yes execution with 
accountability which I was really bad at 
so I would make up excuses just like 
most of us do and so I knew that I 
needed something more and of course the 
universe hands us what we need when we 
ask for it 
and that came to me in the form of a 
Facebook post from a friend who became a 
life coach and I thought what the heck 
is a coach and so we set up a call and 
three hours later not only had I hired a 
friend to uh to help coach me through 
this next phase of my life but I also 
decided to sign up to become a coach 
because I go bigger I go home I thought 
well if I become a coach and hire a 
coach I'll be through this real fast 
right and what I ended up experiencing 
was that in the course of just a 3-day 
weekend I had moved through more 
emotions around my divorce than I had 
the entire eight months before in 
therapy and so I knew that there was 
something really special to this and I 
had the you know the foresight to 
journal my experience and how it was 
that I was applying what I was learning 
in being a coach to how I was applying 
that to the emotional roller poster that 
I was on because of my divorce and so 
where that got me was to a place where I 
was able to stand in my power and to uh 
confront my ex-husband about a year 
later in our couple's therapist office 
to say okay what do you want where are 
we at like what where's your head at and 
him saying I don't really know and me 
looking him dead in the eye and saying 
well I do and I'm done and I want a 
divorce and I walked out of the office 
it was somewhat of an out-of- body 
experience because I almost had no idea 
what had just 
happened and it was when I got to my car 
and looked in the mirror and went oh my 
God what did I just do wow and so it was 
one of those like yes and then oh can I 
swear of course okay and then it was oh 
 oh oh my God my 
kids what oh my God what did I just do 
what did I just do what did I just do 
and it was a mix of fear excitement 
adrenaline and 
just certainty you know it was just like 
this cocktail that I had never 
experienced before and to top things off 
and as you know in my book because I 
share this as well that was in the 
morning and a few hours later I received 
a call from my dad telling me that my 
mom was rushed to the hospital and they 
eventually told us that they had 
discovered ovarian cancer and so 
literally within a 5H hour stretch of 
one day I essentially was losing the two 
people who truly were like the 
foundations for yes my 
rocks and so my journey 
really then began in a whole other way 
that I never expected um and it was one 
that enabled me to not only stand in the 
power of my voice but to 
also create this amazing business of 
mine that I have created for myself as 
an entrepreneur and it has also it also 
enabled me to really be present for my 
mom through a a very rough four and a 
half years of her cancer battle and you 
know ultimately unfortunately she passed 
away last 
January sorry thank you you you know I 
talk a lot about in the book how she and 
I were really walking this parallel 
journey together around how you know we 
were both very much in our pity parties 
and then at one point we both kind of 
had this you know this come to Jesus 
moment 
of we we got to shift our mindset 
because our mindset is everything in 
this and if we shift our mindset then we 
can shift the trajectory of both of our 
pasts and so my mom and I really I she 
taught me how to live and I taught her 
how to fight and so together we were 
walking in this journey um and I refer 
to it as almost like a metamorphosis for 
both of us where on the other side I 
emerged at as a butterfly to soar as did 
my mom but her soaring is taking place 
angelically and she's really in a place 
where I feel her every single day and I 
know that she's here supporting me on my 
journey and I you know I I wouldn't be 
standing here 
in you know the relationship that I'm in 
the business that I've created you know 
the relationship that I also have with 
my boys as their mom I have a great 
co-parenting relationship with my 
ex-husband who's remarried and you know 
it's it's really what has happened for 
me is possible for 
everybody 100% And I want to hit a few 
key points in your book because they so 
resonated with me talk 
about talk about knowing our worth let's 
go there and for people that are 
listening to this that may be in the 
dating World slogging it out like the 
you know the the the man in the boxing 
ring or somebody who's walking through 
divorce or somebody who's even lost 
their partner prematurely how do we how 
do we know our 
worth yeah you know if anybody listening 
is anyone you know can relate to this 
the same way that I you know how I 
related to it was my worth was seen 
through other people so from when I was 
a very young little girl you know I'm 
the granddaughter of Holocaust Survivors 
and so when my family came to this 
country it was all about fitting into 
America don't stand out be like 
everybody else and I was anything but 
that as a little girl I was very 
outspoken I was very tomboyish I was 
into everything I had an opinion about 
everything until that part of me got 
silenced because I was too much I was 
you know too loud I was too outspoken I 
was too this too that and so what I 
ended up developing was this behavior of 
really seeking from outside of me 
confirmation that oh I'm doing this 
right okay I'm I'm awesome now like I'm 
good right people like me and so it 
became this Behavior that I just grew up 
with brought into my adulthood and 
ultimately brought into my marriage so I 
lived into this identity of myself that 
everybody else saw so my worth was 
rested in other people's opinions of me 
um you know there were so many moments 
throughout that year that I was 
separated where it just hit me like a 
ton of bricks where you know it was like 
even just filling out a dating profile 
it was like I don't even I don't even 
know what what is good about me like 
who's going to want me I'm I'm in my 40s 
I'm divorced I have two kids you know 
and I'm an entrepreneur you know who's 
going to want me I'm old right has been 
and that was very much my mindset for 
quite some time and so the process by 
which I was able to gain back my sense 
of selfworth and a way that I really 
teach my clients is you know it starts 
with you first of all finding yourself 
again right not looking outside but you 
looking inside and seeing what it is 
that is important to you in this life 
and 
distinguishing what you know your truths 
are from you know our ego those inner 
critics those judgmental negative voices 
that are inside of our heads and to also 
love everything about us right there 
were parts of me in my marriage that I'm 
not proud of and it's something that 
I've worked really hard to own and to 
also vow like I'm never going to be that 
perversion of me again right like that's 
not to say that there are moments where 
you know she creeps out every now and 
then and I'm like oh wait like you know 
this is kind of coming out again I gotta 
you know evaluate exactly put her back 
yes put her back um and you know come at 
it a different way but really in order 
for you to know your worth you have to 
love everything about yourself including 
who you showed up as within your 
marriage marriage takes two people you 
get to Own 100% of your 50% and until 
you're able to do that that also means 
looking at the ugly stuff right looking 
at the parts of you that you're not 
necessarily as proud of and also to 
distinguish that you are not not your 
mistakes your 
mistakes your mistakes are how you learn 
it's how you grow it's how you do things 
differently and so a lot of what your 
worth plays 
into is really understanding what it is 
that is so incredible about you and not 
allowing other people to dim the way I 
describe it is don't let others dim your 
light you get to shine your your light 
regardless of how other people respond 
to it and it takes practice just like 
you know when you go to the gym and you 
pick up some new weights you're building 
that muscle and so building back your 
selfworth is a process very much like 
going to the gym and building muscle it 
just takes 
practice but most importantly it takes 
you learning how to love yourself and 
everything about 
you I love that and and you might be 
listening to this and saying well 
there's things I don't love about myself 
right and I think I'm sure Wendy you 
have those and I have those things about 
myself and this is where love can become 
compassion for yourself and sometimes we 
think oh I have to love the fact that I 
don't love my weight or I have to love 
this and gosh am I ready to date because 
I don't know that I love myself I'm like 
what you need to do is look at who you 
are and where you've been and have 
compassion for for the person who tried 
the compassion for the person who did 
bring her stuff or his stuff to the 
divorce yes we all contributed in so 
many ways right and and having 
compassion for yourself and saying I did 
the best I could with the information I 
had and the resources I had did I do the 
best I could and be compassionate to 
yourself like you would your best friend 
and until until you do that that's where 
we live and we can get so stuck 
sometimes so you don't have to love all 
the things that you've done especially 
if you've made mistakes but be able to 
say you know what I know I did that I 
would do things differently but that's 
part of my journey and move on 100% 100% 
and that's where holding yourself 
accountable right taking responsibility 
and holding yourself accountable is so 
incredibly important you know the 
compassion piece I'm so glad you brought 
that up I I I you know kind of tie it 
together with Grace right having Grace 
and compassion for yourself we're human 
beings we are not perfect we are making 
mistakes and sure did it suck that it 
took my divorce for me to learn all this 
stuff sure and at the same time it 
didn't suck because I'm the happiest 
I've ever been I know my ex-husband is I 
I believe when he says that he is happy 
you know my kids are happy my kids are 
thriving and so you know we're here to 
learn we're here to have 
experiences and the one thing that 
drives me crazy is when you know I talk 
with women and they allow their divorce 
or the failure of their marriage to 
Define who it is that they are or what 
is even possible for them down the road 
and it's not it's you know and and I'm 
not the only one standing here on the 
other side living my best life it 
there's so many of us that are there it 
just takes the courage to put one foot 
in front of the other and to have 
somebody guiding you who has got your 
back and is going to help you get there 
and to get there that much faster well 
and that comes back to something you 
said in the book which is so true it's 
knowing your worth and you are worth the 
invest investment in yourself where 
would you be if you didn't start were 
you if you didn't hire that life coach 
and I think in the book you're like yep 
I ran my credit card through it and I 
knew somehow I'd figure out how to pay 
for it but if we we think as women I 
have so much to say about this I'm 
like we we give and we nurture and we 
write checks for our kids to become 
Tennis Pros and learn how to code and la 
la la and blah blah blah and they go to 
these private schools and but what we 
don't think is what am I worth what is 
my growth worth and I am worth investing 
in and that's part of saying I am a 
human being who wants to get better and 
I don't want to be in the same place one 
year from now because what is the cost 
of that it's unquantifiable right think 
about that what's the cost of being in 
the same place a year from now do you 
want to be there I don't think you do my 
listener so think about if this 
resonates where do you need where do you 
want to level up in your life and know 
you are worth it four words P write them 
with red lipstick on your mirror I am 
worth it right and invest in yourself 
and this is part of kn KN your worth 
Wendy wouldn't have leveled up and 
gotten out and been able to use her 
voice in the therapist office that day 
looking at her husband and going oh my 
God I want a divorce four words where 
did you get that because you started to 
realize what you were worth and you 
weren't you didn't deserve someone who 
didn't know how freaking awesome you 
were you're the bees knes right you are 
the cats meow and if he didn't know that 
peace out brother yeah no 100% you know 
it's so funny because I walked into that 
office going if he says he wants to work 
on it I'm in I was ready to just throw 
it all away and it really was in that 
moment where he said I still need time 
and I thought to 
myself he's had a lot of time to see 
what a prize 
he has had and while I may not have 
shown up as my best 
self I knew how amazing I was and I was 
tired of being 
underappreciated and to be totally 
honest with 
you I I didn't feel like we were friends 
anymore like I would have I I was 
committed at that time because I knew I 
knew that I deserved better I deserved 
somebody who wanted to choose me and in 
that moment that looked like me me 
choosing me I chose myself in that 
office I had walked in praying he would 
choose but what is most important at the 
end of the day is you choosing yourself 
and I say that so many times to a lot of 
women especially women who are on the 
fence right the should I stay or should 
I go I don't know if I should get a 
divorce I don't know if I should this 
and all I ever say to them is well what 
if you just chose yourself and then 
figured out what does that version of 
you want is it the marriage you have is 
it the man that you are married to if 
he's doing work then is it the version 
that you're seeing him become but you 
have to choose yourself first no matter 
what because if you don't then how are 
you going to know what it feels like 
when somebody appreciates you or values 
you or sees your worth or is your 
biggest 
cheerleader exactly and I'm going to 
give you four powerful words around that 
I asked my clients this what do you 
want yep right not what's good for blah 
blah blah blah blah blah blah what do 
you want Wendy what do you want Bella 
what do you want dear listener right you 
know how many people can't answer that 
all of them which is why I'm saying when 
I ask people that question what do you 
want yeah they don't know they can tell 
me what they don't want I'm like that's 
I'm not looking to form the reciprocal 
of what you don't want to find what you 
want because that's not the answer what 
do you want and that means choosing 
yourself what do I want and if that 
makes it easier for you to go God what 
do I want and what you'll start to 
Rattle off what you don't want well I 
don't want this I don't want that no no 
what do you want and that's the start of 
you choosing what's good for you yep 
100% And we put ourselves 
L yes we will put a credit card down for 
our children if it's life or death or as 
you said you know the best school I mean 
I'm I'm looking at colleges we were just 
talking to I haven't even looked at 
Price tags yet but I'm like whatever he 
wants I and then when it comes to me I'm 
like oh how much money is in the big 
account can I really afford this the 
same level we don't afford ourselves the 
same level of Grace that we do for 
everybody else in our lives and what I 
have learned is that if I don't put 
myself first my kids suffer if I keep 
putting them first I suffer and I can't 
be here for my children right it's the 
oxygen mask on the airplane you know 
metaphor that everybody talks about but 
it's the god- honest truth if you don't 
put that oxygen ask on first how are you 
going to save your kids that's right 
100% 100% And and on this note we talk 
about accountability yes and you talk 
about looking at your own side of the 
street versus looking across the street 
and for 
you I can imagine it's my husband 
cheated on me and I discovered he was 
having an affair and and he blew my life 
up but you talk really eloquently about 
yes we can live in that mentality of 
looking at his shitty side of the street 
and what he did but talk about what it 
means to what it meant to you to look at 
your side of the street and how we 
should all think about our side of the 
street yeah you know this comes back to 
what I was saying before which is that 
it takes two people to get married right 
it takes two people to make a marriage 
work and you have to Own 100% of your 
50% I spent way too much time pointing 
the finger at him going you cheated you 
broke our vows you ruined our family you 
destroyed our lives you this you that 
right and sure he made those 
choices he gets to live with that not me 
I not me I am not the one that has to 
look in the mirror every day and know 
that that is a choice that I made but 
what I do have to look in the mirror and 
own and take responsibility for is how I 
showed up right through the marriage 
right correct how I showed up through 
the marriage I did not prioritize my 
marriage I prioritized my children and I 
prioritized our family but I did not 
prioritize our 
relationship I was a horrible 
Communicator I thought he was a mind 
reader and he knew me for 22 years why 
couldn't he read my mind after 22 years 
well because that's just not something 
humans 
do but I was I was convinced yeah yeah 
but I was convinced I'm like he should 
know me he should know this he should 
this he should that right instead of 
actually opening my mouth and saying 
this is what I need this is how I feel I 
would just ruminate and get mad that he 
didn't read my mind and then I would 
blow up at him I would pick fights 
because I didn't feel like I got 
attention well no wonder I didn't get 
attention because I pick fights with him 
all the time right and so all this stuff 
I had to look at myself and go oh my God 
I didn't talk I blamed him for 
everything that must feel pretty shitty 
and I think I pushed not I think I know 
I pushed him away I pushed my husband 
away wow and I pushed myself away at the 
same time but I pushed him away and am I 
sad and sorry absolutely and I have 
gotten to the point in my healing where 
a couple of years ago I apologized to 
him I 
apologized because I was a pretty not 
nice person to him and while I don't 
condone how he handled it I mean there 
were a lot of choices he could have made 
he he chose what he chose but until I 
was able to really go oh my God I can't 
do this again I have to I need to not do 
this again so what am I willing to learn 
well I need to learn how to communicate 
I need language I didn't know I had like 
four adjectives to describe my feelings 
and they were typically like happy angry 
sad and frustrated right I didn't have 
this plethora of words at my disposal to 
use to communicate so one of the really 
big foundations of my program is 
teaching my clients how to communicate 
where you're not pointing the 
finger if you're constantly 
communicating using you you this you 
that you made me no you allowed I am 
allowing right I allowed him blah blah 
blah blah blah right I'm allowing him to 
take up space in my head rentree I'm 
allowing him to take over my emotions so 
there's hence the empowerment piece of 
what I do is really taking 
accountability is standing in your power 
of 
choice and learning how to do things 
differently the next time 
and so again until you can own how you 
contributed to the downfall of your 
marriage you number one are not ready to 
be in another relationship and number 
two you're G to stay 
stuck it's called denial for a 
reason and yes go ahead oh sorry sorry I 
was like oh I'm so you're like 
wow keep going okay no I mean it's 
called denial for a reason and you you 
choose to stay in denial because it's 
easier than having to 
face the ugly parts of who you are and 
what I know to be true is that you know 
everybody's like oh what's the fast way 
what's the fast way well the fast way is 
the exact opposite of what you're doing 
which is diving head first in it and 
through it because if you go there and 
then you pull back and then you go there 
and you pull back you're never really 
allowing yourself to go there you know I 
can sit here and own how I showed up in 
my marriage because I'm not attached to 
it anymore because it's not part of who 
I've become it is 100% who I used to be 
but it is not who I am anymore I didn't 
know better and so Here Comes The 
Compassion piece again right the 
mindfulness piece of having awareness 
that that is who I 
was not getting into judgment around it 
and choosing to see it differently wow 
it took this for me to learn that I'm so 
glad I learned it now I'm so glad that 
you know my partner Jeff like he is I 
always say to him all the time I'm like 
thank God you know this version of me 
because she's really amazing right and I 
can stand here and say that because I 
know who I don't ever want to be again 
and while I know she's still there she 
she creeps out every now and then 
typically around my ex-husband but I 
know how to put her back I know how to 
shift so it's not like I'm cured cured 
right I say no cure we're never perfect 
we're never healed we're never like that 
person no what I know is how to shift 
how to shift out of it quickly and to go 
back right to own things to communicate 
like I 
feel I am upset about or hey I was 
feeling this when you did that or 
holding space for being told you know 
like jefff and I got into this 
conversation the other day and this you 
know again having to do with owning your 
side of the street like he was like hey 
remember you know you asked me to put a 
pin in this and then you like left the 
room after you finished what you were 
doing and you forgot to come back to our 
conversation yeah that didn't feel 
really good and I looked at him and I 
was like oh my God you're so right I 
totally did that I'm so so sorry okay 
you have my attention like old me would 
have been like I'm busy I have all this 
stuff on my head I have to do everything 
right and instead of just being like hey 
I get to listen to how my action made 
you feel you get to have your experience 
I'm having mine 
and so that part of owning your side 
right is really owning what your 
experience was and deciding did that 
feel good and if it didn't how do you 
want to approach that next time I love 
that and one thing I want to bring up in 
this conversation is we talk a lot and I 
know we talked about having a voice 
right and this comes up day after day 
hour after hour with my clients and so 
many of you struggle with your voice 
right and I'm not saying your real voice 
but what I'm saying is we have family of 
origin stuff where we were silenced 
where we were ridiculed where we were 
told to be small stop being annoying 
like your opinion doesn't matter throw 
some dirt in it go to your room calm 
down whatever it is and we all had these 
messages right and therefore we never 
learn how to have the bad feelings and 
we never know how to talk about them 
because we were put in our rooms and you 
know lick our own wounds and what did we 
do we shove things down so to your point 
looking at your side of the street comes 
from family of origin stuff I didn't 
have a voice why I didn't know how to 
use it I was never taught how to use it 
I was taught to be the good girl right 
to not say the thing to not ask the 
questions and for those of you that are 
listening to this and this resonates 
because I'm sure it resonates with 100% 
of you because we all have this to some 
extent working on it's okay to use your 
voice always and if you use it like 
Wendy was saying you want to use your 
voice mindfully and I want to tell you 
this I want you to think about using 
your PL your voice and you come from a 
place of Love imagine a giant pink 
sparkly heart in your abdomen okay and 
when you are delivering something maybe 
that was an ouch right come from a place 
of Love instead of coming from a place 
of reaction immediately we all want to 
react especially if we come from houses 
where we weren't allowed to have a voice 
or houses where there was dysfunctional 
conflict and we had it was fight or flee 
or freeze right so in that moment stop 
yourself this is the person that loves 
you like Wendy's saying with Jeff I can 
sense her coming out and you take her 
and you put her back in the bottle and 
you're like you're right I'm really 
sorry you told me to put a pin in that 
and I made you feel unimportant right 
come from that place of Love or if 
somebody wrongs you say to them instead 
of saying well when you did this I felt 
like this another way where we you know 
talk about at Smart dating Academy is 
hey you know when you said said this the 
story I told myself was you were 
thinking this about me am I making this 
up I love that that has I mean that has 
been such a GameChanger in my own 
marriage and we'll be 26 years this may 
the story I'm telling myself right now 
is right and we've just been doing this 
for the last five years game changing 
and then it's even less it's more it 
gives that person the chance to explain 
their intentions because it's kind of 
the definition of emotional intelligence 
I feel a paper cut but I might not be 
reading your intentions the right way 
and that as soon as I know like oh I 
didn't mean that what I meant was blah 
blah blah and you're like oh my God 
suddenly I'm not hurt anymore and you 
don't even have to go there it's like 
the story I'm telling myself is Right am 
I telling myself the right story on your 
side of the 
street yes love that preach so true so 
true on your side of the street and now 
let's talk about your journey into the 
dating world because most people here 
also want to know who's Jeff and how did 
you get to 
Jeff that's a great question um you know 
I I was telling I was telling B I'm like 
I kind of want to share like my dating 
perspective because I think I come at it 
a little bit differently um you know 
when I'm coaching my clients and helping 
them to kind of see when they're ready 
to to dive you know into the dating 
world and the way that I used dating was 
as I was getting to know myself as I was 
looking in the mirror and seeing who 
exactly was staring back at me as I 
started actually knowing the voice that 
was coming out of my mouth and feeling 
confident in what she was saying I 
decided to use dating as the way in 
which I was gaining confidence in being 
this new version of me and what I want 
to say to expand on that is that I 
wasn't going out on dates to get 
affirmation or external validation for 
who I was it was me showing up not 
caring what the other person thought of 
who was showing up at these you know 
dinners um or these drinks or these 
coffees and so or you know talking on 
the phone and so it was really important 
for me to because all my friends were 
married I didn't have single friends 
that was like a whole Community I had to 
create for myself and I knew my 
ex-husband was dating and in fact by the 
time I started dating he had already met 
somebody and so I wanted to really get 
myself out there because I just wanted a 
man to take me out to dinner as silly 
and simple as that sounds that's really 
what I wanted and it was and I remember 
like it was just so nice to have 
somebody want to talk to me to want to 
get to know me but one of the things 
that I quickly learned and something 
that I love that you teach your clients 
is that 
they get to earn the right to your story 
so the one part that I fine-tuned along 
the way was like how much to share and 
when but irregardless of that it still 
allowed me to really start being like 
God this feels really good it feels so 
good to be me to be all of me and to not 
care what these guys are saying or 
thinking and so I decided that 
I wanted to date for a couple of years I 
didn't want to be in a serious 
relationship I was with my ex-husband we 
met when we were 18 got married at 25 
divorced at 41 and I never dated I 
didn't so I kind of lived my 20s in my 
early 40s because I never had that 
experience and so it was a time for me 
to really just 
kind of sew my oats and and get myself 
out there and just to date and meet all 
these different types of people you know 
in my career I worked in ad sales and so 
like I love a room I love you know I 
love meeting new people I think it's 
really interesting to get to know people 
and their backgrounds and it really 
wasn't until probably about four years 
after we had separated that I really was 
ready to be in our relationship and so 
there was somebody before for Jeff who I 
dated for about a year and a half but he 
was kind of like he was what I needed 
he's what my boys needed at the time and 
My Philosophy is that like people come 
into your life for a reason and they 
come in when you need quote unquote need 
them right and so he was somebody who 
was just very fun and very lighthearted 
and he was you know he just gave my kids 
kind of the confidence that like Mom's 
going to find a really great guy who's 
going to love us and care about us but 
he wasn't longterm and after we broke up 
I decided to sign up for love lab 
because I was like okay I 
am I'm ready now like I am ready to find 
somebody and you know at this time my 
kids were older they knew I was dating 
their dad was already 
remarried also had a young baby and so I 
knew that they my kids were in a a good 
place and while that wasn't the deciding 
factor it was important to me that my 
kids be okay first and it was also a 
piece of anytime I went on a date I was 
very Crystal Clear like my kids will 
always come first like they are my blood 
and I love them and my kids come first 
and so anyway I signed up for love lab 
because I was like I am ready to go and 
within the weekend I had already just I 
learned so much about myself 
yay because you ask really interesting 
questions of us as we are putting 
together Our dating profile and what I 
always credit you with is you taught me 
how awesome I was like I knew I was 
really awesome but like you heightened 
that exponentially for me just by 
writing my profile and the power 
of really tapping into what makes you 
amazing and also standing in the power 
of what it is that you want I never 
thought about how writing in my profile 
like what I'm looking for or like you 
know it just it's like you make it so 
easy and you made it so easy for me and 
literally the same 
weekend that Bella and that I did love 
lab I met Jeff I mean what are the 
odds I 
mean I I yeah I mean you were ready you 
were ready I called him in and I 
manifested him because I got crystal 
clear on EXA exactly what I just said 
what I wanted I mean he checked every 
box and my list was really long you guys 
like down to the age I like guys that 
are you know he has a shaved head I I 
wrote that down like just the High I 
mean you name it it was like everything 
he fit everything that I written down 
and I had manifested because I actually 
I knew what I wanted I was in a place 
where I was open to 
receive and he and I because it was coid 
that was the other thing how do you Dae 
in coid I had learned how to date after 
you know in my 40s doing online now I 
was like oh God what are we doing Co and 
one of the benefits of what you taught 
is really getting to know each other via 
phone via video and so Jeff and I had 
three hour plus conversation the first 
night we talked we talked for over three 
hours and every night thereafter until 
our first date we talked for over three 
hours every single night and it was an 
intimacy that built it wasn't the 
butterflies it wasn't like the sexual 
attraction that I experienced when I was 
dating you know 
previously this was like it was almost 
like I felt like he and I were planting 
a sea together and we were we were 
fertilizing watering and putting sun on 
it together and seeing how it was going 
to grow and what it was going to look 
like together and yeah and you know 
we're still together two and a half 
years later last August we did a 
commitment ceremony in Maui with our 
kids he moved in we've combined families 
you know we're we may get married one 
day you know it's not off the table but 
um you know for us it's just important 
to be committed to each other and you 
know I found my my forever partner in 
love and life and and yeah I'm just it's 
it was it was it was you know as my mom 
would say it was Basher it was meant to 
be 
exactly exactly right in the Jewish 
faith if you help three people find 
their Basher you're guaranteed a spot in 
heaven well Bella you got your you got 
your ticket a while ago right I can take 
some friends with 
me actually I've done enough other 
reciprocal stuff I probably need all of 
those hall passes to so yeah right right 
young Bella certainly you know sewed her 
oats and had fun so I'm sure we're 
paying the price now so you're so funny 
well I'm so grateful that you came on 
here with so much authenticity is there 
anything that you you know that we 
didn't cover that you want to any gems 
you want to impart on our 
listeners you know the last piece that I 
will just throw in um that I touched on 
a little bit about the manifestation 
part right I I do do a lot of energy 
work on myself I do energy work with my 
clients and I talk about the energy 
healing that that I do and you don't 
have to be you don't have to be you know 
an energy healer or a Healer or you know 
somebody that's Uber spiritual but what 
I will say to you is this is that really 
faith and 
having confidence in a higher power 
believing in the universe really plays a 
role in the trajectory that your life 
takes and so I would just want to impart 
to 
everybody it's so important that you 
maintain a a certain amount of faith and 
trust and surrender in your path and to 
lean into the vision of the life that 
you want and to not back down under any 
circumstances whatsoever because you 
deserve to have the life that you want 
the partner that you want the abundance 
that you desire it is all possible for 
you and so I invite you to really call 
in guidance you know from the higher 
powers that be to guide you on your path 
um you know it it takes it does take 
work and it also takes a certain amount 
of trust that things are happening for 
you even when it doesn't feel like it 
is I love that and you guys I'm going to 
put a link in the show notes to Wendy's 
book which you can buy on Amazon called 
divorce sucks now what the five steps to 
find yourself and heal after going from 
I do to I'm divorced so thank you so 
much for being on with us and and you 
know may we all find our voice may we 
all know our worth and may we all keep 
our side of the street clean ladies and 
gentlemen thank you for having me Bella 
it's always so wonderful to chat with 
you so oh my God love you girl love you 
too 


healing 
after 
betrayal rachel is here with us because 
which one of us hasn't been betrayed and 
we've all had to figure out our way or 
maybe for you 
you're still down there on the ground 
figuring out how can i heal and i found 
that so long as i stayed in that victim 
mentality or my friends even supported 
me staying in that victim mentality by 
saying yeah you know he's at this or 
that or whatever our family members and 
so i did a lot of personal healing to 
get through this particular situation 
and get to the other side to where i 
actually am healthier for having gone 
through this can you find the meaning in 
the mess 
at that moment you are literally on your 
knees in the water and you feel this 
hand pulling you up by the collar saying 
i'm going to show you the way out 
[Music] 


so make sure you've got your notebooks 
and your pens or your iPhones out to 
take notes today delighted to have Wendy 
Sterling here with us she is a divorced 
women's empowerment and healer let's go 
there and for people that are listening 
to this somebody who's walking through 
divorce or somebody who's even lost 
their partner prematurely how do we know 
our worth it starts with you first of 
all finding yourself again right not 
looking outside but you looking inside 
and seeing what it is that is important 
to you in this life and distinguishing 
what you know your truths are from you 
know our ego those inner critics those 
judgmental negative voices that are 
inside of our heads and to also love 
everything about us 


so I was married for 22 years to the 
love of my life he was amazing but I 
found myself a widow at 48 I was just so 
devastated by it that I just I didn't 
think I'd ever could go on again I went 
on match.com I was not meeting the right 
kind of people so I went out and I dated 
a lot of guys I don't know it was just 
bizarre and I think I saw you on Good 
Morning America so I thought I am going 
to go and meet these people and I'm 
going to find out about this service I'm 
going to find out what am I doing wrong 
and I thought I just got to find a 
better way Curtis was actually the first 
one believe it or not we really enjoyed 
each other's company we liked each other 
and so we decided to become exclusive 
and about a month later we did move in 
together it's never too late to find 
love never I was giving up the rest of 
my life and now I have all these 
experiences I have a life of joy and 
just it's exciting now again and I feel 
like I'm in the human race again where 
before I feel like I just checked out 


her name is Anushka a Smart dating 
former client because now she's found 
the lead to her pot tell us how you got 
to where you are now I always had a 
clear idea in my mind from the time I 
was very little of like exactly what I 
wanted to achieve in life and then the 
timeline I wanted to achieve it on but 
as I started to get into like my late 
20s I started to question oh shoot this 
timeline I've set for myself on getting 
married and having kids is starting to 
look less and less realistic one of the 
people I started following someone on 
Instagram with the handle everything 
Erica and there were a couple episodes 
on the podcast where Bella was featured 
like oh my God I need This Woman's help 
and immediately like I started getting 
dates if you look back to early 2020 
would you have ever thought you'd be 
here never did I ever think that not 
only meet someone but like meet the 
person that I was going to spend the 
rest of my life with I'm still kind of 
shocked that I'm here 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm bellagande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart taters welcome back to one of your 
favorite episodes today is the love 
story of all love stories you guys you 
are going to want to eat this girl up in 
the same way Eileen and I do because 
she's just precious and beautiful and 
I'm so delighted to introduce my 
former client present friend current 
client because we're always going to be 
in each other's lives from Florida is so 
awesome to have you thank you for being 
here 
thank you thank you for having me thank 
you so much oh my gosh this is such an 
honor to have you here to tell your love 
story so you guys a quick I'm gonna 
start out in kind of a a funny way 
because her story is so cute and it made 
me want to go back and research the very 
first moment that she reached out to us 
so I have in front of me the form that 
she filled out okay this is he's 
cracking up Monday May 3rd 2021 at 5 51 
PM we have very good notes 
um Sadaf says I'm 32. she's from Florida 
the subject wait for it I want to find 
love 
if you could see her face she just took 
a sip of water 
okay and our form says send us your 
question or what you're interested in 
I am a hopeless romantic I've been 
dating for a while but no luck we either 
break up or I just get tired I recently 
met a guy who I thought was Mr Right but 
he ghosted me and broke my heart I need 
someone to tell me what am I doing wrong 
why do I attract the wrong guys can you 
help I am ready to find love please help 
and it said how did you hear about us 
and it said YouTube so start off what 
were you watching on YouTube tell us I 
was watching Steve Harvey you were 
watching my you were watching Steve the 
comedian 
is like I need a good laugh 
he's so funny I was like you need a good 
laughing oh Bella got me I'm like wait 
her lasted I love never got any so I'm 
just like oh wait let me I have to click 
on this and just hear about it and I was 
like I love her and instead of just like 
research that I saw I think all your 
videos well if 
I might be lying on most of them like 
most of you that I could find that day 
there's a lot yeah there's a lot so this 
is like sad thing I watched it I'll 
watch the Ted Talk and everything I was 
like oh my God I love her I need her I'm 
like please spell it just help me 
oh my gosh so I think we connected the 
same day or very shortly so why don't 
you tell us at the stage kind of tell us 
about growing up and how you got to May 
3rd 2021 kind of give us your back story 
because it's very relatable sure well I 
mean just a little bit about me you know 
I was uh I was born in Iran and I moved 
uh with my family here when I was 15. so 
it was a very hard transition but you 
know that's got through that and it was 
it really you know I grew up in like 
another strict family there were my 
family were really like open loving just 
grew up like watching my parents just so 
like little love and this is the cutest 
relationship ever I'm like I wanna love 
like that I would tell my mom at the 
time I was like Hey I want to marry 
someone just like that and my mom would 
like make fun of me like now like in a 
bad way we just she was just like well 
it was just only one and I took him 
sorry 
my mom I was like God Mom God we need to 
recreate him 
and I was like I just because I just had 
such a good relationship with him you 
know his daddy's girl and 
so I wanted to be um just the final love 
like that respectful 
loving always just I never heard my 
parents argue like yell at each other 
scream at each other and I would just 
see my fans in relationships I'm like oh 
wow like people that this happened so I 
just I always look for that and you know 
when it came to dating 
um I thought I was going to 
and um 
and it just wasn't easy from the 
beginning it wasn't easy it was I would 
just 
I don't know I just attracted guys that 
were just not ready to settle down one 
is why not stand not that I was into 
that but it was kind of like it was just 
so obvious I had to like move on and 
then date someone else and then talk to 
someone else and just like 
I'm like I'm tired it's just and I love 
like well you know kind of living in 
Jacksonville 
it's there's not a lot of options it's a 
big town but it's not a lot of options 
it's just you go out and you see you see 
the same people over and over and over 
again so it's just could be exhausting 
right and you worked in the medical 
field back then yeah 
so yeah and I still I'm in nursing 
school right now because I decided to go 
back and it's been it's difficult oh 
yeah it is yeah 
well that's it 
so you you know I'm remembering and just 
kind of looking back at notes you said 
now at the point you emailed us you were 
32 and you said I always thought I would 
get married by the age of 25 and have my 
first child at 27. so now you're five to 
seven years beyond that at this point 
and now what was what was your perfect 
guy back in the day like who were you 
looking for like what was your checklist 
oh well he had to be for my country so 
that and also he had to be tall very you 
know muscular big and just like this 
cool dude and just showing off my feet 
and taking all through all these like 
vacations and all these places and that 
was the perfect guy to me that's like a 
Bollywood film yeah 
right exactly we're gonna go dance 
behind trees in the rain like a 
Bollywood so and so so you okay so now 
you're dating right you're looking for 
this tall muscular you know Persian hot 
sweep you off your feet kind of guy who 
were you who were you attracting who 
were you dating them 
I was I was attracting them but they 
were all narcissists oh 
oh narcissist is just so like I'm just 
like so perfect I'm this perfect guy you 
have to like listen to what I say we're 
controlling very uh manipulative you 
know like and I'm like wow this is not 
what I was looking for okay maybe just 
day outside of my race you know 
so I did that 
same thing it doesn't matter where 
they're from right narcissist is a 
narcissist amen sister 
foreign 
nothing it's just 
we're all the same and I was uh dating 
people I don't know why I attracted guys 
that were just not ready to settle down 
it wasn't I couldn't just 
it was just not ready to settle down and 
it was you know you you just so perfect 
and if you wanted someone to settle down 
with it would have been you I'm like 
well 
just 
see you like me and 
but oh they weren't ready or 
controlling manipulative like 
just not wanting something that I want 
did not want just we just wouldn't know 
we're not on the same way with you know 
like very 
and they started off great right and it 
wasn't unset month and I'm just they're 
just like yeah you know this could be 
casual like when like when I remember I 
first meeting I was just like telling 
you about this guy that he was just all 
like sewing to me take me to this most 
expensive restaurant do all these 
amazing things for me but then he was 
just like you know I'm really not 
ready to settle down I just want 
something casual I'm like oh yeah no I'm 
not like I'm 31 I don't want that's I 
would that that's something a 20 year 
old would do I'm not and I'm not ready 
for that like I don't want that I'm just 
and I was thinking like a guy who just 
treats you that way 
would be different but he he wasn't he 
was just like all of them they weren't 
just I dated someone who was who was a 
broker nothing just broke 
no no other people will like like 
someone who would though take me to just 
like you know a casual whatever 
restaurants 
or someone who take me to the most 
expensive places and 
the same didn't matter it was the same 
no it just doesn't matter it doesn't 
matter how they treat you what kind of 
car to pick you up in or what 
conversation they have it's just they're 
all just 
narcissists and 
I don't know I just I I would tell my 
friends I was like I don't know what is 
it about me that I just attract those 
people 
why why can I attract someone who's 
going to love me who is going to just 
be just loving but you know I did not 
realize until I started working with you 
guys that's all what I was looking for 
you know those guys who were like loving 
and all this that this good qualities 
those high quality men and 
I was not paying attention to them 
and that's a big shift you know for you 
dear listener is when you're saying I 
keep attracting the wrong person the 
change the reframe I want you to take in 
this is not I'm attracting the wrong 
people I am picking and accepting the 
wrong people right right we're always 
looking on the other side of the street 
oh well he's a narcissist he's doing 
this he's doing that but if I look at my 
side of the street my lawn it's like 
well I'm picking up 
I'm saying yes to them so hold on what 
is it and so and so that day so you had 
your last narcissist and now you're 31 
bad relationship you're watching Steve 
you go down a rabbit trail of watching 
my videos you call me and we decide 
you're like I'm ready to invest in 
myself let's do this yeah I said I'm 
just like I need someone to tell me what 
I'm doing wrong I need 
because I would I listened to your 
videos a lot and I was like yeah what 
she's saying makes sense and I need to 
do something differently and I don't 
know how to change that about myself and 
I need someone to check me like hey no 
this isn't right you're going back to 
your old ways so yeah so that's how 
that's what we're here 
my God and so so now this I talked to 
set up and like absolutely let's do this 
we signed up she's like this is a big 
leap for me this is investment but I'm 
ready to do this great so the next thing 
we do is we I think we did your photo 
shoot first or your jump start first 
my video life your photo shoot right 
photo shoot first yeah I go to Chicago 
and you guys you guys I have to tell you 
so I don't know who I'm seeing right she 
was like oh don't worry I'll be fine 
with my clothes I'm good we didn't know 
anything because we're like send us your 
clothes send us photos we didn't get 
anything I'm like okay I think this will 
be okay I walk into the studio this 
scrap dead gorgeous girl Michelle and 
Anissa are like uh we have a Victoria's 
Secret model in the studio 
stunning beautiful like t-shirt jean 
shorts cute little rompers like 
absolutely the most stunning person and 
what was so beautiful about you number 
one you don't even realize how stunning 
you are on the outside but your inner 
beauty and your fun and you bring what's 
so beautiful about you is you didn't 
bring 
anxiety or negativity to the process you 
came in and you were like this is 
amazing I'm here look at the camera big 
smiles walking down the street posing 
pop my lip do it all and this mindset 
that you came in with was infectious you 
had fun we had fun and I could see with 
you I don't think this is going to take 
that long but however what do I know I 
predict things sometimes they come true 
a lot of times I might say it'll happen 
for you in five weeks and it takes five 
years I don't have any predictability as 
to how long this is taking and if you're 
out there and you've been dating for 
three four five years it's okay right at 
a certain point the universe is going to 
say knock knock he's here the lid to 
your pot has arrived I can't predict 
that that's up to God in the universe 
but here this beautiful girl walks in we 
get these amazing pictures and by the 
time you're listening to this we're 
gonna have this gorgeous page on our 
site and you're gonna see I'm not 
exaggerating by these photos okay so 
um and so then the biggest transition 
came when you did your three-hour 
meeting 
yeah with Eileen right and what did you 
find out about your checklist that day 
I found out I 
I I'm really not 
letting because I think I did tell you 
about this that I'm not letting I'm not 
looking for 
those elevated people that you always 
talk about I'm not looking for those 
people 
and those are the people who make me 
happy that's because you know and I 
found out 
they are not getting to know the guys 
that I was going out on date with 
previously not taking time to get to 
know the real me 
right and that's what was different from 
with my you know my current fiance 
because he took the time to get to know 
me when it just that was and 
I did I would just pay attention of 
every little thing I'm not saying I'm 
picky because I mean I am but I don't 
know but I would just every little thing 
because I would just even like looking 
at his pictures online it was a picture 
of him and his dog who I love was just 
sitting right there 
guys with dogs and he had pit bulls I 
love pit bulls and he had a pitbull I 
didn't was like you should thank your 
dog because it was one of the reasons 
and he's very adventurous I never paid 
attention to that before that these are 
the things that will make me happy guys 
who are adventurous guys who will want 
to travel with me with me not just by 
themselves like oh hell we'll see you in 
a week we'll see you in two weeks we'll 
see you in a couple of days or I'll just 
hit you up when I come back and 
I didn't realize that I need someone who 
is going to support me 
to be there for me 
to just really make me feel comfortable 
in a way to 
um show him the size of me that 
I don't show a lot of people right right 
you know like he was just truly 
ask questions even like 
I feel like I because I dated a guy 
before him for four years and I don't 
even think he knows what's who's my 
favorite singer or what kind of music I 
like he does like just the basics that's 
the basics he knew nothing so hold on 
let's back up December sorry December 
2021 okay now we've been dating for 
months 
you're on it wasn't match it was match 
yes I mean I was on Bumble and but it 
wasn't really but I like match so much 
better like it was but because I could 
see a lot more like more just they would 
write about themselves like a read and 
just kind of you know because I was like 
oh okay I like this that's right and you 
you used our profile book and rewrote 
your profile 
amazing so good so cute and so now it's 
December 2021 you reach out to this man 
named James 
oh yeah I messaged him did you guys hear 
that did you guys hear that he didn't 
message her she proactively messaged him 
so often if a guy if I have to master 
them they don't like me as much I'm like 
no no no no okay tell us 
would be comfortable enough for like oh 
yeah okay I think I'll like this Matt 
ladies messaged him if you see something 
you like go after it go get it oh she's 
going to become a dating coach now be 
careful look at her here she is give us 
preach girl tell us what to do okay so 
you you messaged him and then what 
happened 
I was just like yeah I talked to few men 
and I will just a message back and forth 
um 
it's funny first my uh profile I was 
telling Eileen I'm like Eileen this is 
sad 
no one's messaging me and then she said 
let me let me look at this she's like 
you met your profile is hidden 
because I did it I'm just not the most 
text Daddy person 
I love it 
okay we're just talking and then I was 
like Eileen I'm really not feeling it 
it's just that feeling inside of you 
that you're just like oh yeah I really 
really want to know more about this 
person 
and um I was like and she's like well 
let's just look you know to see if you 
because you know part of the process is 
you also you know this amount of time 
that you spend and if she helped me to 
like look at some of the profiles and I 
saw this with the first picture his 
profile was him 
um smiling and I was like he has the 
most adorable smile like and I clicked 
on it right away and I started looking 
at his pictures a picture of him 
traveling picture of him with his dog I 
was like wow I just I'm like and I 
imagine imagine like first thing 
and I hear your plot and this is history 
oh my gosh what was the what was your 
first date like and how and tell us 
about that 
yeah see like uh so we talked on the 
phone I said hey I want to have a 
conversation on the phone and just 
because I wanted to see if you can keep 
a conversation going and if you did talk 
you can ask people kind of fool I'd like 
I said I like Italian food and then he 
picked this Italian restaurant 
and set a time we went and um 
it just the conversation was just so 
natural it kept talking the whole it was 
no awkward silence and he asked me all 
this he would just truly wanted to know 
me and um some of the questions he would 
ask me like whoa wait I have to think 
about this like what's your favorite 
sport 
what's your favorite this what's your 
favorite bat what do you like and it 
didn't feel like an interrogation if you 
feel like an interview it was just very 
natural yeah 
like he wants to just to know me like he 
genuinely 
is curious about me and it was just a 
breath of fresh air 
and is he American or where did he come 
from oh well he was born in England 
yeah I know I'm British man are amazing 
but he moved here when he was seven 
years old so he's been in America for a 
really long time he's 36 now 
yeah so he's been here 
um yeah it's just I was like wow he's a 
gentle man and I was it was I was 
waiting until so we were there for a 
while like it was the same 90 minutes 
but I think I learned I broke the rule 
I've been over 90 minutes you were on 
your first date for over 90 minutes 
you're talking and talking and then we 
left and I was like please do not ask me 
to go home with you I was just like 
praying I just so sad that's such a 
simple thing we have to just pray for 
that and he didn't just say goodbye and 
I'll talk to you later and you got in 
his car and drove off I was like oh 
thank God 
it wasn't this narcissistic hookup 
artist like hey baby you want to come 
hang out no he was like okay 
talk to you later and you were like this 
is kind of amazing then what happened 
when did you hear from me 
that night he messaged me he thanked me 
you know where to date and he said he 
had a good time and he'd love to 
um you know hang out again and we did 
and on the second day even another 
restaurant we had sushi 
and then our third day was New Year's 
Eve so I'm this is a brand new guy that 
I just met and I'm meeting like 15 of 
his friends oh my God no pressure no 
pressure at all no it's you know 
whatever and like he asked me like do 
you want to hang out with me and me you 
want to be my New Year's Day I'm like 
sure yeah why not 
so his friends they were so precious 
they're so amazing it was like people 
around him 
it's just I feel like he tracks that 
kind of people wow I have not met a 
friend of his that is just rude mean or 
just a bad person I've got bad feeling 
about wow they were amazing they're so 
welcoming and I really got along with 
them made friends with the girls I'm 
like still friends with them and just us 
hanging out even by ourselves 
they're so sweet and yeah that was our 
third day we did all his fans on New 
Year's right kept on hanging out after 
that and it was amazing and it was it's 
funny um I don't know if I'm jumping 
ahead but it was a month in 
I was like okay I've been running a few 
dates 
I was messaging Eileen because we were 
coming towards the end of our uh you 
know our session together our time and I 
was like you know I really like him I 
haven't been on a date with any other 
person I haven't really talked to 
anybody else and 
I wanted to see if he's on the same page 
if he wants to be if make it official 
she's like ask him I'm like you want me 
to ask him what she said yeah just ask 
him and just ask him and he says he's 
not ready give him some time be like 
okay well we'll have this conversation 
in a week or two just give him some room 
and then if he's not ready just move on 
because you just that's not what you're 
looking for you don't want to just go on 
dates and have fun that's you want to 
settle down get mad and I'll say okay I 
asked him and he's like I was like are 
you dating other people and he he gone 
it was like a little offended he's like 
what dating other people what do you 
mean no I'm not dating other people I'm 
with you okay oh 
so and then he just brought up he said 
do you want to make it official he's 
like hell yeah okay there you go 
I feel like I have a boyfriend 
right and it I because from my previous 
experience I was like so you are my uh 
party's like boyfriend and he was like 
I'm your boyfriend I was like ah okay 
there you go we have a title right we 
just for those of you who haven't heard 
the podcast episode from a couple of 
weeks ago it's does being exclusive mean 
your boyfriend or girlfriend in my 
definition it should but you need to 
clarify that and start off as a good 
student of ours like one equals the 
other it's not a stepping stone to 
giving somebody a title if you are not 
seeing anybody else you're pulling your 
profiles down yes please ask so I am 
your fill in the blank please oh my 
friend girlfriend girlfriend girlfriend 
whatever you are get the title clear it 
up that day 
oh yeah I was like I need to know I'm 
too old for this I need to know that I 
just 
I'm your girlfriend or not and just 
it's been amazing ever since maybe it 
had some challenges and you know who 
doesn't what couple doesn't but we just 
overcame that and 
because we generally just want to be 
together we work at it we take the time 
to work through our problems and he's 
just he's just a gentle soul 
he's so gentle so sweet 
just I I can 
he's an elevator person he's the 
elevator first he's my cheerleader 
because sometimes I get I know sometimes 
I get tired of studying 
like I'm I don't want to study anymore 
I'm just so tired he's like one more 
hour just just give me one more hour he 
can do it just one more hour and then 
come out and we'll just watch it Netflix 
show or whatever we can do one more hour 
and look up I had a migraine this 
morning and he said just lay in bed and 
relax even I got new Starbucks and she's 
like cheer me up and he's like just you 
know just get this positive energy in 
yourself just think about the people who 
love you think about your parents think 
about me think about 
um you know our dog and because he was 
like the dog was laying in bed with me 
and he's like because he knows how much 
I love the dog and he's like just think 
about it and just keep just you know 
just try to pump yourself up you can do 
this and you're gonna feel better I'm 
gonna go get your sorrow do you want me 
to like yeah I'm gonna do 
thank you 
because he was having a visit because he 
works from home and 
but he really 
like 
the smallest things 
matters the smallest stuff because 
for him to care about the fact that I'm 
not feeling well I need coffee it that 
really does help me let me go pick up 
coffee for you or let me do something 
for you that's going to make you happy 
it just it really does a little stuff 
that we look over we tend to uh not pay 
attention to I'd be like oh whatever 
because we just want to be in a 
relationship so bad 
it's not good we should pay attention to 
those red files in the very early on 
because he's 
I feel like I found someone who loves me 
the same way my dad loves my mom 
your makeup is so pretty don't cry 
this is it's like the perfect book end 
and you are when did you get engaged why 
so he took me on a vacation 
um because our first vacation we just 
loves to travel 
we went to Charleston South Carolina 
at our one year anniversary was coming 
up so he's like oh why don't we just go 
there and you know and I'm like okay so 
there was this this beautiful puff I 
wish I remember it Snee I can never 
remember it 
um he said we're going to do a tour 
we're gonna go on a tour but we're gonna 
go to a to a fancy restaurant afterwards 
just dress up you know it's a really 
fancy restaurant okay 
and I'm walking up I'm looking for a 
group I'm looking I was like I said dad 
he's like no I'm like he said I'm right 
there he's like no he said okay come on 
let's go this way where are we going and 
then 
he's always like I have something in my 
shoes and he just got something on my 
shoes that's why he's 
I don't want me and he has 
beautiful speech and then he I was just 
like I'm gonna I don't for some reason 
when he say I'm looking around like is 
this happening to me right now you were 
confused 
I'm getting engaged like what this man 
who's amazing he just like 
wow he wants to marry me what were you 
completely surprised I was completely 
surprised I had a feeling that if 
you are moving to that towards that 
direction but I didn't know it was going 
to happen in that vacation it happened 
and after you know he gave me doing and 
we hug and we kissed and he was like oh 
look over there I'll look and I see 
someone's taking picture of us so he set 
up a like a photographer just sit there 
and like take pictures of us and then we 
did a photo shoot with him afterwards 
and it was I'm like wow you are just 
sort of a cage right afterwards and we 
they had like a dinner this beautiful 
restaurant and 
it was just like a dream I just I'm like 
wow like everything all this heartache 
everything I went through because it 
went away it was worth it if 
I feel like everything that I went 
through with just you know dating 
getting my heart broken and all that 
yeah yeah I feel like you're just 
Universe rewarded me 
the universe rewarded you it was your 
time right and I'm sorry 
and what I love 
in your story is that you you know so 
many people wait and wait and wait and 
they keep doing the same thing over and 
over again thinking I'm gonna watch a 
video and I'm gonna learn everything and 
you were smart enough to know I need to 
really change things up and I need 
somebody to teach me and hold me 
accountable and that you allowed us to 
do that for you so that's for sure you 
were a gift my whole team loves you 
everybody that loves you I text you and 
Nisa they're like shut up 
everybody super super excited that 
you're engaged and when's the wedding 
October 28th October 28th of this year 
you guys 
this beautiful soul is between you if 
you're thinking you've had your heart 
broken again and again and again and 
you know you keep attracting the wrong 
guy think about are you accepting the 
wrong people are you picking the wrong 
people and most of the people we work 
with their Pickers are off and so having 
someone to help you identify where your 
picker is off and then gently guiding 
you in the direction of good people it's 
such an honor to to do this work and to 
see that pot of gold at the end of the 
rainbow for you that you're engaged and 
truth be like iMessage set off just out 
of nowhere like she was in my phone last 
week I'm like hey how are you you're 
like oh my God I was gonna text you 
wedding photos but I'm engaged I'm like 
wait what and then 
this week and I'm like you have to tell 
your love story on the podcast because 
you're so darn cute 
oh thank you it's it's it's been an 
amazing journey and I'm really like you 
guys your whole team are always in my 
heart and 
it's it really helped me to 
realize what I was doing wrong and 
just opened my eyes to 
just this whole new world of dating and 
I know it happened quickly for me 
because it wasn't so long after I got on 
the website that I read my fiancee 
um but it might take some time and it 
really don't give up and that's what I 
tell my single family do not give up 
just 
make sure the guy that you're going 
after 
is the right guy for you and if you see 
a red flag because I would see sometimes 
I would even see those red flags but I 
would ignore them I would like you know 
but he has all these other good 
qualities but that red flag 
was just like 
it was a big deal he was a controlling 
person but I would ignore it because he 
was and some you know right he's just 
easy hands um he's just like I got like 
he's like like I wanted someone who's 
taller than me because of like I loved 
where I am going to taller he is he's 
just 
look sometimes I'll look at I'm like are 
you real like really good and it just it 
does happen it I believe there are 
guys like that or girls for because 
there are Gods who are you know looking 
for their 
um partner or of course if there are 
people like that for all of us there is 
love for all of us out there we just 
have to be patient and 
um just keep on looking because he or 
she they're out there they're waiting 
for us 
right and you gotta change things up and 
then Shake It Up you gotta change things 
up like the photos the text in your 
profile the way you're messaging how 
you're picking there's a whole dating 
well I don't know how the hell a car 
works but I know that there's a lot of 
stuff that happens from the time I press 
on to make that car reverse out of my 
driveway dating is very much the same 
way there's a lot of stuff that has 
synchronicity that has to all happen in 
the right time and yeah you're such a 
good student and you did it all and I'm 
so happy for you and I'm grateful that 
you came on here to share your optimism 
and I love that you know that love 
exists for everybody message guys first 
okay ladies right message guys first if 
you see something you'll like go get it 
go after it do you have any more pieces 
of wisdom for someone who's single and 
wishing for love 
be patient be patient love yourself 
and be patient love is out there because 
once you have that attitude you're 
Attract it you will attract a guy who 
is in your same level who's on your 
sample level you attract that kind of 
person for guys too because 
you know I feel like be positive like 
you cannot lose hope be positive 
just 
go on those dates 
listen to Bella 
come to Chicago 
you'll have a lot of fun 
and just 
it works it's just you and it is okay 
for you to 
be depressed the issue you know to just 
go just go get it be like hey you want 
to be my boyfriend you want to go out on 
a date with me you want to you know do 
this and it's it's okay and 
and then give him time to be the 
gentleman and you know just spoil you 
and you know but but you have the power 
and what you're saying is Empower 
yourself Empower yourself with patience 
Empower yourself with compassion for 
yourself for the process and to do 
whatever it is you want to do message 
the guy use your voice ask him to be 
exclusive right what is this so take the 
bowl by the horns because with the right 
person you won't have to wonder 
no you really don't because he's not 
going to keep you guessing he never kept 
me guessing he was very honest just 
straight up very direct and really uh 
when you are talking him just pay 
attention don't sit there and be all 
like 
yeah you just you're just looking I'm 
just so you know happy to be here every 
little thing that he says it just shows 
you the kind of person he is because for 
me it was important for the guy to be 
family oriented 
uh on our first conversation he said 
okay well I have to you know say goodbye 
to you because I'm going to see my 
family I'm gonna go see my parents 
because I haven't seen him in a while I 
was like wow look at that he's closing 
his family I love it like I love the guy 
who's family oriented so 
stuff like that don't be like I wanna go 
see your family but if you're looking 
for a guy who's going to be family 
oriented because family are very 
important 
because I want to see the guy that who 
what kind of 
household he was raised 
so even he's just that way and he is 
very close to them 
it's just 
makes it that much better you just pay 
attention and if you see a red flag and 
it's big just be like yeah bye it's fine 
peace out thank you next he's single 
he's single then it's better be single 
than be miserable amen oh you're such a 
Dream well I hope you come back to 
Chicago for a comeback with James and 
we'll do another photo shoot for you 
around the same thing I was in Chicago 
for my um uh photo shoot he was just 
visiting there and I'm like oh wait was 
it what's that thing that was totally 
fade all of its fate all of his faith 
thank God for Steve Harvey 
thank God for Steve Harvey 
or 
Steve yeah 
yeah I'd be like hey there's another 
wedding we did Steve 
[Laughter] 
oh big hugs to you thank you so much and 
for all of you listening I hope that 
you're inspired by sadaf's story and you 
know that love exists for you as well 
and take the steering wheel of your own 
dating life change things up send that 
message change those photos invest in 
yourself do things differently whatever 
that means to you so until next week 
keep the love that she's given you and 
I'm giving you in your heart be inspired 
that the lid to your pot is out there 
and all you have to do is keep dating 
until you find him or her and amen amen 
and with that smart daters Sada thank 
you so much we love you I love you thank 
you so much for having me on oh my gosh 
and smart taters we'll see you next week 


Good Morning America Janae Norman thank 
you for being here with us today this is 
an absolute pleasure let's do this so 
tell us about you tell us your story I 
knew even in high school I wanted to 
intern in New York City I wanted to end 
up at ABC News and I was going to do 
whatever I needed to to make that happen 
I was in a communication class one day 
when there was a posting for a 
production assistant job at the local 
ABC affiliate went and applied that day 
got that job so I'd be there working go 
to class and then come back an intern 
then just sort of the way the universe 
does there would be breaking news and no 
one else there so they would send me out 
to cover it and then I got the 
internship in New York with ABC and that 
was the dream and so like oh my God City 
and it was just so amazing 


we have inside of us something called an 
autonomic nervous system is responsible 
for our thoughts our feelings our 
behaviors the sensations we have the way 
we perceive ourselves others in the 
world around us it is literally 
responsible for our entire experience 
and we learn about outer space and yet 
no one teaches us about this system 
within us 
that if we don't have control over it is 
like going on autopilot and so much of 
the time we don't know how to change our 
experience because we don't know about 
the system that's running our experience 
so I teach people about this system 
within us and then I teach them how to 
gain control over it and in the process 
we bring healing to the past and change 
our relationships our internal 
experience on and our life as a whole 
wow it sounds like magic truly I mean 
it's Neuroscience but it's also the most 
magical extraordinary thing that I've 
personally ever experienced and walked 
thousands of people through two 


this may be a part of the breakup 
conversation or it may come afterwards 
but at some point it needs to be 
established that you're going to take 
some time off from communicating you 
know no contact period but that's 
designed and implemented to help you to 
heal then there may be Logistics uh the 
exchange of things that should be the 
initiator's responsibility to make that 
happen if you're living together there 
is so much more of a complexity but you 
may also have to be the person to to 
initiate that and then there's dealing 
with social media yes whether or not 
you're going to continue to follow one 
another and there are ways to introduce 
perhaps disconnecting in order for you 
too to have time to space that time to 
heal yeah you can mute people okay you 
don't have to even unfollow you can mute 
them on most apps yes and if you want to 
unfollow them you can't 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart taters happy Monday and welcome 
back I am God you know this is my 
favorite time of year and why is this my 
favorite time of year because something 
amazing happens at this time of year and 
I want to help you get ready for Peak 
dating season we should just start 
calling it PDS because we've been 
talking about this for so many years at 
this point so I know you're thinking 
about it you want all the juice on how 
to get ready so I'm bringing one of my 
favorite people one of my favorite 
guests one of my favorite humans on 
Earth I'm bringing you Lindsay the 
Superstar of Insider secrets to dating 
my right hand shares my dating brain 
Lindsay I'm so glad you're here with me 
let's empty our brains out for all these 
beautiful people globally that want to 
know what the hell is Peak dating season 
and why why we're here so welcome thank 
you thank you and by the way why haven't 
we been calling it PDS all these years 
it's way better than PMS I was about 
more fun I love it and by the way nobody 
talks about PMS anymore like is that 
even a thing 
no you're right maybe it's all these we 
have too many good treatments now I 
don't know I you're right nobody really 
does talk about PMS but they should all 
be talking about PDS which is so much 
more fun so much more exciting and it 
doesn't hurt as much well listen you 
guys I as I squirrel off into PMS 
Lindsay often tells me it's like I have 
squirrel brain and if there's something 
bright glossy and red outside of the 
window I'll be like oh my god let's look 
at that let's talk about that and then I 
need to come back to Center again so I'm 
always like Bella back to the notes 
in the schedule yes yes exactly so this 
is my creative nature that comes to 
haunt me constantly so I'm back to PDS 
versus PMS so 
um now Peak dating season right I mean 
we've had Smart dating Academy since 
October of 2009 and I don't think 
Peak dating season was a thing or 
anybody was really talking about it 
until maybe I don't know 2014 
2015. yeah yeah right because you've 
been with me since 2013. I remember we 
did something on the Today Show about it 
and that had to be maybe 2015-16 and now 
it's a thing I'm definitely doing good 
morning America on January 7th because 
the busiest online dating day of the 
year is shortly thereafter but let me 
come back to Center and let's talk about 
Peak dating season for those of you that 
are new to us what is it think about 
December January February okay and what 
happens around this time there's two 
drivers for Peak dating season 
50 to 80 percent membership increases on 
all the dating apps and dating sites on 
planet Earth right like what is going on 
people often say like God I would have 
never thought this I everybody thinks 
that dating numbers increase in the 
summer we talk about summer love we're 
talking we're off of work our kids are 
off of work and it feels like that's a 
better time to date oh contraire mon 
frere this is the right time because 
there's two drivers the holidays 
and new year new me right I mean we see 
this every single year 
we do and it follows we we joke it 
always follows like the weight loss 
Trends you know if you try to go to the 
gym in the beginning of January you are 
like pushing people off the treadmill 
left and right the classes are full all 
of the regular people are like who are 
all these strangers in my class same 
thing happens online people get excited 
if they think thought about trying 
dating before and they haven't been on 
the sites they'll jump on like 
gangbusters if they've taken a break for 
a while they get right back on because 
everybody is ready to do something fresh 
it's really it's I think that makes it 
so much more fun I'm cracking up and 
having a squirrel moment here because I 
know as you know someone who loves to 
work out I go to the gym and I know 
January 2nd I'm like I'm not going to be 
able to find a parking space at the gym 
and then last year I remember taking my 
own advice swallowing my own Kool-Aid 
saying reframe this positively wow how 
amazing that there's so many more people 
that want to be concerned about their 
health and wellness and they are now 
coming to the gym as well so that made 
me less aggravated when I was looking 
for a parking space because I thought of 
all these people that are going to do 
good for their body and speaking of if 
you haven't listened to the episode two 
weeks ago about how to become more 
psychotically optimistic I talk about 
positive reframing you can be like damn 
it I hate all these people I can't find 
a parking space or you can say thank 
goodness all these people are here 
because the world is gonna get healthier 
in general and isn't that lovely so go 
back and listen to that episode but now 
let's listen by the way I just want to 
give you credit for that that is a very 
good reminder see guys we teach all this 
and we also have to put to practice 
everything we talk about too so one very 
nice reminder I like it 100 we're not 
perfect humans we don't live 
I know I know you all think we're 
perfect right and we really appreciate 
that we do have those one percent 
moments just kidding we're like we 
struggle with the same things every day 
maybe in different pieces of our lives 
right because life has all these 
different pieces right for you guys 
dating might be one of them right we're 
in relationships we have kids we have 
work we're all living in that same vat 
of what we call life right and we have 
to constantly in some ways revise our 
own mindset so yes positively reframing 
and go back and listen to that 
psychotically optimistic episode I might 
go back and listen to myself just 
kidding 
um but I will I'll put my headphones in 
before bed and I'll just listen to your 
voice listen to me just listen to me 
um I like it at night it's really funny 
I was actually out taking a walk in the 
park and you know I looked horrible and 
had a baseball hat on and my air pods 
and this woman walked past me she's like 
hey I'm listening to you right now your 
podcast I was like oh my God I need to 
wear sunglasses because I look horrible 
and I'm really embarrassed that someone 
saw me isn't that very funny well it is 
but what a cool I mean I love that 
podcast moment you guys it was a podcast 
moment so wear your sunglasses because 
you never know who's gonna see you when 
you don't have mascara on so now let's 
talk about back to Peak dating season so 
you know everybody is getting online 
right now right new year new me January 
1 just does that like Lindsay's saying 
weight loss right I want to get a new 
job I want to have new friends what are 
the new resets that we're going to do 
right so what happens is 
all these new people are getting online 
because everybody's like longer I hate 
the dating apps but maybe I'll give it a 
try again some people come in they're 
bright-eyed and bushy-tailed saying I've 
been so scared to try the apps but maybe 
I'm gonna give it a try maybe I'll be 
open to love and if this resonates with 
you this is so the right time for you to 
think about dipping your toe into the 
pool so much so that if you're in this 
pool of people 
Sundays are typically the busiest day of 
the week right Lindsay as you and I both 
know we tell our clients maybe launch on 
Saturday or Sunday once we're coaching 
with them because Sunday evenings right 
after dinner between 6 and 10 p.m are 
the busiest times in any given week to 
be online now why is that I'm sure we 
can posit an answer to that right well 
absolutely I mean I think people get 
online because just like you're looking 
at your calendar to see what work 
meetings you have first thing Monday 
morning you're also thinking through the 
week and looking at your schedule and 
wanting to sort of see who just got on 
tonight that I want to start a 
conversation with for the next few days 
that I could potentially go on a date 
with or move to the phone or going to 
have a video call with by the end of the 
week so 
same thing evenings are a great time to 
be online and we're not saying if you 
missed your Sunday evening after between 
seven and nine PM oh you're done for the 
week this is you know the online dating 
pool is like the ocean there are is 
always water there are always people 
there are just certain times where 
you're going to catch a bigger wave and 
so Sunday nights are a great time and or 
anytime in the evening 
when people often ask like what if I 
just am an early bird I get up at 3am 
I'm like no don't message people at 3am 
yeah don't do that but other than that 
any other time in the evening right you 
can earmark people to message write down 
things screenshot them whatever it is 
but no messaging at 3am because you're 
in Insomniac right get on Audible Listen 
to A Book Like do something else right 
get yourself into a more positive mind 
space but yeah so Sundays are definitely 
the busiest times and now we've got the 
Sunday after New Year's Day now what's 
particularly peculiar about 20 23 is New 
Year's Day is a Sunday yeah okay so I 
had a call with one of my favorite 
people at match two weeks ago and we 
talked about what match calls dating 
Sunday what we call the busiest online 
dating day of the year and we're all 
co-present addicting that it's going to 
be Sunday January 8th so put that in 
your calendar you actually have extra 
time this year right if you can get 
online New Year's Day if you're not too 
hungover or you know you're not resolved 
to not you know use your phone or your 
apps on New Year's Day whatever it is 
try it on New Year's Day but get 
prepared that you've got this extra week 
until January 8th so match will have the 
busiest moment I mean typically they 
predict that sometime between the 8 p.m 
and 9 p.m hour where you are locally is 
going to be the busiest moment of the 
busiest day I've seen 8 51 PM I've seen 
8 52 p.m again don't obsess but just 
know that you want to be if you've got 
the wherewithal to be in the ocean that 
day as Lindsay said the wave will be 
cresting but if you miss it or you sleep 
through it or you're too hungover it's 
okay because you know what's going to 
happen tomorrow morning there's still a 
lot of fish in the sea okay exactly 
exactly and the fun thing too is because 
we're talking about Peak dating season 
more and more they're getting in the 
media and they're putting the message 
out other people are going to be really 
inspired by this too so you guys will 
get to hear about it here but the 
message is out there that the online 
dating this is the best time to be 
online right now people are going to 
feel more energetic and more excited 
about it and that's only going to help 
you fellow dators because we're going to 
give you great tips today on what you 
can do to prepare for that before 
everybody else gets on site gets on the 
site exactly exactly so by the time 
you're hearing this it's going to be 
before Christmas and you've got time and 
remember this is really as much as we're 
focused on gifting everybody else and 
getting our houses ready for family 
remember 
you deserve a gift from yourself and 
that gift is invest resting in yourself 
and preparing for yourself right so 
think of yourself as highly as you think 
of others and this is a gift that you're 
going to give yourself why because you 
deserve it right and give yourself maybe 
an hour a day to prepare do something 
that gives you Joy and remember 
preparing for something that's really 
important to you intentionally and if 
you're what do I want in 2023 if one of 
you are always ask yourself that 
question in life yeah right what do I 
really want and if something that you 
really want is finding the cheer pod 
finding love doing things differently 
then you deserve the gift of your own 
time your own effort your own energy 
your own investment to doing this so 
make yourself give yourself the gift of 
your time every day I kind of love this 
this just came to me do you like this 
like giving I'm nodding my head and 
smiling at you because I'm I'm drinking 
the Kool-Aid Bella and yes oh you're 
exactly right and when we're saying give 
yourself the gift of the time make sure 
you're studying reasonable goals so what 
can often happen sometimes even going 
back to the gym analogy is people can 
overdo it jump all in put too much time 
up front and then get fatigued and what 
we want to encourage is good dating 
takes patience 
perseverance and being really positive 
so you have to look at this like you're 
playing the long game so give yourself 
the time but still just spend a small 
amount of time 30 minutes a day dating 
30 minutes a day on the apps and then 
shut it down and then refresh and do it 
again the next day but don't go all in 
and say it's Peak dating season five 
hours every day you are going to burn 
out and that just isn't good for anybody 
consistency is the key here 100 and I 
know as we're we're all talking about 
weight loss right it's like if I vow to 
lose 10 pounds and I go to the gym and I 
eat well one day I'm like why isn't that 
10 pounds gone and I know you're all 
feeling me hard on this one right but 
remember we all have that Amazon Prime 
mentality that as soon as we start to do 
something like Lindsay's saying don't 
spend five hours online don't spend five 
hours at the gym because this is a 
marathon and it's like marathon training 
it's not a Sprint right sometimes it it 
blows my mind that when people do train 
for marathons Lindsay's husband Ryan has 
run a gajillion marathons I have not and 
I never will for them either will I I 
never will either my body would fall 
apart and you know Lindsay and I are 
meant for different things than 
marathons right and that's why we're 
your Marathon Trainers for dating right 
and so really thinking about you know 
when people train for marathons it's 
like a six to eight month training Pro 
program where you're running a little 
bit different every day every week but 
in the dating process we want to get 
online and find love January 12th but 
that's not going to happen here so 
knowing I've got my patients positivity 
and perseverance in mine and I'm going 
to do something every day that's going 
to bring me joy and I'm going to spend a 
little bit of time on the apps but I'm 
playing the long game here I'm not 
expecting instant gratification so these 
are really important things you guys in 
keeping yourself playing the long game 
because let me tell you what dating is 
not a short game no no and as much as we 
wish it could and again you're hearing 
about everybody coming online what we 
don't want to happen is that you start 
feeling we don't want you feeling bad if 
it seems like everybody's online and 
you're not in a relationship by the end 
of January 
there is no pressure your outcome if you 
stick with this you will meet somebody 
great if you stick with it just don't 
give up and we don't know when the lid 
to your pot is coming but if you're 
doing a little bit every single day he 
or she will show up and we promise you 
that and that's one of those things 
where you want to take a minute and step 
back and celebrate small successes so I 
look at it as ever at the end of every 
week just have a moment of reflection 
and say all right what did I do this 
week that I'm really proud of for dating 
how many did I set up my one phone call 
did I have a video date did I get online 
every single day did I give somebody did 
I smile when I was out and just engage 
with people in real life like what did 
you do then take a step back and look at 
at the end of every month what did you 
do that month how many dates did you go 
on the average person's going on one 
date a month if you're going out twice 
every other week hey guess what you are 
doubling that if you're going out every 
single week that's four new people a 
month you calculate that over the year 
like you're doing the things you need to 
do and then giving yourself credit along 
the way so like we want you guys to have 
a little party for yourself at the end 
of every week at the end of every month 
hell at the end of every single day if 
you have to 
just the key is that you don't get 
discouraged 
it's so so true I mean and we've had 
clients saying I've had 80 different 
people I've been messaging I've been on 
40 dates yet and I still haven't found 
someone and we're like and it's okay 
because we're gonna keep running until 
we do so don't discourage yourself 
celebrate yourself instead celebrate the 
things that you did right don't compare 
yourself to others remember comparison 
is the thief of joy 
oh good one okay and then we compare 
ourselves to others when we compare 
ourselves to what we think well it 
happened for my neighbor right away she 
got herself online and met someone a 
week later and now they're in the 
Bahamas for the holidays you know what 
comparison is the thief of Joy send her 
love and her boo love in your heart and 
know that you too are going to find 
someone but don't gauge your own journey 
by anybody else's because someday 
somebody's going to be inspired by your 
journey and go God it happened for her 
him so quickly why not me and you're 
gonna know in your own heart no it 
didn't you just didn't see my whole 
backstory yes yes oh that's such a good 
point and I think you're right and even 
when you can if you feel like everybody 
is going a million dates in the 
beginning of the month or this through 
this winter also recognize that we still 
don't want you to run in in rush things 
if you feel like everybody else is 
moving fast and jumping into 
relationships right away if you've been 
listening to our podcast you know that 
we are slow and steady Eddies we like 
things to evolve we like you to build in 
a lot of time getting to know somebody 
and keeping a good dating pipeline going 
so one of the keys for being successful 
is making sure that you really are 
hedging your bets that you're still that 
you're not jumping into a relationship 
just because this person looks good 
right away but that you're fully vetting 
them and that's one of the biggest 
things that we can do and how we help 
our clients pacing it and making sure 
that we wait to really see who somebody 
is over time that's important that's 
important exactly exactly and you know 
Lindsay let's let's talk a little bit 
about the brass tacks of how we want to 
position ourselves in the next one to 
four weeks about Peak dating season so 
get your notebooks out and I want to 
tell you what couple things and you know 
what maybe you've heard this from us 
before but remember repetition is how we 
absorb information and repetition even 
if you've heard this before remember 
knowledge is not power knowledge without 
action is nothing execution is power so 
I want you to think about number one 
what app or site are you going to quote 
unquote maybe relaunch yourselves or 
launch yourself on so let's talk a 
little bit about that what I want you to 
know is if you're on 678 10 different 
apps right now I want you to consider 
slimming it down lose some weight in 
your dating apps 
strategy is start off slow start off 
maybe with one the max two and then 
after you've worked that for a while 
because anytime that you launch brand 
new on an app that's where you're gonna 
get your profile and your is going to be 
seen the most so you want to capitalize 
on having a really good launch where the 
most people are going to see you and 
then the longer you're on something it's 
almost like you fall a little further 
back in the search so that's a good time 
then to relaunch somewhere else but if 
you start with all six at the same time 
you're going to burn out really quickly 
and then you're not going to feel like 
you have anywhere else to go once 
everything starts to slow down which it 
always does which it does for every 
single person out there that's very 
normal yeah I mean I know it this just 
brings to mind like makeovers I've done 
on set at Steve Harvey on GMA and it's 
amazing to me people will say I'm on 
eight different apps right now and I'm 
like 
think about being on eight different 
anythings if you were on eight different 
weight loss plans like how effective 
would it be it would be like oh my God 
wait I shouldn't eat carbs wait I should 
eat carbs wait I should eat high fat 
weight I should eat low fat you can't 
you'll spin yourself in a circle and 
you'll end up feeling frustrated and 
confused so Focus like anything big in 
life you have to focus on a couple of 
things maybe one or two things in order 
to be able to make any movement on that 
so pick a site or an app that's good in 
your city that's good in your age 
bracket and I can hear your thought 
right now well what is that tell me what 
the secret is well here's the big secret 
and it's a secret you're not going to 
want to hear there is no one perfect 
dating app or one perfect site Lindsay 
right we've had clients yes 
I'm like they're everywhere there's not 
one site where where like we're gonna 
tell you the secret that nobody else 
knows it really is it's really what's 
right for you but we also like to play 
and go where the numbers are the biggest 
so look at the sites that have been 
around the longest I think that's a good 
way to start and look where you can get 
the most information about the person 
that you're dating because I think 
that's an easier way to screen in for 
red flags as well but the key to yes 
something just came to mind 
when you get on a siteorn app 
there's something called anchoring that 
happens in our brains and let's say you 
were on you know 
Bumble okay a year ago and you get on 
Bumble and you start swiping and you're 
like oh my God there's the guy in the 
reindeer antlers he's been on here every 
year with these photos and what happens 
at that point when we see one person 
that we might have seen in the past we 
feel we often feel frustrated 
we feel discouraged we feel like oh my 
god I've run through the inventory 
already it's all the same stuff now is 
that a true thought Lindsay no 
it's actually just the magical way that 
our brains work because we have to sort 
through all of this information and 
stimuli so we notice and remember the 
things that we've seen before and it's 
not true that one guy in Rudolph costume 
whoever it is is not the only dater out 
there in the pool your brain just 
remembered it and then you could just 
move on and find somebody else that 
you've never seen before they're 
everywhere right so when you relaunch 
yourself and you see the guy or the gal 
or a few that you've seen before 
remember oh wait there are 118 million 
single adults in this country so so I 
recognize two that's okay that's okay 
because this is just my brain looking 
for familiarity which again our brains 
want to make us feel comfortable right 
we're like oh I recognize that this is 
safe don't feel like this is going to be 
the same old same old right so don't let 
that happen to your brain now and 
remember the client sorry to interrupt 
this yeah no please do remember a client 
we have we may have talked about this in 
an earlier podcast but she had um she 
relaunched with us on a site and one of 
the guys that wrote her was somebody she 
had seen before when she had been on 
before and she's like oh no no I've 
decided I think he's way too busy for me 
I said well he look at this message I'm 
gonna jump ahead and tell you she is now 
married to this man because she would 
have ignored him because she'd seen him 
before but she didn't really interact 
with them before she just remembered him 
and had that same experience I'm like 
write him again it's a fresh start guys 
this is a reset unless you've had unless 
they have red flags and you've had a bad 
experience just because you've seen them 
before this person keeps writing you 
back and liking you well clearly they're 
liking you for a reason give them a 
chance too if there are no red flags if 
there's no red flags right so 100 you 
never know right we've told I've told 
you guys the story of our client that 
had five good dates with somebody and 
then was ghosted he took her out on her 
birthday and then ghosted her and then 
came back two years later and we slowly 
paced it and they are now happily living 
together because sometimes people 
realize I made a big mistake and I did 
my work and now I'm coming back 
wholeheartedly but if you feel like yeah 
no this person kind of comes back around 
all the time over the holidays we just 
talked about winter coating an X that 
comes back to you around the holidays 
right because they don't want to be 
alone and they want some dates for the 
holidays and they put you on like a 
winter coat and as soon as the weather 
gets warm they shed you again so no to 
your point Lindsay and to what I'm 
saying is 
you never know give someone a chance if 
you're not sure that this person is 
toxic or you're being winter coated give 
something a chance and if you need help 
good Lord reach out to us this is what 
we do every day as we help you to make 
sure something is Savory versus unsavory 
and I'm not talking about salty meat 
saver I'm saying like is this a good 
person or a wolf in sheep's clothing 
and if it's a wolf in sheep's clothing 
delete their like or delete them or hide 
them from search and then just move on 
and focus on all the other millions of 
people that you've never seen or switch 
up your search a little bit so that you 
can restructure how you're looking at 
people change something with your 
profile but yes I know I'm really glad 
that was a really good point I could see 
it in your eyes Bella you're about you 
had you were inspired by an idea I was 
inspired by you Lindsey Anderson oh 
thank you but you're right as you're 
thinking about sites too we should talk 
about photos about yeah let's do that 
important thing go there go there friend 
go there guys the photo is your 
Marketing in cyberspace having excellent 
photos we talk about this all the time 
and I mean it your photos that is what 
is going to get the click it is the most 
important thing that you have great 
photos now we are in the holiday season 
and there's a lot of time where you get 
to put on some sparkle right now or you 
may be dressed up and you're going out 
I'm gonna highly recommend when you are 
dressed in looking your best please 
please please please hand your iPhone or 
your camera phone to anybody have 
somebody take a picture with good 
lighting 
um don't over filter but use portrait 
mode but take pictures of yourself and 
if you are not going to holiday parties 
go through your closet and put on that 
dress you always wish you could wear and 
still have somebody take your picture 
amen sister exactly I've been wearing a 
lot of sequins in the last week or so 
and I I have not had anybody take a 
photo and I probably should because it's 
the we it's it's Sparkle time and yes 
take pictures of yourself right if you 
you can set the timer on your camera 
have good headshots okay now let's kind 
of go there for a second a photos are 
critical and have a good photo of 
yourself that's a good headshot and 
that's some janky old photo that's 
sitting in your iPhone from three or 
four years ago get your face ready men 
and women okay groom it up 
shine it up Sparkle it up you do you boo 
you know how you look good I don't need 
to give you advice on that and make sure 
you're in good lighting one thing that I 
see all the time when I do these online 
profile analysis sessions with people 
they hire us for an hour can you go in 
and look at my profile and give me 
counsel because they might not be ready 
to have full coaching at Great okay most 
people have blurry photos photos that 
are old or photos where they have all 
kinds of Shadows on their face I'm like 
look at the photos that we have on our 
site maybe the spirit will call me to 
post some new photos on our website 
we're going to redo our website in 2023 
and I know you guys one of our goals 
we're working on it it's a huge goal but 
I'll tell you what having good photos 
where you look good and you look like 
the real version of yourself we have a 
zero Photoshop policy at our studio at 
smartdating Academy and for the 
thousands of you that have come to us 
and worked with us and taken photos you 
know that there is Art and Science to 
good photography right so look at our 
site see if you can pull photos that 
look like that if you need help for 
God's sakes reach out there is help and 
remember 
give yourself a gift like you give 
everybody else if you've been listening 
to this podcast all year we're almost at 
our year anniversary of the podcast 
right do something good for yourself 
hire experts it might be us it might be 
somebody else I don't care you do you 
but do something that's going to get you 
to a better place this year invest in 
yourself because the definition of 
insanity keep the same pictures up do 
the same stuff over and over again you 
don't want people recognizing your 
photos this is the perfect time to 
completely if we bring It full circle 
have new photos up so they don't think 
the same thing you're thinking when you 
see the guy in the Rudolph hat and right 
it's that's hilarious if you can see my 
face I'm like inhaling oxygen around 
that you don't want to be oh there's 
that woman in the purple sweater again 
yes there she is with their Green 
Earrings like I remember that nope yeah 
yeah let's just pass her bye but the key 
with the photos is approachability and 
we see this too when we do the online 
Photo Labs of so many pictures of people 
wanting to look 
mysterious or sexy and they're pouting 
or they're looking a little bit off to 
the side or they're looking away the 
keys you want to look directly at the 
camera you want to connect with the 
person who's looking at your photo and 
please smile and show your teeth show 
your teeth and smile be warm I'm online 
with our clients every single day going 
through inboxes there are not enough men 
who smile in photos I'm gonna just put 
that out there guys if you're a 
gentlemen did you hear that say it again 
I will tell you the photos our clients 
connect with are the ones where men look 
happy warm safe confident there are so 
many things that come from a smile it's 
the it tells a million different things 
so you want to attract a happy positive 
person into your life you have to be 
that happy positive person in your 
photos do not try to be too sexy don't 
pout 
smile worm smile big look like you are 
smiling at your favorite person on Earth 
and take a picture 
and 
all the research shows that we don't 
pick the best photos of ourselves 
when you take all of the tips that 
Lindsay just gave you 
I would love for you to commit to 
yourself that you are going to take your 
new photos 
and have someone else 
tell you someone that isn't like oh 
honey everything you do is spectacular 
and they never say you know I don't 
think that's the best photo of you have 
your friends better elevator people that 
you love they're in your village that 
also will tell you the honest truth is 
that photo flattering right there are 
times Lindsay and I can we get our 
photos taken and she might say to me I 
hate that photo of myself and I'm like 
no you're like I'm posting it right now 
on our site don't sing it anyway and 
she's like I hate that photo I'm like 
you remember we don't look at ourselves 
in a fair light or more importantly in 
the light that others see us so have 
someone else say that's actually the 
better photo of you because you might be 
looking at some Freckle on your arm that 
no one in the world sees or something on 
your cheek 
everybody's so critical of themselves 
and you we don't want you don't look at 
yourself with a critical mindset too 
100 I'm in our photo studio a lot with 
our clients that come in to work with us 
and I'm not always there but I'm there a 
good amount of time and I can tell you 
everybody's picking apart different 
things in themselves oh my God my legs 
are too white I should have gotten a 
spray tan I'm like your legs look 
amazing I would love to take your legs 
and put them on my body right it's all 
don't pick yourself apart but have great 
photos and please pick new photos of 
yourself change them up because it's the 
new year and why not take some new 
photos of yourself and show someone else 
the photos right and have a good wide 
repertoire don't give someone six photos 
of yourself and say well I need to post 
six photos are these good enough people 
if you're gonna give people choices you 
need to give them more if you want to 
post six photos and six by the way is 
the ideal amount of photos to have 
posted now don't get daunted by that 
don't throw your arms up in the air and 
say well how am I supposed to get six 
new photos you know what everything is 
possible and if you really want to you 
can dress yourself up and say different 
outfits take photos have someone take 
them of you call us we'll get you into 
the photo studio whatever it is 
everything is possible but don't if you 
can get one or two new photos that's 
better than that's great too absolutely 
and make sure and I'll leave with the 
headshots that you do have a good full 
body shots head to toe people do want to 
date who they see in the photos so 
however whatever you do however you wear 
your hair or your glasses just wear 
whatever it is you're how you're going 
to show up on a date look like that 
person in your photos but have fun with 
it 
over the holidays this is a great time 
to take all these pictures get yourself 
ready spruce up your profile think about 
fun things that you did last year little 
weight highlights things that you can 
tweak that you're gonna write be 
positive in what you put out there too 
but remember the photos are first people 
like they go especially well women like 
to analyze the profiles if I'm gonna 
just generalize guys this is not true 
for everybody but we read the profiles 
and analyze who the person is and a lot 
of the men just look at the pictures and 
then skim your profile to make sure you 
sound nice and normal 
that's kind of the way to look at it 
loosely 
exactly and along with that you know 
people will look at photos and we're all 
visual right Lindsay I mean our female 
clients look at male men's photos 
sometimes Grimace like oh my God who 
told this person this was a good photo 
right we all no more fish photos guys no 
more bathroom selfies we've seen it all 
and people just don't know what to do so 
when you look at photos look at it with 
radical empathy like oh bless their 
heart they just didn't know better and 
and move on but 
because with be kind number one be kind 
to yourself be kind to others and when 
you're writing your profile think about 
the little one sentence stories that 
will give somebody food for thought 
about yourself and I've done a lot of 
sessions in the last week with people 
that overthink their profiles well I 
don't know if I want to put that detail 
in there right like I don't know that 
that's like the best thing about me and 
I'm saying I don't real I'm not bothered 
if it tells the full story about you 
because 200 words can never tell the 
full story about you two hours with you 
will never tell the full story about you 
so you want to pick interesting things 
think about your profile as if I had you 
make a top 10 funny quirky things list 
about Lindsay or Bella what would go on 
that list things people might not know 
about me or things that are actually 
interesting that other people haven't 
done that that's how I want you to think 
about your profile and put on position 
starters those kinds of things like 
would you ever think someone who's my 
size you know five two and a half right 
small human small skeleton has taken 
motorcycle riding lessons no you would 
not think that would you ever think that 
I decided one day that I wanted to take 
a flying lesson and I made Andy go with 
me as my co-pilot along with somebody at 
Pewaukee airport no you might go wait 
who's taking flying lessons and who's 
taking motorcycle lessons and almost had 
a permit thank God I found out I was 
pregnant with Jaden and that whole 
motorcycle thing had to be put to bed 
but right you might not know that about 
me but that would be an interesting 
little bit to put in your online profile 
right and Lindsay I'm sure you have 
those fun quirky little things like 
you're a helicopter skier yes 
and there's and I do remember the list 
that came out when Facebook first 
launched a million years ago and 
everybody created the list of 20 things 
about me no one knows 
and then once you start writing a few of 
those it sort of leads to the next so do 
that own version of yourself over the 
holidays just start jotting notes down I 
always have my best thinking when I'm 
blow drying my hair so I keep a bit of 
paper in your body or an iPhone Notes 
but think about as little things come to 
mind jot them down and keep a list and 
you can refresh them but it's really 
conversation starters somebody does not 
need to know your whole life story 
but the profile really does need to be 
about you and then a little bit about 
who you want to meet but the whole 
profile shouldn't be all about 
everything that you want in your future 
person make sure it stays balanced with 
what you write and have fun with it and 
keep it positive and don't put any 
disclaimers at the bottom don't contact 
me if you better look like your pictures 
like none of that guys 
eliminate it because it won't reflect as 
well on you as we think and sometimes we 
want to over correct if we've had 
experiences online before by thinking we 
need to write all the things we don't 
want don't do it don't do it as I saying 
don't write the don'ts don't do the 
don'ts don't do the don'ts I don't do 
the don't don't do the don'ts and and 
have somebody read your profile for your 
tone yes guys tone is so undervalued in 
life okay especially in writing your 
tone carries through 
and many times when we write we go a 
little tone deaf 
or we write quickly in the middle of a 
work day or we don't think about the 
written word people don't hear your 
voice so they interpret whatever it is 
that they're going throughout that time 
with whatever they receive so this goes 
the same for messaging when you are 
messaging back and forth online at an 
exclamation point at don't over Emoji 
don't over smiley face but find ways to 
elevate the tone and look like you're an 
enthusiastic positive person don't write 
one word answers like okay or if he asks 
you out or she asks you on a date don't 
say that sounds good period period 
because everybody wants to date somebody 
who's excited to meet them and when 
you're exchanging messages especially 
once it moves to text messages 
a good way is keep conversation going 
answer with enthusiasm or ask questions 
at the end of your text messages so it's 
a volley back and forth until it goes on 
too long that you can say well really 
enjoy talking with you let's connect 
again tomorrow and then close the chat 
but make sure that your tone comes 
across sometimes if you just read what 
you write out loud to yourself and you 
say it out loud you hear how it might 
come across to others so sometimes you 
might want to reread your own messages 
before you hit send 
100 percent and on that note also when 
you read someone's messages that might 
seem cold Curt abrasive ask yourself 
could this be my filter 
could I be reading this message with the 
tone that wasn't intended 
I do this a lot I will put on a filter 
where I'll read someone's message I'm 
like oh that seemed a little short 
don't do that change your own mindset 
and no I know this person they didn't 
mean that right and if you didn't know 
if you don't know this person give them 
radical empathy and the benefit of the 
doubt they just don't know better and 
they're not wearing your filter so put 
on a different filter when you're 
reading so you want to be the positive 
person but then when you're getting the 
messages 
give somebody the positive filter when 
you're reading their messages okay so I 
think what we want to write in 
skywriting as you're starting the dating 
in this new in the new year is assume 
positive intent assume best intention 
with everything that you do assume it 
when you're looking at their pictures 
online and their profile assume it when 
you're getting that message assume it 
when they're asking you everybody it 
takes a lot of effort and we have 
tremendous empathy it is very brave to 
put yourself on a dating site and every 
single person who's doing it has good 
intentions and I'm telling you there are 
more good daters out there there are 
more good people out there than bad The 
Bad 
really they just make for good stories 
so you might hear those but that's not 
the reality of what we're seeing but I 
love what you're saying that when you 
get a message that might seem a little 
short to look at it through a different 
lens because people's people are good 
people are good everybody yeah and 
nobody means to be that way I know Jaden 
my daughter and I were texting about a 
month ago and she was asking me some 
questions about dating actually and I 
was messaging her back and she said to 
me on Sunday she's like 
are you mad at me like no why she says 
well I just saw your responses and they 
weren't your normal responses my own 
daughter 
asked me if I was mad at her I'm like no 
why and so again was it the way I was 
messaging her or could it have been her 
filter most likely maybe it was some of 
both and I took I said you know what I'm 
really sorry that was so not my 
intention I'm not mad at you at all but 
I'm sorry that I my words made you feel 
that way she's like it's okay and maybe 
I just read it with the wrong eyes right 
take responsibility especially even if 
my intentions weren't that way own your 
stuff yeah 
oh that's such a good point 
so our moods are well yeah listen 
with Peak dating season 
you've got you know two out of three 
Queen psychotic optimists here and we 
Eileen we have you here in spirit with 
us what we want you to know is 
if you feel called to it please reach 
out to us sometimes people think that 
we're they're in an echo chamber and 
we're on some Mountaintop really high 
somewhere and we're inaccessible and 
we're just this voice that comes through 
your air pods or through your iPad or 
passing you in the park when you don't 
have messages when you don't have 
sunglasses and a hat on and you're 
running we're accessible people and we 
have an accessible service and if we can 
help you to 
change your mindset get you better 
photos have some eyes on your profile to 
see that it sounds like you or more 
importantly if you need a personal 
trainer for your love life I'm telling 
you there's no one better and there's no 
one more fun to do this with than with 
us so if you're listening to this 
take a deep breath 
tell yourself I'm worth it I deserve it 
send an email and at least explore how 
we could help you or how somebody could 
help you maybe it's a therapist maybe 
it's whomever do something for yourself 
because you are a gift to the world and 
you deserve all the things that you give 
to others so I wish you only things that 
are good I hope that Lindsay and I get 
to know so many of you during Peak 
dating season because you want the help 
in this process that thousands of you 
have reached out for we're here we're 
not you know are you there God it's me 
no we're here we're real people in the 
flesh in the blood that will keep you on 
the ground boots on the ground doing the 
right thing and staying positive through 
the process yeah encouraging you every 
step of the way really so with that I we 
wish you well we wish you big love this 
week and until next week 
um 
get yourself ready for Peak dating 
season do the right things and we're 
sending you a giant cyber hug because 
I'm really proud of you for thinking 
about being prepared for Peak dating 
season which officially starts December 
26th the busiest online dating date is 
January 8th so ladies and gentlemen get 
it together get your big boy in big girl 
pants on and say I want love for the new 
year and what is something I'm going to 
do for myself every single day to get 
closer to that so with that until next 
week we send you a giant cyber hug mwah 
mwah goodbye goodbye 


denial is a big part of trauma not 
getting real it's big stuff in your face 
or maybe it's just hidden and there's a 
lot of denial and sugar coating and not 
being real either way the nervous system 
doesn't like it the body doesn't like it 
and that's how I raise my kids now I'm 
always real it's important to be real so 
you separate it so they don't take on 
the stress of mom and dad a great tool 
for people to use right away what am I 
learning from this situation when 
something not good happens whether or 
not it's dating or a relationship what 
is this showing me what is this about me 
it's okay we all go through this and you 
know some people don't like necessarily 
the Law of Attraction some love it it's 
it's very similar to that if we're 
resonating with so much love and 
self-respect and self-love and self-care 
which are the tools the world starts 
showing us that so that you dear 
listener can create the life that you 
dream of and that you want 


the no contact rule for me I think 
there's a lot of parallels between 
getting over a partner and getting sober 
from a substance the more people I've 
interviewed on the podcast experts in 
Neuroscience the two are very similar 
it's you're getting over an addiction a 
lot of people are addicted to Partners 
so you have to go through this detoxing 
process and I see so many people who 
stay in contact with their ex and 
they're just never able to fully get 
over them so the no contact rule is you 
don't have any contact with your ex you 
don't talk to them you don't text with 
them you definitely you don't see them 
because every time you do that you 
almost have to think of starting this 
detox process all over again your brain 
has to adjust to this person not being 
in your life there's a reason why so 
many people break up get back together 
break up get back together it's because 
they're trying to act like they're still 
in the relationship even though they're 
not 


I've had two very amicable divorces 
that's what I say you know we'll go our 
separate ways I wasn't interested in 
dating for years I was just I was tired 
I was tired of working so much I had 
grieved the losses of a first divorce 
that was devastating the childless thing 
that was beyond what I could even 
comprehend but working through that and 
then Co happened that's when I first 
heard Bella and I was like oh my gosh 
this lady is amazing I loved your energy 
I loved what you were saying it was was 
just like clicking and I thought okay I 
need to dig into everything Bella Smart 
dating Academy I can find then after 
dating for a year and having a couple 
relationships during that time I'm like 
I just need to like do it I am ready I'm 
going to spend the money sign up and do 
all of this work it was the best thing 
and Bella and eileene it's because of 
you to learn so much more 


what are the steps that you would take 
somebody through the foundation of that 
approach is lifestyle because it does 
not matter what else you do if your 
lifestyle is a mess you know we have 
talked our brains into believing that 
you know oh I'm not stressed I'm fine 
but our bodies are telling us a 
completely different story so when 
you're having symptoms that is your body 
asking for help supplements are used as 
support while you are getting your 
lifestyle in order they are not the 
Magic Bullet especially in postmenopause 
I work with someone's physician because 
I can't write prescriptions to get 
bioidentical hormones implemented if 
that's appropriate not everybody wants 
to go that route but there are a number 
of women that do and there's an 
increasing body of evidence that's 
coming out about how beneficial hormone 
replacement can be for bone health brain 
health and cardiovascular 
health 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back happy Monday 
I'm so excited for so many reasons 
today's episode is your favorite it's a 
love story episode from someone who is 
one of my favorites 
um it's a former client current married 
person and current friend 
Holly Capps who is now Holly Capps Casey 
because y'all I want to tell you Holly 
just got married June 10th and she's 
going to tell you the story of how she 
started with one of our love labs and is 
now Holly caps Casey here married here 
to tell you her story and make sure if 
you haven't been following us to know 
that we are doing a dating over 50 love 
lab on Sunday July 16th 1 to 4 P.M 
they're small groups they're amazing 
they're so warm supportive full of 
information 
and with an hour of q a at the end so 
Holly will tell you about her experience 
at the love lab but with no further Ado 
number one get your spot in dating over 
50 and number two give Holly a very warm 
welcome Holly it's so good to have you 
here thank you Bella it's so nice to be 
here oh my gosh well we've got to say 
we're going from podcast to podcast with 
bookend stories aren't we we are we 
definitely are yeah because 
um I think when my my story will come 
full circle because I heard about you on 
a podcast that's what brought me to your 
love lab to start out with so and here 
we are at the end of the story after 
I've gotten married on the podcast oh my 
gosh that's why I was like oh wouldn't 
be a good idea for you since you heard 
me on a podcast in the love lab came to 
our process and now you're married to 
bookend it with a podcast to tell your 
story so Holly tell us a little bit you 
are you know kind of give us General 
demographics you're 56 I thought you 
were like 46 but you are so sweet 
that's why we're friends that is why 
we're friends you guys 
I'm 56 I live in Atlanta 
um 
I retired at the end of last year but 
had a really great career 
um a corporate career mostly in sales 
um 
fantastic career frankly um in sales uh 
leadership uh long very busy very high 
powered career you can say hi to my dog 
who's shaking around behind me 
um and lots of travel lots of uh lots of 
time spent making money and leading 
teams and doing all sorts of things for 
um big companies and so um two years ago 
I decided it was time to invest in 
myself oh I love that and I mean listen 
to that guys elected retirement at 55 
that's a pretty badass career so not 
normal so congratulations to you on your 
accomplishments yeah you worked really 
hard to get to where you are and you 
started dating when you were in the 
midst of your badass career so maybe we 
can do just set the stage for us and 
tell us a little bit about you growing 
up like give us a little bit of 
background and then we're just going to 
let you tell your story okay great so um 
I grew up in a very I would say healthy 
happy family my mom and dad met in 
college and fell in love as a matter of 
fact they're 64th wedding anniversary is 
coming up up on July 11th so a great 
example for my sister and I yeah great 
partners and um always were we were 
really close family of four 
um and so you know as far as I could see 
love happened like it did in the movies 
right you know Girl Meets Boy they fall 
in love they live happily ever after 
pretty much magical right that's pretty 
much all I knew right so 
um as a result of that I guess I never 
did date well somehow my sister learned 
how to date she dated all through high 
school had you know dated different guys 
and did like what you were supposed to 
do but for some reason I just never 
picked that up well so my my Mo was more 
that I would Pine for somebody until 
they finally asked me out then by the 
time we went out I was completely over 
him and my mother would have to talk me 
into actually going out on the date so I 
really didn't have any steady boyfriends 
didn't really experience any of that in 
high school so I did slay slightly 
better than that my freshman year in 
college I went out with people maybe 
once or twice but that was about it 
my sophomore year my friends had a 
friend of theirs from high school that 
had moved up and transferred to Texas A 
M where I went to college and so I met 
him very attracted to him we started 
dating 
um and 10 years later we got married so 
he was my first long-term boyfriend and 
we got married so I was very quickly 
attached to him and that was it oh wow 
so that's amazing I think I might not 
have remembered that important little 
detail that that was he was your first 
serious boyfriend that became your 
husband 
right with zero practice I might add so 
um didn't go particularly well because 
you know didn't again have a lot of 
knowledge about what I was getting into 
so 10 years after we were married we 
ended up getting divorced he didn't have 
a particularly healthy family of origin 
um and never really wanted to be married 
um I'd sort of talked him into it and 
and by the the 10 years into our 
marriage he had pretty much given up so 
that was my signal that it was you know 
okay you know again my example was you 
got married you stayed married so I was 
intending to be married for life but 
once given up it really was my trigger 
to say okay well there's nothing I can't 
hold it together all by myself it's time 
to give up and go on so at that point 
then I'm well into my 30s and I'm single 
and I still have zero functional dating 
experience right I still don't know any 
more than I knew at 16 years old about 
how to date and find an appropriate 
person to be with let me ask you Holly 
so this and your story is so many 
people's stories right you're it's so 
relatable Mom and Dad great they met in 
college they got married they make it 
work it's not perfect you see this 
wonderful role model and you're like 
okay I'm in college and here's my person 
and now it's time to get out of the game 
of musical chairs and let's get married 
and this is what people do and they they 
make it work now and clearly that wasn't 
the case here not because of anything 
that you did right just we didn't we 
were never taught how to date we were 
never taught how to pick people right 
and the assumption is okay you're going 
to be a good person for me because this 
is what happened to my parents in 
retrospect did you see you mentioned the 
word narcissist did you see red flags in 
the beginning 
I didn't see them looking back I can see 
a whole host of them what I saw were 
um there were things that he didn't have 
like like again his family wasn't stable 
um he was a good person but didn't have 
good examples to follow in right and so 
um you know he didn't necessarily 
believe that marriage was for a lifetime 
because he didn't see that in his what 
his mother's choices had been so he 
didn't have stability and he didn't have 
a stable home life well my parents even 
as in-laws could give him some of that 
so I saw all these opportunities that I 
could give him things that he didn't 
have and so it made me feel needed and 
it also made me feel like I could help 
him in ways that you know were great 
well that's awesome but you can't save 
somebody in areas that they don't 
necessarily need to be or want to be 
saved right and they don't even know 
that they need saving right right you 
got have all of it need want and 
awareness yeah so it's kind of lacking 
in all of them 
exactly 
so you're together now and so it was 10 
years of marriage no six years of 
marriage well no it was 10 it was 10 
years of dating then 10 years of 
marriage and then we got divorced holy 
cow okay so we actually haven't gotten 
to the narcissist yet he comes later oh 
geez Louise so and here I am pressing 
fast forward as usual so so wow okay so 
this is like more than half your life is 
with this person at this point wow okay 
and he's just like guess what we're done 
and you're like oh my god wow and you're 
back at the drawing board right yep 
so I I did what you know I knew how to 
do which was sort of for the next 20 
years I repeated the same pattern which 
was I would start to date I'd meet 
somebody that I was interested in that I 
was attracted to and then I had stopped 
seeing anybody else because I'm a one 
guy girl right and I always sort of saw 
that as a point of pride in that you 
know what I feel what I feel and I feel 
it strongly so as soon as I feel that 
attachment that's I'm all in right I'm 
gonna go after that relationship and 
then I'm gonna give it everything I've 
got well then when that one didn't work 
then I'd you know sit there and figure 
out okay well why didn't that one work 
and I'd figure out you know I always 
believe everything happens for a reason 
so I'd figure out whatever lesson it was 
I was supposed to learn and try not to 
repeat that's that same mistake the next 
time take a break figure when I'd be 
ready to to get back in the game regroup 
and then start that same cycle over 
again and to learn the next lesson 
wow and so it said and sometimes to your 
point and I have so much empathy for 
this because this is again the story of 
so many people we end up going well last 
time this guy was so and so and so next 
time I'm never doing that again and 
sometimes we over correct for things 
that weren't the root cause in the first 
place 
that's exactly right and I mean you 
can't guess all the mistakes that are 
out there to make I mean there's an 
infinite number of them and I guess 
that's that's then the next chapter of 
the next story which is 
um that you know again after one of my 
one year breaks of you know being sort 
of self-indulgent and just being like I 
just want to be alone and do what I want 
to do and then you get to that point 
where you're like okay no I'm ready 
ready for love again I'm gonna look 
again then I met a guy who I really 
found he was fun he was adventurous he 
like loved to do the same thing I love 
to do and I really felt like he was the 
one like I'd finally found the guy who 
won yeah he was great to me he was 
Charming he was adventurous he was 
handsome life was exciting life was fun 
there were some things that it's like 
you know he wasn't necessarily great to 
everybody else in his life but he was 
always great to me and six and a half 
years flew by I mean things were just 
going really really well we were getting 
to that point where he'd always said 
once this happens and once this happens 
then we'll talk about getting married we 
were getting to that point and then all 
of a sudden he just like changed 
overnight I mean it was abrupt and he I 
will never forget we went to dinner one 
night and he spent two and a half hours 
berating me over dinner I mean it was 
like a sign of this personality I had 
never seen before and over the next I 
don't know 12 hours he dumped me and I 
was absolutely shocked and I mean 
shocked because up until that point 
everything went fantastic six and a half 
years six and a half of course well and 
and what you come to realize is that 
it's never as black and white as you 
think it is right where you know like 
I'm a complete victim and I'm completely 
shocked well when you step back and I 
had some therapy afterwards it helped me 
see I had been dating a narcissist and I 
had never known a narcissist I'd never 
known what a narcissist was and so when 
I looked back there was a host of red 
flags and I mean bright red flags and I 
should have seen them but I didn't I 
ignored him because it's that old thing 
when somebody's rude to a waiter you 
better notice because whatever they're 
doing the other people they're gonna do 
to you they just haven't done it yet and 
so try as hard as this guy might because 
he really is a good guy he couldn't get 
away from all of those patterns that 
were inside of him and So eventually it 
came around and it happened to me so it 
was as much my fault as anybody else's 
but it also helped me 
sort of left me in that place where it 
said all right well there's a narcissist 
is one psychological challenge I never 
knew anything about how many other ones 
are there out there that I'm gonna have 
to be an expert in so that I could spot 
those so I don't waste another five to 
ten years of my life and then get 
surprised by somebody else's issues 
right you're like wow that was brutal 
are there 11 more of these things that 
I'm gonna have to experience no thank 
you all right 
oh my gosh so what happened then so now 
you're aware you become aware of wow the 
this was a full-blown narcissist I 
missed the red flags so now you're 
sitting there what happens next and how 
old were you at this point so then I was 
probably approached I was late 40s okay 
um yeah and so then 
um I took a break 
um maybe I was even early 50s that was 
probably early 50s so 
um I took another year break because it 
seems to me a year is about my time 
where it's like oh I gotta take a breath 
right and it sort of resettled myself 
um and then covet happened so we all 
took a break and 
um 
during covid that year time sort of 
passed and I and I could feel myself 
being ready like to open myself back up 
and um you know as I was sitting at my 
kitchen counter doing paint by numbers 
um listening to podcasts uh one of the 
podcasts I had stumbled on was 
um this is 50 and that was Nancy holla 
and Sherry Salata and it was two ladies 
in their 50s ex talking about all kinds 
of things that that obviously felt very 
right to me because I was in my early 
50s too and one of the things they were 
talking about was dating and so I found 
it very interesting and that's when they 
were talking about you and what you do 
and that's when that piqued my interest 
and I became aware of the love lab and 
of your coaching and of Smart dating 
Academy 
okay wow so it's Nancy holla 
um Sherry Salada and so now you are on 
our list and you see an email come 
through for the love lab is that what 
happened yeah well I did some reason 
because I was listening to them on the 
podcast and you were helping Nancy so I 
got some familiarity about what you did 
and how that all worked and it sounded 
like fun right and I could hear how you 
interacted with her and I thought well 
that sounds cool and then I did some 
research about you know what else you 
did and you know the love lab in 
particular and I really did seem like a 
good way to get back into the online 
world because I think everybody that's 
done the online side knows how daunting 
it is to start right to sit down and 
write a profile is like sitting down to 
write your resume it's just painful I 
mean there's nothing worse than talking 
about yourself for all the world to see 
and especially your romantic self 
um and so I know looking it up and and 
seeing that you helped with not only 
profile writing but figuring out what 
pictures what your pictures should be 
what they should look like all of that 
kind of stuff that really appealed to me 
because none of those things were things 
I knew much about and I knew I needed 
some help so that was my first step was 
I signed up for the love lab I went 
through that and the approach to writing 
the profile was probably my favorite 
thing but I also walked out of the love 
lab with a whole list of things 
um that that really did inform how I was 
going to go into getting back online and 
and kind of approaching the whole thing 
with a clean slate and feeling positive 
about it 
I love that all right so 
so what happened what happened after you 
did the love lab so you're all fired up 
you're like I got I've got all this 
information I've just been on this three 
hour session you feel great you're 
riding the high then what happens 
so I go out I get a photographer to take 
my pictures my profile look great I felt 
really good I felt like it reflected my 
authentic personality which I felt great 
about 
um and then shortly so I get my profile 
all up shortly thereafter 
um I had a family week at the beach and 
so I'm sitting with my mom and my sister 
of course my sister's also happily 
married she's been married for like 30 
years as well 
um and so they're fascinating my mom's 
thrilled right that I'm gonna do this so 
they're fascinated to see all the guys 
on the site so so we're going through 
and I let them each pick two guys for me 
to reach out to and it took them forever 
to find two guys they felt like were 
appropriate and they'd find one then 
they'd one of the guys that were like oh 
this guy looks perfect and we're looking 
through the pictures and we zoom in on 
one of the pictures and I'm like looking 
at there's a name tag I'm like this guy 
works on my team we need to use this guy 
so I mean 
forever to find two that they each felt 
like okay this is a good guy that you 
should go after so the process they 
earned a new appreciation for exactly 
how hard this is and it also underscored 
for me that nobody in my circle really 
understood or was going through what I 
was trying to do because when you're in 
your 50s the circle of people that are 
out trying to date is very small because 
most of my friends and my you know my 
mom my sister when they had dated it was 
back in their 20s or you know a long 
time ago and so it's all changed a lot 
since then so 
part of what I was doing was I was 
trying to make sure that I was following 
what I'd learned which was I needed to 
talk to all types of guys not just the 
usual ones that I would think was 
retractive not skipping steps so first I 
you know you do the chat on the site and 
then that goes to a phone call and then 
after you've had a phone call which 
screens out many of the crazies then you 
go to a video chat and then after a 
video chat then you go to him in person 
so I was doing all of that and so my 
your first in-person Meetup was lunch 
with a guy who admittedly was not one 
that I would normally have been 
attracted to but was this one of the 
guys that your mom and your sister 
picked it was not it was a different 
okay 
so but um but there were some things 
that I found interesting about him and I 
thought you know what hey we're gonna 
try it it's different right so we meet 
up for lunch and it is clear within the 
first 10 minutes it is not a match I 
mean the fact that I already knew that 
he was genetically predisposed to have 
an excessive amount of earwax during a 
lunch date 
yeah it just wasn't gonna work so but I 
was gonna try and be out front exactly I 
was going to try and be upfront and 
honest right and when he was very direct 
and so when he said 
do you want to see me again I was direct 
back and honestly explained that while I 
was enjoying our conversation I just 
wasn't feeling a romantic connection so 
thank you but no so I then spent the 
next 30 minutes trying to extricate 
myself from that table from ear wax he 
was still arguing with me as to why I 
should see him again as I was shutting 
my car door to leave the restaurant it 
was a nightmare so it was on my drive 
home that I realized I really didn't 
want to do this on my own that I needed 
some reinforcements and one of my 
strengths is knowing what I don't know 
and I do not know how to date 
successfully and I don't know how to 
enjoy dating it scares the hell out of 
me and so I really knew I wanted more 
help from Smart dating Academy and from 
you than just the love lab oh my gosh so 
now I'm I'm guessing you emailed me and 
said hey 
remember me like I'd like to hop on 
board so yes I think I did that 
afternoon as a matter of fact right like 
okay we're right so after you were in 
the love lab you're like okay this is a 
close little cocoon they're fun it'll be 
fun I don't want to go at this alone so 
smart it's like hiring it's like you 
know I can go to the gym and try to drop 
20 pounds and I can run on the treadmill 
and if I'm not getting the results I 
want let's bring in someone who can get 
to know me and really assess like a 
personal trainer would who I am who I 
need to be with not just who I want to 
be with and then help me to get there 
exactly well and I mentioned earlier 
that um I had a long corporate career 
and I ended my career as a senior vice 
president and along the way I was lucky 
enough to have a company that invested a 
lot in me and one of the things they did 
for me was I had an executive coach that 
worked with me several times and that 
investment I mean that gave me 
exponential 
um increases in my leadership and not 
only changed my career but also my my 
personal life right it really did expand 
who I was as a person so to me the value 
of Executive coaching is absolutely 
Priceless and so to me this is Executive 
coaching for your life right and it this 
this was the moment that I said to 
myself you know what I am worth 
investing in for myself because this is 
a part of my life I don't know how to do 
this and I'm I'm either going to keep 
floundering along doing whatever I do 
and learn learning about random 
psychological conditions as I go or I'm 
going to go to an expert that can help 
actually make this fun and help me take 
a stab at doing this a different way and 
get something better out of it than I've 
been getting all the way along and so 
that's what I did 
I love that I remember our first three 
hour jump start session so well that was 
you know our goal is to wrap you in pink 
sparkly bubble wrap through the process 
I'm like well we're gonna try to help 
you find love we're also going to 
protect you from the 21 different 
maladies that you need to know out there 
right and it's the we have lists of red 
flags right that you're gonna see by 
phase of dating and we took you through 
the whole marriage map process and 
helped you define who your high GHQ guy 
is so after that three hour session 
you're feeling pretty 
yeah how did you feel I feel great I 
mean I felt yeah you feel like you have 
your Posse right that's gonna help you 
look out it's gonna help look out for 
you I also think the biggest thing for 
me right is 
um I'm very goal oriented right and I 
love I like you know you set up the 
goals and I'll knock them down right and 
generally I can figure out a way to get 
there but I can't I can't ingest 
everything all at once right so it's 
that whole like how do you eat an 
elephant one bite at its time you guys 
are the expert and I think the thing I 
like the most was the process was like 
you know the whole process and you fed 
it to me as I needed to right so I 
didn't have to learn the 85 red flags I 
learned them as we went right you would 
tell me a few and ahead of time and then 
like I'd work with Lindsay every week 
right and she'd go into my inbox and 
look and she'd be like oh you see how 
that says that in this little chat thing 
you don't want to touch that and here's 
why and it's like oh okay well yeah I 
wouldn't so the next time I saw that I 
already knew that right but it was like 
you learn as you go and it really did 
help build up a lot of knowledge as 
opposed to just trying to memorize a 
list and then going trying to go out and 
and you know because you can read all 
kinds of books you can read all kinds of 
articles but it's really having the 
um somebody sit side by side with you 
and helps you see that see that do you 
see how he answered that do you see how 
he didn't answer that and like after 
every date the debrief they would say 
okay so what did he say how did he 
answer that did you get an answer to 
this and then really saying like I can 
remember us talking about David and her 
saying okay he's he's actually doing 
what he says he's doing and she's 
picking up on patterns that I'm not even 
thinking about because I'm like he's so 
cute right and she's like yeah but he's 
doing what he says he's going to do and 
you know he's never making you wonder 
and she's pointing out things that it's 
like oh yeah he is you're right he's 
doing all the things I wanted him to do 
oh my gosh well let's I love that and 
let's take a step back so you I remember 
being in your inbox with you I know 
Lindsay was in your inbox with you and 
you had a great response online and we 
would go through person by person and we 
would look at reading the profiles 
reading the messages who was good who 
wasn't good who we were gonna A-list who 
we were gonna be list right and this is 
how we right and this is how we keep 
people from getting overwhelmed because 
when you get a big response many are not 
appropriate right maybe not I think I 
don't think we had another earwax 
repetitor so thank goodness I found that 
one On My Own by the way yeah 
you're like high five that was all me 
thanks that was all so much for that but 
you know ultimately you had a lot of 
interest and you had a lot of dates and 
then and then there was this interesting 
guy David and you had you had some you 
had interesting people like let's talk 
about that in the beginning and then get 
to David yeah so I will say like 
um 
the the way you worked me through the 
process that I found really helpful was 
you didn't let me get attached too soon 
um and like I will say one of my 
favorite artifacts which I have right 
here with me is my little notebook and I 
had a page for every guy that I was 
communicating with so I could remember 
Salient points so then I could go back 
and have the right conversation with the 
right people uh but yeah there were lots 
of guys to choose from and having 
different dates and having you guys have 
helped me focus on okay so this is date 
one with David I want you to go and have 
fun and just see what you see right you 
know be the the bright fun you and see 
how he is and then we'll come back and 
for day two we'll talk about what that 
looks like and it really did help me get 
to know people at the right pace and not 
put too much into a date and try and get 
too far too soon 
um um and also not 
it made sure I stayed on Pace and kept 
comparing and kept the all the you know 
kept the options open I guess longer 
than I would have normally for sure 
right it's like having that funnel right 
yes yeah which ironically it is funny 
because I had a career in sales right 
and in in sales you always have a funnel 
right how many times have I coached 
sales people and having a funnel and yet 
for dating I never had a funnel you have 
to have a funnel it's got to be wide at 
the entrance and it gets narrowed down 
at the at the close but you gotta have a 
funnel 
yeah 100 so you learn how to navigate 
and again you know people we all think 
oh I know what a narcissist is I've read 
a book and I know you know what an 
avoidant is I've run attached and here 
like Holly saying you guys it's being in 
the arena at that moment where you don't 
know okay is this something or is this 
not and sometimes you're so used to red 
flags and your your skin is so thick 
because you've been with so many 
narcissists that you don't even feel the 
red flags you might know oh X is a red 
flag but you don't perceive that as a 
red flag in the moment and that's why 
we're there going yeah no see this this 
is not a good thing and so so we we let 
certain people in and we let certain 
people out and then there was a certain 
man named David who 
came into your inbox tell us about that 
and he was cute he was very cute I 
remember 
um it was funny because I had flipped 
through and that was the day that 
Lindsay was going through my inbox with 
me 
um and I had flipped through and I'd 
seen him I was like oh he's cute and so 
I had already thought well I'm going to 
respond to him but she gets on there and 
she's like oh he looks nice you should 
respond to him I was like oh good I was 
going to anyway yeah 
but 
in common and um 
from the first date it was very easy 
conversation and I found him very 
interesting and 
um one of my favorite things about 
working with y'all and especially in 
regards to him was that 
um as I learned more about him and I 
would come back and I would report back 
because I always had an assignment every 
every meeting I left I had an assignment 
and so and I followed directions right 
if you're gonna sure do then by God do 
what they tell you to do and so every 
time I would come back and I would have 
done my homework and so if that meant I 
had to go ask three uncomfortable 
questions I went and asked them because 
I was supposed to find the answers so I 
would go and I would ask the questions 
and come back and it always helped me 
learn more and keep progressing 
um and he is a wonderful man he is 
um is I was looking back at some of the 
notes that I had taken over the the 
months that all this happened and 
um again you helped me realize in the 
inner actions I had with him like 
recognizing the feelings that I had like 
I was having a day where I was in a bad 
mood but I went and I saw him and he 
made me feel like he was a safe haven 
right and so it's recognizing how I felt 
with it when I was with him and 
um 
just I mean it felt safe and it felt 
right and it has felt safe and it has 
felt right the whole time 
um and solid and just 
one of the well again one of the other 
things that I wrote down that you've 
told me was that both of us should feel 
like we are the lucky ones and to this 
day both of us feel like we are the 
lucky ones oh I love that that gave me 
goosebumps I love that so much and 
you're right you you had to have some 
direct conversations and I know as we 
you know our process is very much 
have a dating funnel then date people 
well narrow it down to you know like 
Holly said in a sales funnel like you 
narrow it down to your top three your 
top two your top one then you can become 
exclusive right then you had that 
conversation right are we exclusive 
there was I was to the point 
really didn't want to go out with anyone 
else 
have the check-in and said okay so what 
else do I have to do so I don't have to 
go out with anyone else besides David 
and the question was well what don't you 
know about him that you need to know and 
in thinking through everything it's like 
I don't know and it came down to well I 
don't know we've talked about 
I'm pretty sure he wants to be married 
again right 
and then it was like well do you know he 
wants to be married again I was like oh 
maybe not so that night at dinner I was 
like you work to see yourself in five 
years yeah and you did it 
yeah and so uh so that night we had the 
conversation and by the end of that 
evening we were exclusive 
I love that okay so now you have a 
boyfriend right and coaching and the 
coaching continues you know you continue 
with the same Cadence to make sure that 
this dude is good for you so phase one 
is funnel dating multiple people getting 
down to one person ideally then you have 
the conversation by the end of dinner 
you and David were exclusive but that's 
not where it ends right right and that 
again I think that was exceptionally 
helpful because 
the old me and actually frankly the 
current me it was like yeah I have a 
boyfriend everything's great now I'm 
just fine right and it was helpful to 
have not my friends not my family saying 
you know is he okay is he okay but you 
guys check in on me and saying okay so 
have you talked about finances have you 
talked about where would you where you 
live what do you what about your aging 
parents what's going to happen when your 
parents are older did you talk about you 
know is he showing up how much time are 
you spending together is that good for 
you is it good for him have you talked 
about whether that's good for him so all 
of those conversations happened at sort 
of a steady Pace because we were 
checking in to say you know where are 
you and what do you know and what do you 
not know so um that was extremely 
helpful and kept I think both of us on 
the right track and at some point I did 
tell him I was doing all this stuff like 
so I want to ask you some questions 
you're like I have these dating coaches 
all right and I well and the world's 
worst liar and poker player so at some 
point it was just easier to Fest of hey 
here's the deal here's the deal here's 
the deal I love that and so I know by 
the time your coaching was coming to a 
close we knew this was headed in a 
hundred percent the right direction that 
the next step was engagement 
yeah I will say I mean we knew it was 
headed in the right direction it was the 
right relationship for sure 
um I will say more engagement was a 
complete surprise to me 
um I thought we would end up getting 
engaged at some point in the future I 
was not in any big hurry 
um I was 
you know I knew I was contemplating 
getting retired so or becoming choosing 
to retire 
um and I didn't think he would do it 
anytime around then I thought it would 
probably be sometime this year 
um and then he surprised me when we were 
on a hiking trip last August 
um and we hiked out to an observation 
point at Zion National Park and I turned 
around and he had a ring out and and 
proposed so I mean it's like which is 
just quintessential to him and and I 
think my favorite part of this story 
number one he surprised me which I just 
love 
um and he got very emotional when he 
asked me to marry him 
um which I think is so sweet and I said 
yes of course and then we were up there 
all by ourselves and we sat down to you 
know have some water and and you know 
just sort of soak in the moment and I 
said so did anybody know you were doing 
this today and I said well I called your 
he said I called your parents last 
Wednesday and that's when I got 
emotional that is is David to a t he's 
the most thoughtful wonderful man I have 
ever met and a every tribulation and 
every painful dating experience I ever 
went through was worth it to find him 
and I would highly encourage everybody 
to adopt the psychotically optimistic 
Outlook because it's worth it 
and even when you think it can't happen 
for you it can right love is out there 
for me it's a when it's not an if and 
think about what you're doing and if 
you're not getting the results you want 
you gotta change something yeah and 
something big compromise right and 
they're not compromises I'm definitely 
one of those people I'd rather be by 
myself than with the wrong person but 
when you find the right person you will 
definitely know it right and it's an 
easy relationship for sure 
right like can you imagine it's like 
having a best friend yeah you like to 
sleep with yeah yeah yeah and I will you 
know a couple of my friends have asked 
me like when was the moment you knew you 
were in love and I can't tell you a 
moment because it just grew 
um which again I think was part of what 
you guys had described to me in that 
it's not a chemistry butterflies 
lightning feeling 
it's a you know when it's when it's 
truly right it's gonna grow and it's 
going to be really solid 
right and it's not that moment of 
electricity where oh my God it that's 
all in the movies right ultimately this 
just feels like wow it's super easy and 
it grows and it's you know it's like you 
uncork a great bottle of wine and it 
just gets better as it ages right and so 
um and so you guys got engaged I 
remember getting the I remember getting 
your email with the photos with your 
engagement ring and you had this super 
awesome green nail polish on 
it's one of green nails today too you 
have green nails today and you were so 
awesome to send Lindsay me a photo of 
you guys hiking and we'll have a whole 
page for Holly on our site so you guys 
can watch her journey and see her 
engagement pictures and then you guys 
what happened June 10th like this was a 
this was a pretty pretty uh pretty 
expedited path you were on like waste no 
time 
yeah so we got married we uh we picked 
June 10th because his daughter is 
um in college in Madrid so and lives 
part-time in Italy so we wanted to make 
sure she got a chance to come home his 
son is a student at Purdue so we wanted 
to make sure both of them could come 
home so that's why we picked 
um June because it was the best time and 
so we got to have all four of our 
parents were here and all of our 
families were here and it was a 
fantastic celebration of love and it was 
just amazing it was everything we had 
hoped for and owe so much more 
and you guys there's a photo of Holly as 
if you haven't seen it yet in her 
wedding dress and it is so darn cute and 
you looked amazing 
thank you we were very happy we really 
are oh and he's as handsome as they get 
too so I guess by the time this episode 
drops it'll be like your one month 
wedding anniversary yeah and your 
parents 64th anniversary I know 
and I remember as part of working with 
us when you did 12 months you did this 
360 feedback process and you had your 
parents email us your sister and your 
whole village just wanted you to find 
the lid to your pot and I'm so happy to 
know that a couple years later you have 
truly found the perfectly fitting lid to 
your cute little pot truly and I 
couldn't I couldn't express my 
appreciation enough for everything that 
you did for me thank you so much and it 
was fun too 
it was fun man I remember being in your 
inbox with you and we just giggled the 
whole time and some of these guys 
profiled right and the things that they 
say and you know and if you're listening 
to this just know that at some point 
that last first date is gonna happen to 
you just like it happened to Holly it 
will it definitely will and the 
in-between is fun too even though I mean 
you have some of those moments where you 
got to do hard things uh because you 
have to have the conversation uh to 
either you know end something or you 
have a direct conversation that doesn't 
turn out like you want to be but you 
know what it's just a moment and you 
move on and the good stuff it lies 
Beyond so the good thing is you got 
somebody on your in your corner helping 
you get through it all and it and if 
they do make it fun and it all works out 
oh I'm so glad so you would tell people 
that are on the fence do the love lab 
absolutely I mean it's such a low stakes 
way to do it and it definitely gives you 
a taste of 
um how do you get how do you get started 
and it's so there's so much information 
about the process and follow the process 
because it works it really really does 
oh that's awesome well Holly hates 
people like you that make Lindsay me 
Eileen Captain our whole team think we 
have the best jobs in the world because 
we get to work with the best people just 
like you so I'm so honored to have had a 
part in your journey and 
um thank you so much for telling your 
story and inspiring so many people guys 
you you heard this I mean Holly's just 
like so many of you right 
trials and tribulations you go through 
lots and lots of dates lots of 
relationships but don't lose hope do the 
thing you never know what that one 
change is that you can make that's going 
to be the change that changes everything 
that's right 
well any last parting words of advice 
you want to give to our dear listener 
I would just say you were worth the work 
you're worth the effort that great guy 
or girl is out there waiting for you so 
do it oh I love that well Holly Capps 
Casey we love you and we're gonna have 
to have you back at your one year 
anniversary just to fill us in on how 
year one of marriage is going in your 
50s sounds great well thank you love you 
too 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love today I am so 
excited about our guest she is amazing 
I'm sure if you haven't seen her in a 
magazine or on Instagram or in the 
10,000 other places that she's been 
including on shows and on her own 
podcast I am so delighted and grateful 
to have have the amazing Laura waser 
yay hey Bella it's so good to have you 
and for those of you who have been 
hiding under a rock and you don't know 
who she is let me just give you a couple 
of Snippets about my friend here who is 
beautiful if you haven't seen her Laura 
waser is an author entrepreneur and 
family law expert she is the senior 
partner at the law firm waser Cooper men 
mandals the founder and CEO of it's over 
easy the online divorce service how cool 
is that and one of the creators and the 
most giant fan of the next chapter 
collection of luxury candles which are 
amazing and smell absolutely Divine 
Laura has represented celebrities like 
wait for Kim Kardashian Britney Spears 
Dr Dre Kelly Clarkson Jimmy Ivy Maria 
Shriver Stevie wonderer and the list 
goes on and on and on but our friend 
Laura maintains that divorce is the 
great equalizer it terrifies everyone on 
Earth Laura's made it her mission to 
change that and we're going to find out 
how welcome again to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast Laura thank you for 
having me oh my gosh well tell us I mean 
how do you do what you do how did you 
become you did you dream about becoming 
a divorce attorney when you were a 
teenager when and then how did you get 
to where you are today with all of these 
amazing accomplishments I did not dream 
of becoming a divorc attorney I didn't 
even dream of becoming an attorney my 
parents named me Laura Allison waser and 
my initial spell law because they got my 
dad's bar results from the California 
bar which is the test you have to take 
to become a lawyer and then they you 
know celebrated and I was conceived and 
so I came out being law and for years I 
fought it I was like I'm not GNA be a 
lawyer that's so boring I don't want to 
do that and my father was actually a 
family law attorney a divorce lawyer and 
I certainly was never going to be that 
kind of a lawyer and then I got married 
very briefly in 1993 very briefly and as 
I was waiting for my bar results after I 
finished law school we quickly realized 
that we were probably too young to have 
gotten married and this wasn't the 
greatest 
uh fit and so after about 14 months we 
we got divorced and it was my first case 
that I actually handled on my own and 
because I needed money since we were now 
having to move out of the place we'd 
rented and had car payments I said to my 
dad can I come work for you just for a 
little bit he said yes and I never left 
and then I kind of took over the firm 
and um I really like doing this kind of 
law because I'm sure as you will see but 
on a different end of it it's all about 
human nature and human relationships and 
how people deal with communication and 
feelings and obviously the end of 
relationships as opposed to the 
beginning of relationships but the 
beginning of a new kind of relationship 
with the person to whom you were married 
or had a child with so I really like it 
because it's problem solving and it's 
very interesting for me as a student of 
human 
nature yeah and like you said I love all 
of that and you're helping people to end 
something but begin a new phase of their 
relationship and hopefully a better way 
because divorce is never fun no it's not 
fun and hence next chapter collection 
which is really talking about the next 
chapter of your life and these candles 
that smell good and you buy for a friend 
or you you know light while you're 
getting ready to go on that next date 
because I feel like having practiced 
family law for so many years part of 
this journey that you go through with 
people as you see them at the beginning 
at kind of a really uncertain and scary 
time particularly in this day and age 
uncertain and then kind of see them to 
the end of it and as they're kind of 
being rebirthed into the world and 
starting on their next chapters it 
really is cool to see and having nothing 
to do with legal career I have actually 
had many conversations with many clients 
about how do I date now like I haven't 
been with anybody since I had a 
C-section with my husband and it's so 
different now because of online and you 
know sometimes I can give them some 
words of wisdom but for the most part I 
would just sell send them to Bella like 
figure that out there but it is an 
opportunity to kind of represent 
yourself not only to whomever is sitting 
across from you at the table but to 
yourself and feel good about yourself in 
this next chapter so I really that's one 
of the reasons I love what I do is kind 
of seeing it through to the end and then 
kind of just watching my baby birds fly 
away into their next chapter yeah you 
know people ask me all the time similar 
to you how do I know that I'm ready to 
date after divorce and you know once you 
feel feel like you've gotten as much 
closure as you can get right you've 
healed as much as you can I think it for 
most people it's crazy to say I'm Healed 
I'm no longer angry or pissed or 
whatever it is it's just okay have you 
closed that chapter and you feel like 
you've invested in you have you fallen 
in love with yourself a little bit 
you've gotten back to the things that 
make you happy that you love to do and 
the thought of dating puts a little bit 
of a spring in your step and I'll tell 
you what Laura and I were having a 
little bit of a discussion about online 
dating and how it might feel like human 
eBay to some extent but getting yourself 
comfortable with online dating and 
meeting people in real life and getting 
set up right and and how to navigate 
those things because if you don't do 
that soul searching work chances are 
what we do is we do another round of 
ending up with the the same person again 
it's like same dude different face year 
over year decade over decade instead 
take that time to sit down when you 
enter your next chapter yeah and say who 
do I want to be with for the next 30 40 
50 70 years of my life how do I want to 
feel when I'm with this person and don't 
date until you've done that inside work 
because if not you might come right back 
to the waser law firm all over again 
exactly well you hosted a show called 
divorce sucks and I love the name of 
that title why do you think divorce 
sucks and for those of us so many maybe 
you're out there listening to this show 
after you've gotten divorced once or 
twice or three times but from your 
experience both personally and 
professionally why does divorce suck so 
badly I think part of the reason it 
sucks is because it's scary so many 
people that I meet with you know they 
may be the most wealthy educated 
sophisticated and they'll say oh I'm 
really sorry I just don't know anything 
about divorce and I think well why would 
you like you don't usually go into a 
marriage thinking you're going to get 
divorced and so it's very scary because 
not only are you dealing with something 
that's super emotional and often on some 
level sad nobody's all you know nobody's 
thrilled to be get ending a marriage um 
but it's also a legal 
complicated process which promotes fear 
in terms of are my kids going to be okay 
am I going to be okay when my kids 
aren't at my house I love putting them 
to bed every night and I love hearing 
them wake up every morning are am I 
going to be able to pay my mortgage or 
my rent what am I going to do for an you 
know some kind of an infusion of income 
I don't know and how am I going to be 
able to pay for all of the things that I 
have and how am I going to continue to 
live in the lifestyle that I live so 
it's really scary and it's also a little 
bit sad because the person that at some 
point you must have said Till Death to 
us part is now no longer by your side 
and so you're kind of in it on your own 
and you're depending on people that you 
have to pay usually an hourly fee to to 
be your Advocate which is kind of scary 
if you think about the fact that those 
people are getting paid for your 
conflict so the more conflict there is 
for you the more money we make um and so 
it's kind of a daunting situation which 
for lack of a better or more legally 
sophisticated word 
sucks it sucks and do you find for 
people as they get into the divorce 
process it sucks even more like they may 
have come in okay ready to split and 
then they just go bananas mid divorce or 
what causes people to go so crazy during 
divorce I actually think people are 
going crazy a little bit less than they 
were I think now people I think people 
are kind of doing some educating of 
themselves beforehand sometimes I'll say 
it may get worse before it gets better 
but sometimes taking that first step and 
beginning the learning process and 
feeling like you're actually becoming 
the master of your own destiny and doing 
something feels really good for people 
sometimes there's a little bit of a peak 
where it gets really ugly like when 
everybody lawyers up and okay what are 
we going to do but then usually what 
happens is it calms down I'd say 85 to 
90% of our cases settle and then and 
then most people then the dust settle 
even more and they're able to have kind 
of a good whether it's co-parenting or 
if they've owned a business together 
then it's actually okay so it's that 
first bit that's the scariest and I'll 
also say this another reason why divorce 
sucks and another reason why I think 
things are changing a little bit is 
because for so many years divorce was so 
taboo it was a failure and it was 
horrible and although even today in 2022 
nobody wants to get divorced the fact is 
the statistics show that half of 
marriages not half of people but half of 
marriages end in divorce and that that 
statistic grows if it's your second 
marriage it's more likely to end in 
divorce so that's what kind of rounds 
out that bell curve of half marriages 
ending in divorce if that's happening 
this much we must have to figure out a 
better way of approaching it and so I 
think it may suck a little less now that 
we are normalizing it for people now 
that we have better methods to deal with 
it that's what I call the evolution of 
dissolution not making it such a taboo 
having people kind of learn about it if 
they can online we have all kinds of 
workshops and webinars and seminars that 
people can take so it's not so daunting 
and so scary so that you can go into it 
you can deal with the emotional aspects 
of a relationship ending and then deal 
with the legal and financial aspects 
separately so you really handle your 
divorce more like a business transaction 
and like I said there's so many things 
that we have available to us in this day 
and age that our parents or their 
parents didn't have that I think it 
makes it suck a little bit less and 
people come to the table without 
necessarily being so crazy because they 
do realize maybe just because I've been 
saying it for 27 years the more you 
argue the more money the lawyers 
make oh amen amen amen um and I love 
this and I read this about you one of 
your favorite sayings is and she lived 
happily ever after on her own do you 
believe in love the second time around 
or the third time or the fourth time 
around oh totally I first of all I'm a 
serial monogamist I believe in love I 
love being in love I love falling in 
love I really do believe every time you 
fall in love you're falling a little bit 
in love with yourself as well again and 
of course I do at any age or stage I 
mean it's so crazy we've had clients 
come in that are in their 80s and I kind 
of think like one of the younger 
Associates said the other day like why 
bother and I'm like what she's just 
going to wait for him to die like 
every day needs to be lived till it's to 
its fullest and if you've hit a point 
again I'm a big fan of coup's counseling 
and you know weekend retreats to do 
whatever work needs to be done on the 
relationship but if it really isn't 
working get out and move on because yes 
love the second third fourth time around 
it's there that's the Human Condition we 
want to love and be 
loved 100% we're wired to love and be 
loved and 
you I love what you said you said 
something earlier about before let's say 
you've had love now the second or third 
or fourth time around at any age and you 
help people to put something together 
for you if you're you I'm sure you've 
heard of this called a prenup or 
prenuptual agreement you know kind of 
hammering out I've got this you've got 
that before you get married and putting 
together these legal documents and you 
said how having conversations 
about what's going to go into the prenup 
can lead to a better relationship tell 
me more about that because I agree with 
you 100 per. I feel like you know I get 
asked often to speak with you know 
women's groups particularly because a 
lot of women are very uncomfortable 
around the subject of money and I've 
also been asked to represent young women 
but men as well that are you know the 
Breadwinners if they're a singer 
Entertainer actor they their business 
team brings me in to say we know you're 
madly in love and that's wonderful but 
how about a prenup and listen to this 
woman since we're all making a 
percentage of what you earn and you're 
going to be pissed at us listen to her 
you'll never see her again tell you why 
and so kind of as like a big sister 
figure I'll explain that again having a 
a sense of financial literacy is 
important to all people but in terms of 
the prenuptual agreement if you are able 
to communicate not only only just 
Financial issues but expectations have 
the conversations even if both of you 
have nothing have conversations that are 
not super comfortable or sexy about what 
each of you feels will be important 
during the marriage and what the 
responsibilities will be during the 
marriage and who has what can you 
imagine getting married to somebody and 
he or she has a great deal of debt and 
you didn't know about it and so now 
every month part of the paycheck that's 
coming in is going to pay that debt you 
want to know what they have and what 
they owe and what they earn and maybe 
what they spend and what they save for 
hey what do you think I'm I I want to 
make sure we have enough money to go on 
a nice vacation every year oh no I'm 
saving so that we can you know buy a 
house and what about kids and my parents 
are elderly and when they you know when 
they need it I would like them to be 
able to come live with us as opposed to 
putting them in Assisted Living how do 
you feel with that that's not all stuff 
that's going to go into a prenut Bella 
but that's all stuff that should be 
discussed and again not super sexy or 
romantic but the level of comfort that 
you want to have with somebody that 
you're going to get married to I say 
this to people all the time if he's 
going to be in the delivery room with 
you while you're pushing out a baby this 
is way more comfortable than that 
scenario so let's have those 
conversations now and although I don't 
have the same great statistics that you 
have over 12 years of not having any 
people that you've set up getting 
divorced I will say that the prenuptual 
agreements we do even while we're 
negotiating them can get a little bit 
dicey very few of those people come back 
and get divorced because the discomfort 
happens at the front end and the 
expectations are very clear going in 
absolutely and that doveet tales in your 
philosophy so well with what we have our 
daters do so often you know people will 
come to me after having been in a 
relationship for three years and maybe 
they've lived together and and finally 
that I didn't know he didn't want to get 
married like how did you not know that 
like right and so having these convers 
ation in the dating process we are 
having people even to some extent before 
you get exclusive with somebody now in 
the Smart dating house rules we're 
saying no exclusivity with someone until 
three to four months of slow dating 15 
to 20 dates so we have graphs and we're 
very nerdy on what a good trajectory 
should look like but in that time asking 
those questions what do you value kind 
of how do you spend your money how do 
you save your money ask these things 
upfront where do you want to live when 
would you like to retire how do you want 
to retire people are so scared to ask 
these questions because it's like oh my 
gosh am I too extra am I going to be too 
much no you love yourself enough to say 
this is what I want and I don't want to 
settle for someone who doesn't want the 
same things that I want absolutely 
absolutely you know one of the the 
dating term of 2022 is called hard 
balling and I know that sounds a little 
like what hard balling but it's kind of 
say what you mean mean what you say by 
the third or fourth date don't hem and 
haot if you are looking for a 
relationship that is exclusive serious 
maybe leads to marriage to kids say that 
upfront don't waste your time anymore 
right I think that's really smart hard 
balling I like it hard balling so um 
let me you know I read off the names of 
you know many famous A-list people and I 
know you know the details of those 
things are super confidential because we 
deal with people that are also in the 
public eye that we put online believe it 
or not with dating but do you see any 
differences Laura in the way you know we 
all kind of fantasize about celebrities 
how they get married or how they get 
divorces like what are the biggest 
differences if any between how they are 
versus the rest of us on the ground 
media it really is Media the fact I mean 
again I would imagine that people want 
their weddings and their happiness and 
everything else to be publicized and 
there's certainly ways of getting that 
out there if they're celebrities they 
don't necessarily feel that way about 
their breakups and so while folks like 
gwenth and Chris and Ben and Jen and Jen 
and Justin have been great I'm saying 
this I know them I don't but but you 
know have been great about giving us 
catchphrases like conscious uncoupling 
or gentle separation um it actually has 
helped trickle down to us common folk 
because if the famous people that we all 
look up to so much are doing it in a 
better and more civilized and respectful 
manner hey we can do that too also I 
feel like there's like a certain level 
of shod and Freud and that's why the 
moment a divorce gets filed TMZ and 
radar and E entertainment all pick it up 
we like seeing our celebrities not only 
get married and have babies and do 
wonderful things but we like seeing that 
they fail just like we do as well and so 
being able to see that and then see how 
they do it is different that being said 
um if you're filing documents that may 
say I'm concerned about this person's 
drinking or marijuana smoking because of 
our kids or this person was AB abusive 
or whatever else that's also going to 
get picked up very quickly so 
celebrities have to be very careful 
about what gets filed because they're 
treated just like everyone else by our 
court systems and so a lot of times they 
will be a little bit more ready to 
mediate out of the public eye settle 
differences between themselves as 
opposed to a bunch of public mudslinging 
so that is actually an advantage to 
representing celebrities because they 
want they have a vested interest in 
keeping things quiet they don't want 
their kid at the market looking at at 
the news stand with a ugly thing 
splashed across it w um and I would also 
say you know More Money More Problems to 
a certain extent if you are super 
wealthy or famous I think that there are 
a lot of other things that can become 
problems not as big of a problem as 
having the sleep in your car but 
certainly problematic and so there's 
differences there but as you said 
earlier it really is the great equalizer 
whether you're worried about who you're 
going to walk the red carpet with or 
what they're going to say about you on 
the cover of Us magazine or you're 
worried who you're going to go to the 
company picnic party with or who the you 
know local gossip is going to be talking 
about in the supermarket line those are 
still concerns and it does make us feel 
scared and Afraid and lonely and that's 
why whoever it is that's going through 
this needs to find a really good support 
group you know whether it's friends or 
family or a group that you don't even 
know if it's just a local kind of you 
know Community if it's a group therapy 
or something at at the local College do 
you're not alone and I think that 
divorce can be isolating make sure you 
find your people as you're going through 
this 100% and like you said earlier you 
know if you're talking about 20 30 40 
years ago really there was so little to 
support us today you have services like 
the things that Laura is doing with it's 
over easy with the candles you have date 
coaches people would have like looked at 
me sideways like what do you do they 
kind of sometimes still do like a dating 
coach is that really a job I'm like it's 
really a job to help people navigate in 
the weeds especially with online dating 
and looking at is this a good person is 
this a real person is this a red flag or 
a green flag and to your point about 
celebrities and the magnification of 
what happens with them going through 
divorce I know many times we get them 
after they're at the end of the divorce 
hunnel just like we get regular people 
that you know want to get out there and 
date again but they have the same fears 
and sometimes greater fears of being 
like wait a second aren't you so in so 
when they get online and I've had 
clients that you and I would know 
walking down the street that will put 
themselves on a dating app and they get 
blocked from an app they get thrown off 
the app or they get really dubious 
people going you're a catfisher aren't 
you because you look just like blah blah 
blah it's like no wait I am blah blah 
blah am blah blah 
blah I mean I know Sharon Stone who was 
not our client was very famously tossed 
off of bumble last year she's like but 
wait I am the real Sharon Stone so if 
you're listening to this thinking okay 
I'm out of divorce I'd really not like 
to do online dating what I will tell you 
is dating like divorce is the Great 
equalizer when you're out there and 
you're and you're maybe saying okay I've 
kind of my setup pipeline has dried up a 
lot of my friends you know even though 
I'm high-profile are like yeah I really 
don't know anybody good to fix you up 
with people are going online and it's 
okay to be online and it's fun and 30 to 
40% of marriages today that take place 
happen because of connections that we 
make online wow isn't that crazy yeah it 
is but it doesn't particularly post 
pandemic or during pandemic it does not 
surprise me I think it makes a lot of 
sense and I think we will probably in 
some ways never go back to where we were 
before simply because of what we've all 
lived through in the past couple of 
years absolutely 100% And I think people 
are so much more comfortable we had 
people fall in love with each other 
doing Zoom dating for a year for four 
months during quarantine because they 
couldn't see each other and then they 
got to know each other it's such a 
granular level like you know Michael 
would it bother you if I ate my last 
meal at 3 pm I'm like wow like you know 
more about each other than ostensively 
people putting together prenups I'm 
joking little but but it kind of went 
back to wartime like writing amazing 
letters to each other and having to 
communicate through video so so yeah 
there's a lot of great stories that 
happened out of quarantine so you know 
are you willing to tell us Lord are you 
single are you dating anyone like kind 
of tell us where you are because you're 
gorgeous and super relatable and you 
know someone we all look up to oh gosh 
well yeah I say this to clients all the 
time they're like well what would you do 
and I'm like don't ask me I'm a hot mess 
single mother of two I'm single right 
now um and I uh I like kind of being 
single but I definitely like dating and 
meeting new people and I i' I'm pretty 
much a Serial monogamous I'm not I don't 
know if you're going to want to hear 
this Bella but I'm not sure that I that 
I believe that human beings Were Meant 
to mate for life so that's why I 
particularly believe in love a second or 
third time around and I and I feel like 
I mean I'm not just out there you know 
dating everybody but I definitely feel 
like you know you I'm I love a great 
experience I love you know I'm like I 
said I'm curious about the world I love 
meeting new people I love getting to 
know people and so and actually in my 
profession I get to know people pretty 
well they don't always get to know me 
super well because they're not paying me 
to get to know me they're paying me to 
get to know them and all so it is kind 
of nice to like be out with somebody and 
you know over a piece of salmon and a 
glass of wine discuss what's interesting 
to me and what makes me happy and what I 
like to do so that's that's fun and like 
I said you really do kind of get to 
recreate yourself as you meet new people 
whether it be online or at a party if 
we're ever allowed to go to parties 
again or you know at a at a function 
School functions I find that there's 
like a lot of different interesting 
people out there to meet whether it's 
somebody that's to to date or just to 
become friendly with absolutely I love 
that and I love that you love to date 
and I love that you know where you stand 
on this right like I don't believe 
people are meant to mate for life and 
you may fall in love two four eight 10 
times during the duration of your life 
and that's fine and as long as you know 
that and the person you're with knows 
that I think it's amazing I love Clarity 
and transparency and where we where we 
match on those things so if do you have 
any kind of musthaves for a person that 
you're going to be with funny they have 
to be funny they have to like have a 
sense of humor and they have to not take 
themselves too seriously going just back 
to one point I definitely like and I say 
this to people a lot better to have 
loved and lost than never to have loved 
at all all getting out there and having 
the relationship I think is the main 
thing as opposed to worrying about how 
it's going to end or if it's going to 
end or am I going to get hurt so I think 
that's really important and I kind of at 
this point put that out there as well in 
terms of clarity like I can't promise 
you that I'm going to be the Perfect 
Mate wife whatever the other thing I 
want to say is there are some people who 
probably were meant to mate for life and 
God bless them I think that's great I 
just don't think that that's the norm 
frankly I think the norm is you got to 
have a couple tries and figure it out 
and you grow and you change and if 
you're lucky enough to be somebody that 
meets somebody and grows and changes and 
evolves with them great but many of us 
end up going and changing in different 
directions which is 
okay no and I and I think that there's a 
lot of value to that you know people 
will ask me you know how many of your 
clients end up getting married I'm like 
you know probably half of them that meet 
somebody get married but the other half 
live together as if I always say we're 
looking for the lid to our pots right 
and and it's no less serious or real 
should you not decide to go through a 
30- minute Church ceremony or whatever 
it is you want to do so I think finding 
the lid to your pot is so important 
whether you choose to get married or not 
it really has virtually no impact and 
people have argued and I would love to 
hear your opinion on this as as a family 
law expert that sometimes when you are 
together to be together let's say like 
uh Goldie hon and Kurt Russell and you 
don't have the concrete blocks or you 
know on you about marriage that you just 
kind of peacefully exist with each other 
because you don't have the fear of what 
if it's well if it doesn't work out 
here's my suitcase here's your suitcase 
well okay but that being said I don't 
feel particularly in that relationship 
that like either of them has one foot 
out the door you have opt in I think 
that for some people having that piece 
of paper that marriage certificate that 
level of security so to speak is super 
important but as I said before if half 
marriages are ending in divorce how 
comfortable do you really feel and so I 
think you know people will come to me 
and they said we've been living together 
for 10 years we've kind of co-mingled 
our money and it's really important to 
him or her that now we get married and I 
said well is it important to you no but 
it's important to me that my my 
significant other is happy so we explore 
that part of me says you know if it 
ain't broken don't fix it both of my 
sons are from relationships with men to 
whom I wasn't married but we lived 
together and we were very very 
monogamous Partners whatever I will tell 
you from personal experience is it's not 
easier to end that kind of a 
relationship if you're not married than 
it would be if you were married you 
still have to divide stuff up you still 
go through the Heartbreak they're still 
legal especially if you have kids so it 
cuts both ways the security of being 
married isn't always so super secure and 
the freedom of not having those blocks 
on you again you have to Define what it 
means to you in your Narrative of what 
marriage means but that's not always the 
thing that makes you feel so super Free 
and Easy in a 
relationship yes you're so right and 
that's a great wind that's a great 
perspective for me to look at as well 
it's okay if you don't have the uh it 
doesn't mean it's necessarily so clean 
cut and dry where you take your suitcase 
and I take my suitcase and we're done 
there could be there's more potential 
things to disentangle yes totally and 
again is it easier because you don't 
have to go through the legal 
ramifications maybe sometimes I've had 
marriages with people that were so not 
co-mingled that it was super easy 
divorce and then I've had breakups with 
people that had been cohabiting for 
years never got married and super 
difficult so it it really does depend on 
the relationship and how it all works 
and again what you bring to the 
relationship in terms of your past and 
your feelings about marriage and 
commitment and and all that stuff oh 
yeah that's amazing and you know I love 
this this question what do freshly 
signed divorce papers actually smell 
like Laura watzer tell us so it was 
really funny because when Johnny who 
candle company this is and he brought a 
bunch over and we were smelling them we 
were coming up with the names for them 
so this one apparently look to me it 
just smells really good but it smells 
like earth wood spice woodsy and sweet 
Pine Balsam and Blossoms fresh it sounds 
freshes and again what I like about it 
is you know and there's a bunch I mean 
the names of them are great there you 
know there's freshly signed divorce 
papers but there's there's one called 
Grudge which is what your people 
before they come to you Bella and are 
ready to get out there again they should 
light that but there is and she lived 
happily ever after alone there's 
gratitude there's one that's called 
smells like a millennial prenup what I 
like about them is you know they're 
they're for your home you have them in 
the background but as you're going up to 
your bathroom to blow dry and apply your 
makeup and get dressed maybe with your 
glass of wine I mean sometimes I'm sure 
you would agree the best part of the 
date is getting ready for the date 
you've got your music on maybe your kids 
are at your ex's for the first time you 
know the first weekend you're on your 
own it almost doesn't even matter where 
you're going or whom with it's that that 
that the getting ready and that whole 
you know everything that you do to get 
ready and the excitement and the 
hopefulness you light your candle smells 
like freshly signed divorce papers you 
have your music on you have your glass 
of wine you're getting ready and that is 
what this next chapter Journey how it 
begins and what it's about and we just 
love that idea I love that so much so we 
have something you know when our clients 
start up with us at Smart dating Academy 
we have them like they know who they're 
looking for they know the red flags but 
one of the most important things to your 
point that we do is we have them come up 
with what we call a dating ritual 
because so many people think you can go 
straight from the date have your you 
know lovely prod suit and your gorgeous 
red bottom heels and go straight from 
work to date but what you're not doing 
is sort of taking the step bench of your 
work day off of you and especially for 
all of us men and women we're 
multifaceted kind of putting inste of 
CEO facet forward kind of spinning it to 
put the facet of you that's like fun 
cool date and how do you get to being 
the fun cool date versus the Ironclad 
divorce attorney or dating coach or 
surgeon or lawyer whatever you are and 
and lighting a candle is something I 
think is a great addition to our clients 
dating ritual I you know one of my 
things for women especially we talk 
about something called the berry lip and 
so we have all of our clients to 
symbolize it's like okay I'm going on a 
date you pop your lip color because a 
lot of the science shows that men what 
are you gonna show us your lipstick I 
love this scary lip I realize that maybe 
it's not quite popping enough yet hold 
on on this Zoom call right now here it 
iser I'm ready where are you come pick 
me up come pick me up put on your Berry 
lip because Reds pinks men will always 
say no I want someone that looks really 
natural that looks great in a T-shirt 
and cut off jeans but what do they look 
at the lip the lip popped lips so Reds 
and pinks so we often when we do dating 
photo shoots in our studio in Chicago 
for people that are out of divorce or 
maybe just coming back into it after a 
bad breakup you come in to do a photo 
shoot cuz it's super fun and it's like 
adorable and you're doing five or feel 
beautiful you feel beautiful 
and and what's lovely is sometimes we 
don't do things for ourselves and invest 
in ourselves and one of the things 
everybody laughs at in our photo shoot 
I'm like pop that lip but I wear a nude 
lip I'm like not today this is our photo 
shoot so you're going to pop this lip 
and they always love the color so I'm 
glad that you're a proponent of the 
berry lip in in the dating routine and 
having a great playlist you guys is so 
important what's on your dating playlist 
when you're getting ready like what I 
don't have a playlist I have different 
like stations so I think when I'm 
getting ready I probably usually listen 
to like the lead zein 
station or if I depending on which date 
it is I I actually like also the Joanie 
Mitchell station oh two great ones right 
I'm thinking of like When the Levy 
Breaks like I can think of good Zeppelin 
tunes that are great this is my Stairway 
to Heaven right now with my very lip 
with my with my bar lip when I'm getting 
ready to go on a date with my husband I 
need to have a dating playlist because I 
do my fun run right from Spotify right 
because I like to run so it's like okay 
let's do the Fun Run The Fun Run dating 
list so Laura you're amazing any last 
bits of Laura waser gems that you can 
leave with the listener to make them 
better to make them more prepared as 
they think about dating or getting 
better in their 
relationships I would definitely say 
like you know one on on this finger I 
have a ring and it says carpedm okay and 
so my two big sayings are this two shall 
pass as you're going through the divorce 
we're going to get through this this is 
going to pass and then carpedm so this 
two Shall Pass hopefully by the time 
they're coming to you Bella and they're 
dating and they're getting back out 
there for the next chapter it's passed 
and now we're in the carpedm seize the 
day enjoy the moment take every dating 
experience for what it's worth this may 
not be the person that you're going to 
spend the rest of your life with but 
what can you take from this meal or hike 
or concert that will make you better and 
happier and you'll take it into whatever 
the next relationship is and have that 
little bit of that day because as we 
have seen over the past couple of years 
things can change in an instant so my 
advice for whatever it's worth is seize 
the day enjoy the moment make the most 
of it for yourself and whomever you're 
with and really be open to experiences 
because that's what this is all about 
one I love that so much and one of the 
things we tell our clients that's so in 
alignment with that is I get to go on 
this 
date not I have to so if you can take 
today and say instead of every time you 
find yourself saying I have to change 
that and say I get to I have two 
teenagers I'm like you get to go to 
school you 
don't you get to go to school your 
education is a privilege getting to go 
on the date means you get to hear 
someone else's story and that story can 
make you better if you let it totally 
agree love it thank you so much for 
being here what a treasure and I know 
how busy you are so thank you for 
bequeathing your knowledge and your gems 
on to me and to you dear listener so um 
thank you so much and I hope you will 
come back to us I will come back enjoy 
your candle um if your listeners want to 
get candles they can come to next 
chapter collection and also check us out 
um on it's over easy.com or Laura waser 
official all of those places we are 
available and um hopefully you will come 
find us and yes I'll definitely come 
back I'd love to you know what and we'll 
put put a link to the next chapter 
candles in the show notes so you guys 
can all buy The Grudge 
gratitude I just wanted to say 
that right smells really good too it 
doesn't smell like what you think it 
smells like no it's very pleasant 
because it ends up feeling very pleasant 
yes exactly absolutely absolutely thank 
you again for have for of 
course 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love welcome back 
smart daters I hope you've had an 
amazing week I know I have the weather's 
great I'm feeling sunny on the outside 
and on the inside and today I want to 
share with you one of my favorite people 
an amazing guest 
her name is Andrea javer she is a 
marketing consultant she's a certified 
dating coach and perhaps more 
importantly she has now become a friend 
because she has been a Smart dating 
Academy client for the last year I can't 
believe time has gone so fast but I 
brought Andrea on here because I know 
that her story will resonate with so 
many of you whether you're walking your 
dog 
you're driving through LA traffic you're 
taking a jog through Lincoln Park in 
Chicago if that's the case I'll see you 
soon um so I know that her story will 
resonate with you and she has agreed to 
tell it and to share it with you and to 
share with you what's worked and what 
wasn't working so Andrea thank you for 
being here I am so excited to be here 
Bella I can't even tell you I I'm 
thrilled I get to tell my story to all 
of your listeners and hopefully it'll be 
inspiring is it's it's really been this 
has been such a wonderful experience in 
my life well let's jump right into your 
life tell us you tell us you you know 
kind of growing up and give us the juice 
people want to know who you are like 
you're from 
Chicago yeah yeah so actually you know I 
grew up in the midwest I grew up in St 
Louis and um you know I have I have two 
wonderful parents my I have two great 
Brothers great family I the oldest of 
the three of us and it's so funny 
because looking back when I was growing 
up I just remember getting so many 
messages about my career it was always 
about Andrea you can do anything you 
want in life that like the sky is the 
limit I I could say I want to be an 
astronaut and my dad would say you could 
do that I mean clearly clearly I can't 
but but Dad thought you could you could 
he thought you hung the moon honestly 
and I mean my parents were so supportive 
when it came to kind of like what are 
you going to do with your life so 
there's there were all these like 
amazing messages about career about like 
you know I remember when I was a kid you 
know growing up in St Louis and we were 
thinking about moving to Chicago when I 
was in Middle School and I remember 
driving on Lakeshore Drive for the first 
time and I remember looking at those 
high-rise condos and I was in the back 
seat and I just remember staring up and 
I said I'm gonna live in one of these 
someday and I remember my mom turned 
around in the car and she goes honey you 
can do that you can do anything you want 
I'm excited for you to live there 
someday right so it was like all these 
messages but I think like you know and 
my and God love my parents like I mean 
they they've done they've done 
everything right in terms of in terms of 
this but I will say I think my parents 
in society in general there I didn't get 
a lot of messages around you are going 
to find a wonderful man someday to make 
you so happy and you will make him so 
happy I just I just didn't get those 
messages that just wasn't part of the 
rhetoric it wasn't part of the dialogue 
in the family it was sort of this like I 
don't know it was just like you're going 
to be great at your career and that was 
sort of the message I took away and and 
maybe I just didn't hear the message but 
it you know so for me it was this like 
you can do anything you can be anything 
but I really wasn't sure what a happy 
healthy successful relationship was 
going to look like you know my parents 
are still married at 46 years you know 
to the like next month it'll be 46 years 
but I mean I guess you know we're just 
like right like you know that we're just 
not taught how to be smart daters or how 
to successfully find a partner no and 
what I find that's so similar with so 
many of my clients whether their parents 
had happy marriages or you know complete 
Discord and Chaos in their relationships 
that as a culture we're not giving our 
kids enough guidance around dating and 
relationships it's like we've become 
very lace aair and like well I don't 
want to interfere I don't want to you 
know they just need to find a person 
that's going to make them happy I don't 
want to push them away and having two 
teenagers I can tell you I'm going 
through that at this moment but it's 
really about you know the messaging 
we're so focused on what do you want to 
be when you grow up and I love that your 
parents said you can be and do anything 
that you want to be and I think that 
it's so curious that we just expect 
our kids and all of us to just have love 
magically appear when we're ready for it 
but to your point I couldn't agree more 
we're not it it it should be an and you 
can be anything you want to be and you 
can find the lid to your pot while 
you're doing that well it's like you can 
do anything you want and have someone in 
your life who is so supportive of you 
and helps you fulfill those dreams like 
you don't need anybody but you can have 
somebody there to support you right like 
it's yeah so I it is the end right and 
and I think I think what was hard for me 
is then you know in my 20s like you know 
I graduated college I I moved I was in 
Milwaukee first school and then I moved 
to Chicago on my own you know my parents 
weren't living here I was like got my 
Lincoln Park apartment you know 600 
square feet with a roommate you know 
like could barely afford to like you 
know buy groceries other than you know 
like Ramen noodles you know so it's was 
like all my disposable income was just 
like going out to the bars on the 
weekends like that totally that's what 
we all did I worked I went out and I 
remember I had a lot I had so much 
anxiety in my early 20s about dating 
because I think in retrospect I didn't 
know what I was looking for I thought I 
would just meet a guy out at like the 
schoolyard Tavern on Southport or 
something insan right like because 
that's where I was all the time and it's 
like no I wasn't really being Discerning 
about the process or any of that and I 
think honestly like as a kid when you're 
not really given a lot of messages about 
what to look for what I look towards is 
you know cheesy romantic comedies and 
Disney movies that I grew up on and so 
you know I met my first husband when I 
was 26 um we yeah so so he and I met 
through so my best friend was dating 
this guy who she eventually got married 
she's still married to him 17 years 
later um but she was dating this guy and 
it my first husband is his cousin oh it 
was like to Ideal it was ideal it was 
like okay so I know him through someone 
I trust he's from a great family you 
know all these things right that were 
just it was like a fairy tale and I'm 
like we're gonna my best friend and I 
are going to be like related you know 
because we're amazing married to cousins 
and it was also this time in life where 
I was you know I was 20 I think I was 28 
when we got engaged and then 29 as we're 
getting married and at that time I mean 
hilariously I can say this now in my 40s 
I'm like I felt like the Clock Was 
ticking I have to have children I mean I 
want to have kids I want to have the 
house and the house in the suburbs and 
all this other stuff and um you know and 
and ironically my career is just going 
great I mean nothing wrong with that 
right like I'm getting promoted every 18 
months I'm climbing the corporate ladder 
doing super well in my career and really 
enjoying what I was doing I you know had 
a marketing career um for the first 20 
years of out out of college and um and 
yeah so this whole relationship and this 
marriage was happening almost as just 
like a default it was like well everyone 
like I want to be married you're the 
person I love you're the person I'm with 
right now and it just we got married and 
honestly Bella as soon as we got married 
it was like we had to look at each other 
and realize we never should have done 
this oh my God it was there were a lot 
of things he wasn't honest about with me 
there were a lot of red flags that I 
didn't see not the least of which which 
was that he never had a lot of ambition 
ever and here's me Miss ambition right 
climing again doing really well in my 
job and then married to this man who 
just was kind of immature didn't really 
have a lot going for him and then it 
just we just didn't have enough to go on 
right and so eight months in we called 
it quits and you know wow from a 
Catholic perspective the guilt the just 
the the fact that it was such a short 
marriage it was so humiliating to me but 
honestly I just thought I don't know how 
I'm ever going to you know get through 
this I don't know how I'm going to ever 
trust that if if if not my best friends 
you know husband's cousin you know 
somebody who you know it's like how am I 
ever going to meet someone and um but 
you know you you move on and I did a lot 
of self-growth I did a lot of therapy at 
the time again I was again you know 
growing in my career I traveled the 
world I had such an amazing job at the 
time I was going to Sydney Australia and 
Istanbul and Madrid and Barcelona and I 
was going to South America I was 
traveling all over the world for my job 
and I felt for years that I was really 
getting to know myself and really 
starting to understand you know who I 
was and what I wanted I did a lot of 
therapy you know this was years and 
years in my early 30s like probably age 
30 to 35 really with self-reflection you 
know I dated a lot like so I was on um I 
think I did match.com for a while I 
think I did Tinder I don't think Bumble 
was around at the time but you know so I 
would go on dates but it was almost like 
as soon as I'd meet somebody that I 
liked I would stop dating anybody else 
and ah okay let's go there yeah and this 
is the part that you teach this is this 
is my Revelation in working with you is 
the piece where we just don't I I think 
we're just not taught to look for the 
red flags or or and or I don't know I 
don't have I didn't have the discipline 
to stop and say like is this I don't 
know like like again with my first 
husband and the lack of a career piece 
it's like well how was that not a 
massive red flag but it's like well he 
loves me and I love him and it's sweet 
and you know but it's like no there 
needs to be a higher standard here and 
I'm sure in retrospect Andre there were 
more red flags than just the lack of 
ambition that usually comes along with 
three or five other pink to yellow flags 
oh eight or 10 really I mean just so 
many things I mean so many things that 
really should have been right in front 
of me and you know here's the thing this 
is and and so like spoiler I've been 
married twice and divorced twice as you 
know but so as in my 30s as I was 
traveling around and doing a lot of 
self-reflection and therapy I thought 
okay I have sort of future proofed 
myself from this now like I have because 
I've done all this therapy I'm not going 
to make the same mistake again but for 
whatever reason I met my second husband 
when I was about I think I was 35 or 
36 and I in he is a he is a clinical 
narcissist so I don't say narcissist 
with like an opinion this is he has been 
clinically diagnosed with sociopathic 
personality disorder bipolar all kinds 
of just all kinds of terrible mental 
health issues and I don't take any of 
that lightly it it it is a it is a 
struggle for him more than anyone in 
this World quite honestly to have to 
live with that but so when I met him he 
has three children you know he had been 
divorced for a couple of years it was 
again it was presented to me like this 
fairy tale and I really do think I think 
I was aware of the fact that like I you 
know I knew that there that he had 
issues right because obviously anybody 
with three kids who's divorced there's a 
lot of baggage and things like that 
stuff yeah like just having deal with 
the ex-wife and you know just things 
like that that well does he have good 
boundaries does he you know how is his 
financial situation with all the child 
support and alimony and stuff he has to 
pay like how how does that all work and 
I think the entire time we were together 
and by the way we didn't date that long 
before getting engaged and married so 
this is the other big problem I I tell 
us about that tell us about that from 
the time you met how fast did it go were 
you love bombed like let's kind of go to 
the red flags and that because what I 
find so fascinating and you dear 
listeners so many people come to us 
saying oh I you know I've done a lot of 
therapy I'm ready for dating and I think 
listen to what Andrea is telling you she 
did five years of 
introspective deep weekly therapy and 
what happens regression to the mean you 
go back to doing the same thing you did 
before and we'll get more into that so 
tell us how did it open up in the 
beginning what got you in a good way 
yeah so I think so we met in April of 
2015 we were engaged in March of 
2016 okay and we were married in October 
of 2016 so literally within a year and a 
half of meeting we were married so that 
so this is a Hu this this is the biggest 
regret I have was how quickly this went 
because I think if I would have been 
much more careful about the courting 
process none of this would have happened 
so we met in April of 15 we met on 
Tinder we talked back and forth for a 
couple of days we went on our first date 
had a wonderful time just you know a lot 
of chemistry a lot of just intellectual 
and social conversation you know all 
that was great and you know getting to 
know him it was almost as though when I 
look back at it I think with his 
personality disorder I think and and 
he's really smart right he's like left 
brain right brain he can speak on a 
stage but he also is super smart with 
numbers and programming and things like 
that I think he was always a step ahead 
of me it was almost like he listened for 
the things that I was looking for and 
served those up on a silver platter to 
me absolutely I was duped from the very 
beginning completely hookline and sinker 
he knew I wanted a family he knew I was 
anxious about getting older right so I 
was in my mid-30s I'm like I want to 
have children he had three beautiful 
children the things that he dangled were 
things like well you know I'm so 
protective of my kids you know I'm such 
a loving father I want to go to a child 
psychologist before you meet them let's 
do it the right way 
so we did that right like we I mean 
which I I thought was great I'm like oh 
gosh she's so careful about it yeah 
little did I know until way after we 
were divorced his ex-wife told me he 
never even wanted to see the kids like 
he she had to beg him to be with them 
this was all a show for me right this 
was a show because he met a woman who 
wanted to have kids and so he you know 
and and I think he struggled with he I 
think he still struggles with that back 
and forth trying to figure out how to 
make his kids a really meaningful part 
of his life it's very it's and again 
it's the mental it's the mental illness 
piece that's really hard but oh my gosh 
that's unbelievable so for those of you 
that heard the episode from a couple of 
episodes ago on love bombing versus love 
seeking love bombing is what happened 
here to Andrea if he listened for the 
things that motivated her the things 
that she wanted and then doled them up 
fraudulently on on a silver platter 
right and so this is where dating slowly 
and knowing what the red flags are and 
understanding those and asking the right 
questions and pushing back can really 
help you and if you haven't heard that 
please listen to love bombing versus 
love seeking because there are questions 
that you can ask that can really get to 
the bottom of is this a good person or a 
bad person is this a romantic or is this 
a person that's trying to dupe me as you 
so eloquently said well and I'll tell 
you I think he needed me more than he 
wanted to be with me and I think that 
was because he he needed to portray this 
image of you know he's gonna have a new 
wife and he needed me to help take care 
of his kids you know like all of that 
you know is just it was love bombing and 
I didn't know what that was I wish I 
would have heard that episode before 
before any of this happened years and 
years ago um but yeah I think so I think 
like the root cause underneath all of 
these all of these issues with my ex my 
both ex-husbands was really the falling 
in so quickly falling into oh thank God 
I've met someone I can stop dating I can 
stop I can take myself off Tinder 
because I've met someone it was almost 
this like I think as a person and and 
again I you know I I would love to talk 
about the attachment styles that you 
teach because that's something I was 
completely unaware of that I was an 
anxious attacher and like being an 
anxious attacher you end up I ended up 
missing red flags because I couldn't 
slow down because my anxiety kicked in 
and then it was like oh gosh like I 
would have never ever back in 2015 when 
I met my my second ex-husband I never 
would have ever taken it so slowly or 
dated multiple people or followed the 
advice of Smart dating Academy because 
it was counterintuitive I'm like well 
I'm a one woman at a time or one man at 
a time kind of woman I don't want to 
date multiple people like I so I didn't 
really understand the concept that 
you're not intimate with multiple people 
at the same time you're you're dating 
you're getting to know multiple people 
at the same time and that's just 
something I think a lot of people have 
have said oh well I don't I don't date 
like that and I want to say well yeah 
that's the problem right like that's 
problem that's where you're missing the 
red flags especially if you're an 
anxious attacher well and to that point 
remember it's about when you're an 
anxious attacher right the thing you 
want the most is certainty 
right and we want to jump out of the 
game get off of Tinder on the third date 
because we want nothing more than to 
cling to this hope that this is 
certainly the right person for me and 
all I can tell you is there's Great 
Value in sitting in that uncertainty in 
sitting in that dating funnel in sitting 
in that he's got to earn me right this 
isn't me Clinging On to certainty it's 
like Oho that's a big dark red dark kind 
of red flag filled alley right now and 
being number one willing to acknowledge 
that yeah oh my God I am an anxious 
attacher even though by the books my 
parents are in a happy marriage I should 
be securely attached there's no shoulds 
in this process We Are Who We Are for a 
100,000 reasons right so knowing that 
you're anxious and being able to sit in 
the uncertain 
of slow dating is I know something that 
you learned later in the game with us 
but we can come back to your your second 
marriage and close any Loops you want so 
that went fast yeah I mean it was just I 
think it was so fast and it was so 
devastating because children were 
involved who loved me and who I mean 
still love me and I still love them and 
we've we it's it's wonderful because we 
still have a relationship but I will say 
I regret so much how quickly that went 
and I got so swept up once again in this 
fairy tale and so if you can imagine you 
know when I met you years later so I'm 
divorced in 2018 I mean again this was 
all very fast so divorced in 2018 trying 
to pick up the pieces of my life and 
really giving myself a lot of time 
before actually trying to get into a 
long-term serious relationship so when I 
met you and I guess it was 2021 right it 
was last year I think we were introduced 
I think think you said it was like the 
the universe was pointing you in this 
direction you're like I don't remember 
we have a one common friend and then 10 
others it seemed like that were pointing 
you like hey you need to do this yeah 
exactly so it was like it was just when 
when I met you I had just you know I had 
dated someone after my divorce just you 
know for just a little over a year 
loving relationship just not a long-term 
one amole breakup all that good stuff 
and I when I met you I just remember 
thinking gosh do I really have the 
energy or the confidence or the the 
trust in the world to try to do this 
again and I thought you know what this 
is such a different approach than 
therapy and I believe in therapy of 
course but like this is such a different 
approach you guys are Specialists and 
helping people find that good husband 
quality in someone and so what I found 
really interesting when we first started 
working together is just from the very 
beginning like the things that were 
really different to me I'm like wait a 
second I'm going to put professional 
photos on my profile I never would have 
thought of that there I've like cropped 
pictures and pictures with like me and 
my friends and whatever I don't know 
like just like R and it's like well no 
wait a second let's be like what I loved 
about it was the photos in the profile 
were so 
deliberately giving me self-confidence 
that oh my gosh I'm presenting myself in 
a way that it's not just like oh I'll 
take what I can get I just hope to meet 
people it was like no no no we are 
positioning you onm 
match.com as someone who was going like 
you were going to attract in so many 
people and it's true the whole 
experience I felt like I was truly 
repositioned in the online world but 
also I think it was because the process 
repositioned my internal confidence and 
so many I mean I the girls I like a lot 
of girls I work with in their 30s are 
like you know the single ones they're 
like oh I'll just take what I can get or 
oh there's just not great guys out there 
and I'm sitting here thinking if like 
flip that script right like you've got 
to be super positive about it you've got 
to be I think you call it um I call it 
belligerent optimism but you call it 
something else psychotic optimism 
psychotic optimism right like having 
that psychotic optimism I think was 
probably my biggest asset in the process 
with you because I'm very extroverted 
I'm able to meet people very easily in 
real life but then in the online world 
it was like well I have to be really 
really optimistic that there are still 
great guys out there even in their 40s 
right or 50s like whatever like that in 
my age range that there will be great 
great men out there to me and what I 
love so much is that even after two 
divorces right and you in the process 
before you even met us had become a 
certified dating coach right in addition 
certified divorce coach sorry certified 
dating coach certified divorce coach and 
and a marketing specialist and the fact 
that you could see immediate mediately 
you know the value of having a new fun 
set of photographs right and how the 
marketing in cyberspace brought you so 
many better prospects ultimately right 
people are like oh my God is my dating 
funnel like talk about what happened in 
your funnel month one yeah oh my God 
month one was so fun I mean last summer 
Bella was probably the most fun I've had 
dating ever Bar None I mean oh so it was 
like you know launching the Prof I mean 
doing the photo shoot was really fun 
because as you said so I have 20 years 
of a corporate marketing career very 
traditional very much working for big 
companies and after my second divorce I 
needed time I needed to heal and and I 
totally as you know repositioned became 
a certified divorce coach I still work 
with women one-on-one it's a wonderfully 
rewarding U part of my life and part of 
my job I still do love marketing and 
I've started to do more marketing again 
um after you know two and a half years 
of doing the coaching exclusively but 
the the point of all that is I got 
comfortable with doing photo shoots 
because I needed to do a photo shoot for 
my business when I was doing coaching 
I'm like well I need a website I need to 
get I know I hired a stylist I I got 
professional photos so working with you 
to do the the photos was not a big step 
for me it was like okay this is kind of 
fun that we're we're doing this process 
um but I would say in the beginning I 
couldn't believe that just like f like 
setting up a new email address to launch 
myself on Match putting the profile up 
there in the way that you helped me 
write it so positive so many good 
nuggets that anyone any guy on there 
could pick out and start a conversation 
I I I never and I'm really lucky because 
I I met someone early on in the process 
relatively speaking but I never had to 
reach out you know what I mean I just I 
put the profile up there I had so many 
wonderful messages and lots of you know 
creepy messages but that's okay like you 
know so it was like the experience to me 
I felt that was also different and and 
actually this is a big thing that I've 
I've actually since told a lot of people 
who are who are in the online dating 
world I said be really strict with how 
much time you're willing to put into 
this every day you want to take it 
seriously and put energy into it but 
what I learned from Bella is that it it 
was 15 minutes in the morning 15 minutes 
in the evening notifications off so I 
can't tell you I I would have never 
turned notifications off because you 
want to see when somebody's messaging 
you but it's like that ends up it ends 
up taking up a lot of time and I think 
what happens is for me anyway I stopped 
living my life like separate from the 
day it was almost like the dating piece 
of it like sort of overtakes your 
workday it overtakes your evening it 
overtakes kind of everything that's 
going on in your life it would inter you 
know I'd see a notification back in the 
day right like in my 30s I'd see a 
notification from Tinder while I was out 
with girlfriends and it it's distracting 
so it's like having that boundary around 
when you're going to engage so I was 
very good at following that rule I'd go 
on in the morning I'd go on in the 
evening I'd respond to my messages I 
think for the first month I honestly had 
either it was and you guys had told me 
this is a lot you've got you're doing a 
lot very quickly but this is just my 
personality I think I had at least two 
physical dates a week and at least one 
video date per week and I kind of had to 
space them out even more because it was 
getting so overwhelming with my schedule 
but had so many wonderful people in the 
funnel and then sometimes not sometimes 
you have a phone call with someone and 
it's like oh wow no there's just no 
chemistry here let's not go out and 
that's okay and you guys gave me scripts 
every single time to help me have good 
conversation to be really respectful of 
the men who are out there you know when 
you wanted to say no you do it in a kind 
way so I had a blast in the beginning 
and you did and what I want to highlight 
here is something Andrea said that makes 
the difference with so many people that 
we work with it is the mindset piece it 
is the psychotic optimism piece it's 
okay today there might not be anybody 
great in my inbox but I know they're 
coming and having fun with this and 
really not dating from that place of 
scarcity from that fact that all men 
suck nobody likes me I'm not attractive 
enough right that's where we see you 
know that's where it gets harder for 
certain people to continue the dating 
process but it's really approaching it 
with that all right I've got this today 
might not be it but all I have to do is 
date like hell until I find this person 
and have fun and looking at dating as 
something that you put into your daily 
life and I the way I see you is what I 
loved about you is you looked at dating 
in a sense in this new way as a 
privilege which made you so positive 
it's like oh my God I get to do this I 
get to go out on these dates and this 
mindset shift guys if you're listening 
to this this is the key piece right you 
can have the great photos you can have 
the great profile you can do the 15 
minutes in the morning in the evening 
but unless you're really feeling in your 
core happy good and positive about the 
process it becomes hard to continue to 
muster the stamina to do this in a way 
and to also put that positive energy out 
there on your dates and you were killing 
it on your dates it was so much fun it 
was like the summer of Andrea I mean I 
just I had I did I had such a good time 
and you know there were there were 
definitely bad dates mixed in but with 
mostly good dates like mostly really 
interesting people that I met that I 
went out with a lot of First Dates I 
would say I only had a handful of second 
dates but it all felt like a good part 
of the process and um and I met Jason 
pretty early you know pretty early in 
the whole process with you and working 
with you and I think that was wonderful 
I think it was great that I met him but 
you know what given my anxious 
personality style the first few weeks 
were actually not hard it wasn't hard to 
follow the rules right the rules of you 
go out once you know you wait a week to 
go out again there's you know you you 
sort of pace it out really slowly keep 
your funnel going keep the funnel keep 
talking to other people that was 
actually pretty easy we had a wonderful 
first date I mean so much fun just great 
time great conversation and I really I 
was hoping I'm like I want him I want to 
see him again I hope he follows up and 
sure enough he did I mean that night I 
think we ended up texting back and forth 
about how much fun we was like we wanted 
to keep talking but it was like you know 
I didn't obsess over it like we we went 
out a week later maybe I think it was 
like eight days later so we went out the 
next week later in the week and it was 
like I but I I wasn't stressing about it 
because I probably had a date in between 
I was certainly talking to other people 
in between and it wasn't this 
anxiety now I will say about I think it 
was so funny I this is so funny I 
remember I was up at a lakeh house with 
some girlfriends for the week um just we 
were just kind of working there for the 
week and just kind of having fun and you 
know sitting outside and stuff and this 
this this had to event I'll tell you 
exactly how far it was into meeting him 
so we've been going out a little while 
and I had a call with Lindsay on your 
team and I'm like Lindsay I just I like 
him so much I just I don't want to go 
out with anyone else like I just need to 
be done and she goes okay put me on 
speaker phone and open open your 
calendar I'm like why she's like open 
the calendar she goes um look at the 
calendar when was your first date with 
him I'm like July 14th she goes it has 
been 16 days since you've known this man 
you are not going to be exclusive with 
someone that you have met 16 days ago 
and I was like what like you know i' 
that's that was the moment it was really 
hard for me and my anxiety was flaring 
up because I was worried I'm like well 
what if if I keep if I'm wasting time 
with these other people and you know 
what if he finds out I'm dating other 
people and oh my God like we didn't even 
have an exclusivity talk by the way it 
wasn't I wasn't doing anything wrong I 
you know what I mean I was just going 
out but getting through that week with 
with Lindsay and with your team it was 
so helpful to me to lean like you said 
to lean into that anxiety and to just 
confront it because I think from that 
point on I felt less and less anxious as 
time went on and so Jason and I 
continued dating I think we dated for 
about two and a half months before 
finally and and by the way everybody I 
went out with in that time every other 
first date that I had only solidified 
how much I I really liked Jason and I 
had good a good time I had a good time 
not like I didn't have it wasn't you 
know weekly bad dates it was just in 
those two and a half months I think what 
I needed to do was really have the time 
to get to know him without being 
physically involved without being 
exclusive with just going out and having 
a good time and getting to know him and 
getting to know his world as much as I 
could right and then we had that you 
know exclusivity talk and you know I I 
brought it up you guys helped coach me 
on it and it was a it was a hilarious 
night of of Foles that happened we were 
sitting outside on the river in Chicago 
at one of those really beautiful 
restaurants and I was really nervous to 
have this conversation and I was wearing 
this silk really pretty summertime silk 
dress and um the zipper like busted on 
the so like the zipper came off the 
track and I had a jacket on but I was 
hot because I was nervous I'm like oh my 
God my palms are sweaty and I had to 
like go in the bathroom and try to fix 
the zipper and then like I was taking 
the dress all the way off this girl was 
helping me it was hilarious but I I came 
back to the table and I I I I forget 
exactly what I said but it was basically 
like so are we in a relationship kind of 
thing and he looked at me like I was 
insane and he was like of course we are 
you know and it was this whole like you 
know rehearsing the drama but um after 
the broken zipper after the broken 
zipper and then I of course told him I 
he knows all about Smart dating academy 
and of course I've told him all of this 
since you know this this is last year 
but um he just he thinks the whole 
thing's funny he goes Andre I didn't go 
out with anybody after we met he's like 
I was you know he's like no I was really 
really into you and you know he goes I I 
would have waited I would have waited 
six months if you needed to I would have 
waited even longer for you to be ready 
because you're just so wonderful and um 
yeah I I say about Jason um to to women 
who think oh there's no great guys out 
there anymore no Jason is he's he's 45 
he'll be 46 this Saturday he is what I 
call Old School normal like he is from a 
wonderful family he is a good guy he 
says what he means he doesn't do 
anything he doesn't want to do he's not 
pressured into things he he's just a 
normal good person there's no 
he doesn't put on errors he's not you 
know he's just like an really easy guy 
to be with and he's very respectful and 
I oh God sorry no no and I've looked for 
the red flags as you know I mean there's 
been like well could this be something 
could because a lot of paranoia right 
for me based on my experience and I can 
say I mean I'm so incredibly happy with 
him and like I never ever would have met 
him had it not been for Smart dating 
Academy first of all I wouldn't have 
gone on Match wouldn't have thought that 
there'd be a difference of like paying 
for a service versus just doing Bumble 
or something for free not that you can't 
meet a great person I I had great dates 
from Bumble too um but I I just I think 
I was able to attract in someone who is 
so good for me because I was so positive 
psychotically optimistic about the 
process and believed that he was out 
there and he is absolutely and now just 
as one of Andrea's two dating coaches 
Lindsay and I coached her together I 
know you know and she's so lovely and 
cute and you can hear it in her voice 
pulling the rins back and slowing this 
down is no easy feat for dating coaches 
right like Lindsay said you have known 
him for 16 days right and continuously 
week over week for us it's helping 
people to say I know you like him better 
or her better but here's why we're going 
continue to hedge and to date other 
people because everybody's great when 
the sun shines in the dating process but 
suddenly there's no substitute for time 
right when a storm cloud rolls in and 
something goes sideways and there's a 
misunderstanding or a misinterpretation 
how does that person react and what 
we're doing is slowing our horses down 
we have lots of alpha successful people 
like Andrea but it's really kind of 
saying okay let's just hold rain it in 
and make sure that we're looking for all 
of the things and Jason she said is old 
school normal what he also is is what we 
call High GHQ high and good husband 
qualities and working through our system 
we know exactly for each client who 
their particular High GHQ guy is and 
this is a real Touchstone for us to come 
back to does he have all of the 
qualities 
that you have on your marriage map 
contract on your elevator people list 
and we'll get there in a minute and then 
does he have red flags and so this is 
how we navigate through the process 
which I know when you're seeking 
certainty and we're anxious isn't always 
what you want to hear from us no my gosh 
it was ter it was so it was torture at 
the time it was really difficult for you 
guys to say to me you've known him 16 
days Andrew you've known him 20 days 
you've known him 25 days I mean there 
but I will say it's because most people 
don't date like that most people don't 
date slow and you guys kept telling me 
things that were so logical right like 
90 days is not that long of a time to 
wait to date multiple people in the 
scheme of your life but in the moment 
it's it's logical but in the moment it's 
really difficult to follow that advice 
because of all the feelings you're 
feeling so I think that the I I think 
that the dating coaching was like the 
necessary almost like intervention or 
like the kind of therapy I needed for 
myself because again I don't think I 
could have done it on my own even with 
the knowledge even with the knowledge of 
saying okay this is going to give you a 
better result just slow it down even 
having been married to a clinical you 
know sociopath narcissist and people 
come in so often you know and maybe you 
felt the same like I know the signs of a 
narcissist I was married to one and 
ultimately but what the pull is it's to 
do that all over again because with 
regard to knowledge is one thing right 
people say knowledge is power I beg to 
differ execution is power doing the 
right thing even when it's hard to get 
the right thing done that's where you 
step into your power and you stepped 
into your power as you started to do 
things right sometimes it's hard you're 
sitting in the uncertainty sometimes 
begrudgingly like why can't we just be 
exclusive at the eighth date we're like 
because you're not ready yet the 
relationship isn't ready and it's not 
necessarily that you're not ready but we 
need to observe the dynamic between the 
two of you but I can tell you as Lindsay 
and I would weakly concur we're like 
this Jason guy looks pretty good we've 
got a few more weeks but let's make sure 
that he keeps he keeps ticking things 
off so tell us now you guys 
met la like 
summer uh mid July we met mid July of 
last year so yeah we've been it's uh 
yeah it's coming up on a year and I I 
mean my Revelation on elevator people 
has been I mean Jason is to a te the ele 
I mean when you explain elevator people 
in your Ted Talk that I came to listen 
to in Chicago live which was such a 
privilege and when you talked about that 
in the coaching he is the epitome right 
so when I have uncertainty about my 
career well you know because I'm a mar 
I'm I've got corporate marketing I've 
got coaching I don't know what I'm doing 
next I've got lots of options and you 
know he sits there and says to me Andrea 
don't stress about this one thing going 
on right now he's like you are so 
talented the right people will find you 
right like I mean just to have somebody 
who really understands me who really 
listens to me he he just he knows me so 
well and cares about me so much I have a 
very cute story on New Year's Eve um 
Jason and I were out you know it's our 
first New Year it's first holiday season 
together we had met each other's 
families which was amazing and just it 
was just wonderful F and New Year's Eve 
I was the designated driver so we had 
gone out to dinner and we drove out to 
the suburbs where his friend works we 
went to dinner and then we drove back to 
the city kind of at like it was like 
11:30 at night so it's almost midnight 
we went to the bar in my neighborhood 
and he you know he'd had a few drinks 
and you know we had said we loved each 
other before but it was it was really 
sweet right before 
midnight I said um he said I love you 
and I said I love you too and he said no 
no no no no you don't understand how 
much I love you and how much you mean to 
me and it just was this like wonderful 
moment of this no no no you don't 
understand and I thought oh my gosh I've 
never had somebody who's so emotive and 
who's so just authentic with his 
feelings he's you know not afraid to 
express himself and he's so supportive 
of me so you know I mean for me it's 
like my messages for all of your 
listeners is just don't give up and 
don't ever feel like you're not going to 
meet a Wonder ful person out there for 
you keep your standards High be 
confident in what you're putting out 
there I mean that it it's out there for 
you even if you've been divorced twice 
like me even if you've been divorced 
three times four times I don't care no 
matter what you've been through there's 
always an opportunity to really shift 
that complete confidence in yourself and 
to put yourself out there in a new way 
that's going to attract a different 
result oh I have Goosebumps like I I WR 
like no you don't understand how much I 
love you like I really love you and how 
different this does this relationship 
feel than any of your previous ones well 
it just feels so authentic and again 
it's like with the with people who have 
been with narcissists I think what you 
have to remember is that the narcissist 
needs you to fulfill something in his or 
her life the authentic old school normal 
guy just wants you in his life or her 
life because that's just they're they're 
just you know it's just it's this 
difference I felt like I was you know 
with my exes like I had to fulfill some 
kind of fantasy which by the way they 
were doing the same for me so it's like 
when you're truly happy and you're 
putting yourself out there and you just 
want somebody to be with you and to 
share your life with you that's when it 
all comes together that's what's really 
different oh I love that and what would 
you say to someone who doesn't think it 
can happen for them whether they are 
doing it on their own they're working 
with Smart dating Academy they're you 
know they're just coming out a divorce 
what advice would you give any man and 
woman about finding love I I think you 
have to tap into the most optimistic 
part of yourself and even if you said 
well I've tried that mental strategy 
before to be optimistic and it didn't 
work try it again reflect right I don't 
care if you I I'm a big as a coach 
obviously I'm a big believer in like 
mantras and you know doing things 
repeatedly write down on a Post-It every 
single morning I will meet a quality 
person in my life and put it on your 
nightstand and when you wake up in the 
morning read it out loud to yourself and 
when you go to bed at night read it out 
loud to yourself whatever that Mantra is 
what like whatever you have to do to 
start believing that it is out there for 
you that's when you're going to attract 
it in is when you really believe it and 
you really stay positive with yourself 
and like I said for you my friend you 
came in and Lindsay and I could feel 
your psychotic optimism which led to you 
having so much fun which led to you 
finding love and frankly there's a 
there's a component of the universe that 
just says this was your time for Jason 
to enter your life and you guys he is 
cute as a freaking button they're 
adorable as a couple and Andrea thank 
you so much for sharing your wisdom with 
us and for sharing your inspiration with 
our listeners so I'm so excited and I 
have the privilege of calling you a 
client but more importantly my friend so 
and I can't wait to do a double date 
with you and Jason oh likewise well 
thank you for having me on the show this 
has been wonderful to talk about my 
story so and thank you for all you've 
done for me in the past year oh my gosh 
you're the best 


my mom and dad were watching television 
and saw you on the Steve Harvey Show and 
my poor parents have been my wing people 
forever and we the recipient of most of 
my dating complaints so after seeing you 
on the show they were like you have to 
find this Bella woman she just didn't 
want me to be on her couch anymore 
complaining dating for me had just been 
kind of crappy fixing your picker and 
fixing your beliefs didn't happen 
overnight in so many ways was a lot of 
the stuff that I said oh I I wouldn't 
date this guy you know he doesn't have a 
master's degree he doesn't have these 
things all these things that were on the 
list he opened my eyes to like what 
really matters for me as I say it back 
and as I've told people the story over 
Years A lot of people you know their 
eyes widen it's like oh my goodness but 
as it was happening this just felt like 
we were making decisions together almost 
from the beginning my favorite word for 
a relationship it's easy yes very 
complicated but also very 
easy 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart taters welcome back to Peak dating 
week I hope you've been enjoying the 
episodes that we've been dropping with 
these mini little podcast episodes so 
um for those of you that might be new to 
us I don't know if you're aware of what 
Smart dating Academy does but we have 
process and procedure when we put logic 
and love into the dating process and we 
become your personal trainers for your 
love life we've had zero divorces in 14 
years and we love love we love helping 
people and have the best jobs in the 
world which is helping you to find love 
and to date smarter so today as part of 
this mini podcast series week I want to 
talk to you about how do you take things 
slow so they last 
so 
anything that usually I'm going to speak 
in generalities what starts fast ends 
fast easy calm easy go fast and furious 
flames out there's so many old adages 
around this so how do you take things 
slow and here's really the question that 
I have what does slow mean and if you 
could see me right now I'm putting the 
word slow in air quotes so slow to some 
people means two dates okay I've heard 
stories you wouldn't believe where 
people think you know 
being at each other's houses on day two 
for you know 24 hours is fine in our 
vernacular and our lexicon at SDA slow 
means three months before exclusivity 
okay that means 15 16 I don't know plus 
dates before you decide to become 
exclusive with somebody now the question 
is 
how the heck do you do that so 
the first thing I want you to think 
about doing is the first way to slow 
things down in the dating process is to 
have multiple options okay I did a mini 
episode two weeks ago on how to build a 
dating funnel and why to build a dating 
funnel so what is a dating funnel for 
those of you who haven't listened to it 
it means you've got many options that 
you're dating and how are you getting 
those options there's three major 
pipelines to meeting people right 
meeting people using online dating 
meeting people in real life which means 
on the streets at work at parties at 
meetup groups right IRL as my kids would 
say and then meeting people through 
setups and using your setups from your 
dating board of directors wisely and if 
you haven't heard that check out the 
previous episode to what is a dating 
board of directors and how do you create 
that it's just super connectors in your 
network that you pick because they love 
connecting people and they have a lot of 
connections you put them on your own 
personal dating board and they're 
responsible for setting you up on one 
date a month pretty genius right so 
through these three pipelines meeting 
people in real life having a dating 
board of directors and the apps you 
start to create a funnel with options is 
this easy no is it doable 100 think if 
this is like a fitness plan right where 
you want to do some cardio you want to 
do some weights you've got to do 
different things you've got to eat well 
right so you've got to do kind of three 
different things to start to build your 
Fitness and in the dating world you want 
to press on all three of those levers to 
start to build your dating funnels so 
now you've got lots of options right and 
when you have options you tend to settle 
less now a big problem that we see in 
our practice is people want to do two 
three dates and one person clearly 
stands out and then they want to do what 
shut off their funnel that is a big 
mistake we always say famous laugh words 
at Smart dating Academy don't shut off 
your dating funnel because you're tired 
because one person looks so much better 
than the rest at three dates you could 
have an old a dating pattern your picker 
could be broken so if somebody looks 
good to you at three days and you've had 
a history of picking the wrong people 
over your dating lifetime let the buyer 
beware okay so so you've got lots of 
options and now what you want to do is 
date these people slowly okay you've got 
to keep your funnel going even if 
somebody's looking good at eight dates 
nine dates ten dates keep other people 
coming into your funnel and remember 
you're dating people slowly we're not 
having sex with them so it doesn't feel 
disingenuous right once you get to 15 16 
20 any dates you can have the 
conversation about being exclusive and 
that means you are you have a title 
Partners boyfriend girlfriend girlfriend 
whatever you whatever your flavor is for 
a title but you're not dating other 
people right and that's what exclusivity 
means we're not going to talk about 
polyamory and all of those other things 
we're talking about one-on-one 
monogamous relationships okay now how do 
you get there right from date two or 
date three if you're a fast and furious 
person what you want to think about 
doing is planning all different kinds of 
dates that keep you out of each other's 
houses okay keep yourself out of 
situations maybe you know making out in 
a car leads to you know what in the car 
I'm you know again keep yourself out of 
dangerous spaces and how do you do that 
be creative and plan your dates go on 
walks go to coffee go to new wine places 
go go to carnivals right go play pool go 
go bowling go to an arcade see what this 
person is like under competitive 
situations what are they like when they 
win what are they like when they lose 
right and ideally it's just you and this 
person you're not bringing them out with 
the whole group of your friends because 
your friends while they mean well 
they're not professional daters right 
with my clients at Smart dating Academy 
that are working with us one-on-one we 
have them black box their dating lives 
with us that means when we help them and 
you know we're in the weeds we're 
helping you exactly curate the people in 
your funnel we're having our clients 
only tell us 
what's happening in their dating lives 
and the only time they introduce 
somebody to their friends or family is 
one we have signed off on their 
exclusive Boo and then you're like oh 
surprise guys let me introduce you to my 
new boyfriend and everyone's like what 
or my new girlfriend what so that's how 
we help people to slow things down and 
get into those healthy relationships but 
be creative about the kinds of dates 
that you plan and it's not weird to not 
go to each other's houses right and you 
can have these conversations 
authentically with the person you're 
with about why you want to take things 
slowly why if on date four a nice 
gentleman offers to cook you dinner at 
his house think about it what happens at 
his house right you're like oh my God 
someone's going to take care of me 
you're gonna cook me dinner no one's 
ever done that for me and now think 
about you go to someone's house it's 
their Turf there's a bed there's a sofa 
there's some Frank Sinatra playing 
there's a couple of great bottles of red 
wine and you know how that story often 
ends right and so don't put yourself in 
those situations okay take things slowly 
plan fun dates Pace your 15 dates over 
three months we have lots of dating 
trajectories dating score cards tools 
that we give our clients and obviously 
coaching that helps you to navigate that 
process adroitly so you are not hitting 
your head against a brick wall all of 
the time so 
um if you don't know how to do this okay 
this is a mini podcast episode and you 
want help around this because this all 
sounds logical right it's like if I tell 
you if you want to lose weight you gotta 
eat less move more right everybody knows 
that but so many people hire personal 
trainers to actually keep them 
accountable and help them to make good 
decisions if you need help around this 
this is what we do with Smart dating 
Academy that's our livelihood we do 
one-on-one coaching we hold your hands 
through the process we make it fun and 
we help you get to those 15 dates in a 
fun way and you're not getting 15 dates 
with somebody who's a narcissist or an 
avoidant or a wolf in sheep's clothing 
if they've passed through 15 dates with 
me or Lindsay or Eileen I promise you 
this is a good potential partner so I 
hope this helps you on how to take 
things slow build a dating funnel push 
on all three lovers date multiple people 
at the same time don't pull don't pull 
the plug on other people because you've 
had three or four good dates with 
someone you've got to persevere you 
might be dating five or six people at 
the same time I did an IG live uh by the 
time you're hearing this last week and 
somebody asks is it too many to have 
five or six in your dating funnel I'm 
like no it's not too many at all right 
it's like can you have too many job 
offers you can't can you have too many 
people in your dating funnel no you 
can't because the more options you have 
you know what the more selective you are 
and the less likely you are to do the s 
word subtle so if you need help around 
this join our join Smart dating Academy 
sign up for our free newsletter fill out 
a contact form tell us that you're ready 
to invest in yourself and get a 
one-on-one personal trainer for your 
dating life you will never regret it and 
so until next time I bid you much love 
lots of hugs and a healthy dose of 
psychotic optimism that you can take 
things slow do what I'm telling you 
follow these steps build a funnel and 
start to date in a smarter slower way 
see you soon 


today I am listening and I brought in a 
good friend of mine and he's also in the 
dating space for those of you who don't 
know Tripp is an international dating 
coach for men and he created a system 
called the Ted system to help shy men 
confidently attract the women they 
desire so so Ted is tension which means 
building sexual tension how do you build 
sexual tension very simple okay eye 
contact is a great way to start eye 
contact okay being more of a challenge 
to a woman so if you're kind of chasing 
her or you're showing too much interest 
then the sexual tension dies so you have 
to be a little bit of a challenge right 
to play cool yeah and then just general 
flirting like you know you tease her a 
little bit you kind of play a little bit 
it's like the antidote to the nice guy 


tell us about your life your marriage 
what happened and how you ended up here 
I had a great husband Dave and he had a 
glioblastoma multiform but basically a 
supreme tumor so he died in November of 
2016. and this guy from high school 
shows up I saw him on Facebook and saw 
wherever he was in his family and all 
that well we've been divorced for 
several years he just says hey I just 
wanted to check on you you know how are 
you doing since Dave passed away and 
sometimes I get to Tuscaloosa I'd love 
to come to the football game and so he 
comes riding in back to Tuscaloosa on 
his White Horse but then little pieces 
of it going bad so we put you online 
you've got a new profile it's a great I 
messaged him first and I don't know it 
was just very comforting I see Christy 
on Facebook with the ring uh hello 
congratulations and that's how we just 
reckon connected in the last few weeks 


[Music] 
the other thing that really helped was 
kind of act like you've already found 
the person or that you know they're out 
there there were times where I was like 
oh my God this is so depressing I'm 
never going to meet him I'm sick of 
looking act as if it's a when not an if 
yes yes negative psychotic optimism 
you've got act like I know he's out 
there all I have to do is keep running 
the Iron Man stay on the path and I will 
find him and that's because primes you 
it puts you in a place of hope and it 
gives you the positivity to be able to 
see someone because if you are down and 
out believing he or she is never going 
to be there you're not going to see 
that 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love hi smart daters 
welcome back Happy Peak dating season I 
hope things are going wonderfully for 
you and that you have enjoyed the other 
three episodes that we've done just this 
week alone for you how to pick the best 
dating apps for 
2023 how do you date multiple people at 
once and have a funnel and how can you 
tell that you might be dating a player 
and what the top 10 signs are for today 
what I'm going to tell you is how many 
dates should I give it before I call it 
quits um are you ready CA I'm ready well 
the answer to that is it depends now let 
me lay it all out for you when should 
you when should you call it quit so so 
if you go out on a date with someone 
okay well let me start it with this let 
me tell you first and foremost love is 
going to come to you in an unexpected 
package again love will come to you in a 
beautifully unexpected package and what 
does that mean he or she or they are 
going to be different than what you 
think they are they're going to look 
different they're going to be different 
they might come from a different place 
they might have a totally different 
background ground than you do they might 
have a totally different job than you do 
they might have no interests in common 
with you and yet you still find that 
they're the lid to your pot this person 
will come to you differently than you 
imagined but isn't that s isn't that 
exciting we tell our clients during our 
jump start session which is the first 
way we on board people during our in our 
VIP coaching service is it makes dating 
so much more exciting when you know love 
is going to come to you in an unexpected 
package because they're going to be 
different and it makes casting your net 
out wider a whole lot easier be Broad in 
your searches for height age zip code 
ethnicity religion interests all of 
those things the quantitative things be 
as broad as you can without being untrue 
to yourself so love is going to come to 
you in an unexpected package Broad your 
parameter so you get the most people 
into your dating funnel right every inch 
every year every mile you expand your 
radius of Interest you're going to bring 
in dozens hundreds perhaps even 
thousands of different candidates right 
so know that love is going to come to 
you in an unexpected package so give 
people more of the benefit of the doubt 
now what I'm going to tell you is what 
people typically look for and the reason 
they want to get rid of people and get 
rid of people quickly is they're not 
feeling chemistry they're not feeling 
butterflies well if you've been 
listening to me for a long enough time 
you know that butterflies in the dating 
World especially on the first or second 
date are bad they're your body telling 
you that there's fear there's anxiety 
this person reminds you of somebody that 
you knew in the past right because fear 
and anxiety are very closely related to 
excitement right and so a lot of times 
when we feel those heavy butterflies 
where our stomach is flipping over 
that's a sign that this person person 
may not be good for us but that's what 
we're often looking for in the dating 
world and that's why we want to throw 
people back if we're not feeling that 
whoosh of chemistry but just know ladies 
and gentlemen chemistry can be sparked 
at any given time by something 
intellectual by something emotional I 
had a client once years ago who was 
going on a fifth date with a guy she 
wasn't feeling the chemistry she wasn't 
sure if there was any physical 
attraction but he said to her and they 
were going to go on their sixth date can 
you meet me at this building downtown 
and she happened to be in Chicago he 
says I'm doing a mentoring session for 
Big Brothers little brothers and just 
come into the building and meet me there 
and then we'll go out to dinner after 
that and she thought okay sure I'll go 
meet him there so she poked around and 
she found the room where he was 
mentoring the little brother and she was 
standing outside the door and she heard 
the soulfulness and the authenticity and 
the care and the love that this man was 
mentoring this boy who didn't have any 
parents just a guardian at this point 
and was lost on his way that my client 
suddenly started to go oh my God he's 
amazing and she started to feel like she 
had a little bit of a crush on him and 
had some excitement about him and 
started to feel some chemistry so 
different things you guys can throw that 
chemistry over the line so if you're 
still interested in somebody you're 
having fun but you're not feeling that 
physical chemistry yet continue to date 
that person until you see a red flag now 
that red flag might come out on day one 
date one it might come out on date two 
it might come out on date six or date 10 
but as soon as you start to see red 
flags I either you cut bait right away 
based on what the red flag is or give 
that person potentially one more date to 
see if there's another red flag because 
it's like cockroaches once you detect 
one you know there's a whole bunch more 
if you detect a red flag give it a 
yellow flag and if it's not a bad one 
and you're not sure give it one more day 
but what are red flags somebody that 
seems really angry that seems Negative 
they have nothing nice to say about 
anybody maybe you're out to dinner and 
they're mean to the weight staff they're 
really short to them they're really 
really nice to you but they're you know 
just edgy and abrasive when their meal 
doesn't come out right or when the valet 
doesn't come quickly enough it's 
blizzarding in Chicago and it's freezing 
cold and if that person gets mean and 
edgy with the person trying to bring the 
car just know that someday that or 
quickly that anger is going to turn on 
you right somebody who plays the victim 
they hate their job they hate their boss 
they hate you know their ex their exes 
turn their kids against them anybody who 
seems to play the victim is certainly a 
red flag a red flag is also ladies and 
gentlemen someone who just sits there 
and they you know like I said on my 
podcast with Larry Kaufman they show up 
and they throw up they have no interest 
in getting to know you they have no 
interest in asking you questions even if 
you redirect the conversation like oh 
would you like to know something about 
me or that reminds me of a time if they 
just continue to come back to themselves 
that's definitely a yellow if not a red 
flag and if you sense this person has 
troubled relationships with everybody 
around them they don't have a lot of 
friends or they don't have anything nice 
to say about the people in their lives 
they've cut things off with their kids 
with their exes with their colleagues 
this is a person who probably has red 
flags and another red flag is someone 
who says that they've cheated on people 
in the past or I'm going to throw out 
another red flag somebody says that 
they've always been cheated on and they 
haven't done any work on themselves to 
understand why so all of these things 
there's a thousand red flags and these 
are the things that we teach you in our 
one-on-one dat coaching practice but for 
purposes of this mini episode I wanted 
to let you know when do you throw 
someone back to the pond okay if just 
know again this is all related love is 
going to come to you in an unexpected 
package keep trying to date this person 
if there are no red flags to see if the 
chemistry can build and after 8 10 11 12 
dates until the thought of this person 
holding your hands or trying to kiss you 
makes you screamish or ick or makes you 
want to throw up okay you can be done 
with this person right and that's when 
you know the chemistry might not flip 
over the line or if this person throws 
down red flags you can end that 
relationship right then and there or 
give it one more date to see if more red 
flags come out so in general there's no 
one right number to get rid of someone 
or when you should stop dating somebody 
this is a very fluid process and 
remember we don't want you getting 
exclusive with anybody until 15 plus 
dates over 3 to four months slow and 
steady wins the race don't be too quick 
to throw somebody back to the pond if 
you're not feeling the physical 
chemistry because remember just like my 
client watching the guy mentoring you 
can have emotional intellectual 
spiritual some kind of chemistry that 
can tip that physical chemistry over the 
line for those of you who don't know 
Andy my husband and I of 25 years and I 
were good friends zero chemistry for 
years before we started dating until I 
got my mental house in order and 
realized what a great person he was and 
I stopped dating red flaggy people I 
didn't feel the attraction right so that 
attraction for you two can grow so moral 
of the story if there are red flags cut 
it off right then and there or give that 
person one more date if it's a yellow 
flag and not a dangerous red flag and if 
you continue to get to like this person 
more and more keep dating them until you 
know that there's absolutely no hope of 
the chemistry flipping over I'm not 
saying that you should date this person 
for 6 years 
like Andy and me but I'm saying give it 
a Skippers try chemistry can flip over 
the line now one of the love stories 
that we have helped to co-author at 
Smart dating Academy started off with 
the bang started off with this person 
saying this is the best date I've ever 
been on I've got a massive amount of 
chemistry I know I've just met my 
soulmate it's slow it's steady there's 
not a lot of chemistry in the beginning 
but we do it slowly steadily over the 
course of several weeks and months to 
see see if that person is good for you 
so when should you throw this person 
back to the pond and end it now you know 
a lots of the behind the scenes at Smart 
dating Academy and if you need help 
building your dating funnel mastering 
online dating before January 8th which 
is the busiest online dating day of the 
year join today walk don't walk run join 
the online dating love lab you can go to 
Smart dating academy.com and click the 
online dating love lab or click the link 
in the browser of the show notes to get 
yourself a space in our love lab if 
you've loved our podcast for the last 
year this is the most economical way to 
be in a small group to learn one- on-one 
how to online date the right way to get 
the Perfect online profile because you 
get access by being part of this online 
dating love lab to the proprietary book 
that only our one-on-one clients get or 
people that participate in the online 
dating love lab which creates the the 
perfect profile for match or Bumble and 
that Baseline text can be used on all of 
the other significant sites and apps 
will teach you how to pose and how to 
take the best photos of yourself so by 
Sunday January 88th in the evening 
during the 800 p.m hour which will be 
the busiest moment of the busiest day 
you can be taking advantage of finding 
love in 2023 and putting your best foot 
forward I hope you enjoyed this episode 
you know when to cut off the dating 
process with someone that might throw 
down red flags or how to let that 
chemistry build slowly and surely don't 
look for butterflies and until tomorrow 
I can't wait to talk to you 
then 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart daters welcome back I as always 
you know me I'm jumping out of my skin 
excited about this episode why because 
this is the first time I've got two 
people 
um with me it's like the Menage à trois 
of podcasts so right I know right I hope 
you didn't crash while you were 
listening to that and so I have today is 
going to be a love story of this 
beautiful stunning and more more 
importantly beautiful on the inside 
client named Mindy and I've also brought 
Lindsay art Smart dating our own heart 
and soul back onto the podcast to talk 
to you and Mindy about what it was like 
to be Mindy's personal trainer for love 
through this process spoiler alert Mindy 
was just like you and now Mindy's in 
love so she's gonna share every little 
nugget that helped her along the way 
because ultimately what we want is to 
put more love into the world and more 
importantly put love and a lid to your 
pot in your world so Mindy Lindsay 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast 
thank you for having me I'm so excited 
I am so excited to be back and I'm so 
excited to see Mindy again because it's 
so fun when we get a chance to talk on 
the phone and coach on a regular basis 
to see your lovely face again 
you guys are very lucky Mindy is highly 
coachable and truly delightful in every 
way 
thank you Lindsay thank you I've really 
enjoyed this whole process with both of 
you even starting with Bella and then 
the whole process with Lindsay has just 
been inspiring 
um and I've gained two great friends in 
this whole process as well 
oh my gosh podcast over just kidding so 
that's the best part of our job 
seriously we just we just you get so 
invested with the people that you work 
with and you care so much and it really 
turns into just a really beautiful 
relationship and so I'm really a 
beautiful relationship that we can help 
with and a beautiful friendship yes 
absolutely 
so why don't we do this Mindy kind of 
set the stage for us tell us a little 
bit you know I'm just gonna say 
tell us about you tell us about you kind 
of as a teenager what it was like at 
home you know 
dating all of the things and then you 
know your husband so set the stage 
so growing up I my parents are actually 
still married 54 years oh yay Mom and 
Dad yeah I have an older sister and 
brother so we 
um we had a very loving relationship but 
at the same time I always say to people 
we love hard and we fight hard 
um a strong very Catholic Family that 
um we were very involved with activities 
and our parents were always there 
um and just seeing my Mom and Dad how 
they were towards each other very 
supportive and loving but then there was 
times where there was some tough times 
that I got to witness growing up 
um and seeing how they interacted 
through those hardships 
kind of established possibly my 
long-term relationships of how I I deal 
with 
um relationships with men or even 
friendships or even my family 
um so I was about 16 years old and my 
brother was actually looking for a 
roommate because he was older than me 
and he found this friend and they got 
along and he was actually part of our 
family this this guy for the next couple 
of years and I never thought in a 
million years I would actually end up 
dating him because he was six years 
older than me he did not ask me out 
until I was 19 years old 
and so through high school I really 
never dated I mean I did here and there 
but I really did not have that long-term 
relationship with anybody and 
understanding but then I looked at my 
parents who have been together since 
they were 16 and 17 of like that's what 
I want I want to have a long-term 
relationship for the rest of my life 
so 
um 
my ex-husband Jason and I started dating 
and how he 
pursued me was every single date that we 
went on he brought me a gift which I was 
like wow why am I getting a gift every 
single time or and I was I felt like a 
little naive looking back because I did 
not know what I was doing other than I'm 
going on a date with this older man 
that's well established with his career 
he has his own home 
um just doing things right in my mindset 
of that's what I should be with and my 
family accepted him because he had been 
in my family for so long so they knew 
him so I was comfortable and I was going 
through college and we went through me 
going through college him going through 
career changes and then we ended up 
getting married and I thought this is 
the love of my life you know and with 
him things were just a little bit 
different he came from my family that 
they never fought everything was pushed 
under the rug and then my family was a 
little bit different we fought we fought 
hard work but we loved hard and we would 
come back and everything would be fine 
um so establishing that relationship was 
a little bit different because we had to 
come to terms with how are we going to 
raise our kids and so raising our kids 
we have two beautiful children I have a 
17 year old son 18 year old daughter 
back to back and we are great parents it 
just through that time I was also 
teaching and him having his career and I 
felt like I had the Best of Both Worlds 
at that time in my life 
when the kids were growing up when the 
kids were growing up I was able to take 
care of my babies at home during the day 
each at night and I was loving that 
aspect 
um there was still fighting with my 
family there was all turmoil as far as 
you know how you're doing this and 
whatnot and I thought I had this 
supportive person but really I had this 
man that just 
kept wanting more out of life and never 
was just happy with what his career path 
was and I just kind of kept going with 
the flow I had never lived on my own I 
had never had a roommate this was the 
only person in my life yeah that I had 
lived with and been with 
um all you knew and I just that's all I 
knew I knew from going from my parents 
house to his house 
and so I really didn't know and we 
decided to open up a business 
I had no idea what I was doing he he 
really pushed it and I wasn't ready for 
it because I just wanted to be at home 
with my kids and then teach at night and 
when we opened up the business he really 
just was kind of tunnel vision into his 
business and his career was changing his 
full-time career was changing that was a 
very very well established career yeah 
after a couple years we were doing very 
well as far as the business but I was 
working about 60 hours a week wow kids 
and Mommy 
completely opposite of what I was 
experiencing and I there was a lot of 
times where I just said can we just sell 
the business this is not what I want and 
he insisted we need to keep going 
um and then he went through some dark 
times his dad had passed away and his 
career was definitely having an effect 
on him 
and he went through a very dark place 
where he pushed me out I was nothing to 
him I was not attractive to him 
even as a mom I just felt defeated I 
felt worthless because he just pushed me 
away but in the meantime my office 
manager that I considered a very dear 
friend was going through a divorce so I 
was being there for her but then she was 
being there for me but in the meantime 
this whole process my ex-husband and her 
were talking behind my back for a whole 
year 
and every single time that I would 
question the texting the phone calls the 
meeting up 
they kept saying I don't know what 
you're talking about Mindy we're talking 
about the business oh my God I felt 
crazy I felt like 
is anybody else in this world seeing 
this and me talking to my parents my 
parents were on my side yeah and here 
I'm trying so hard to salvage my 
marriage but at the same time every 
single time I would talk to this office 
manager I would basically tell her what 
I was doing with my husband if this is 
how I'm going to salvage it yeah and 
instead I was the Naggy wife and she was 
the perfect 
friend let's just say that 
um and then at after a year he decided 
to file for divorce and my world was 
just taken away everything the house 
everything was just taken away and I had 
to start over from scratch and never 
paid myself this is the first time I was 
paying myself through the business I had 
to get a house all I could think about 
is I need to survive I need to get 
through this with my kids take care of 
them 
um and then also take care of this 
business because this is all I know at 
this point even with my degree this is 
all I knew wow you were completely gas 
lit yes you were lied to by two really 
important people in your life that you 
had trusted you were confiding in and 
then he files I mean my like I have 
chills listening to this 
yes I mean there was a time that I just 
was seeking any type of help to salvage 
that marriage and I remember the moment 
that the office manager I knew it 
clicked in my head because still I was 
kind of if I'm offensive is this really 
happening and I was talking about 
parenting of co-parenting and 50 custody 
and she said he deserves those kids just 
as much as you do and oh oh so you 
started to realize there was really more 
behind the Betrayal yes you were like 
wait what you were team Mindy five 
seconds ago what happened and it was 
like the Jekyll hide at a certain point 
right and how ironic she wouldn't allow 
her ex-husband to see her kids so that's 
when I knew 
oh that's right 
oh look at you this yeah I'm done yeah 
I'm done ever speaking about anything to 
you at this point and I had nothing to 
prove as far as the cheating and then 
what was going on 
um but she ended up quitting and that's 
when I had to sit down my staff and say 
you know what she has she's gone and I 
know you're all friends with her because 
she portrayed this perfect perfect woman 
um and I said I will never speak of her 
again and that next year when I'm going 
through my divorce one by one my 
employees were coming to me saying we 
had no idea because she was trying to 
sabotage me and my ex kept saying I 
don't know what you're talking about 
so they just kept this role of 
there's something going on but yet 
um there was and people are starting to 
see it I wasn't the only one I did not 
feel crazy anymore at that time well I 
think that that's so important just when 
you're being gaslit that there's 
something in your gut that knows that 
it's not right but when the two closest 
people to you are going to convince you 
it's not how it can be this massive wave 
of confusion and self-doubt and then you 
throw that into being exhausted because 
you're still parenting you're still 
trying to repair your marriage you're 
still building a business it's enough to 
make anybody anybody feel out of just 
out of control in that way and then to 
find out that you were right I'm curious 
like 
how did that impact you trusting your 
gut moving forward 
I think the trust process moving forward 
was so hard because it wasn't just my 
ex-husband it was yeah a good friend of 
mine and also that helped 
was the face of my business 
um and so relationships with men or 
family members or friendships 
really were hard because I doubted 
myself I doubted 
are they really going to come through 
are they really going to be there for me 
are they going with their words their 
actions and their words are they meeting 
yeah um so for me I was just in 
television though I just kept going and 
there were three people in my life that 
I only confided in at that time and you 
know I was seeking therapy I needed 
therapy to get through this because I 
was 
heartbroken that here I thought this was 
supposed to be the love of my life 
looking at my children them being so 
little and not understanding what's 
going on and also seeing this woman that 
was my best friend 
I don't understand 
karma karma I know and the funny thing 
is is now that they're older they have a 
voice and they're talking about it more 
because they said Mom when we were 
little we felt like we didn't have a 
voice because we couldn't say anything 
about the situation and it's just it's 
heartbreaking because you as a parent 
you want to protect them and you want to 
get them through that hard time and gosh 
I was so vulnerable with them was 
telling them you know I love you I care 
about you I know your dad does too and 
we care about you together as parents 
um but we're just not going to work out 
and you're gonna be okay we're here for 
you but just hearing them now that 
they're older I'm hearing a lot more of 
what they went through 
and um you know it's eye-opening right 
now you know and they're such a good mom 
I mean that's that's what kids need to 
hear and and so hard because they don't 
give us the manual so no they don't they 
do not they would I'm still waiting for 
a dating version quarantine 
um that would be great 
so Mindy after that relationship and 
your trust is shaken and you are coming 
from this Foundation where you thought 
you were with the love of your life and 
you face this massive betrayal 
how did that inform the next big 
relationship you found yourself into 
like what tell us a little bit about the 
next guy who had the name that I always 
joke 
all blank or bad but you could tell tell 
us a little bit about this guy 
you know I I was at a point in my life 
where my mom was like you need to get on 
someone dating sites and I'm like I have 
no idea what I'm doing I've never dated 
before and so I you know I got on us I 
got a match that was the very first one 
that I ever got on I was kind of 
overwhelmed 
um but I I did meet some good guys I met 
some scary guys yeah but again I had no 
idea what I was doing and I think I was 
not healed at all I was not healed I was 
still very emotional and then all of a 
sudden it was probably eight months 
later 
this guy came in and he's very handsome 
and his name was Chad and 
that that name that we just don't really 
like sorry for all the good Chads in the 
world oh sorry I always I know sorry for 
all the good ones I always joke with all 
Chads are bad all Chads are bad hey 
quick question to put this into 
perspective you get divorced you're in 
therapy how long until you hopped onto 
the sites like what was the time frame 
like bring us to pre present time in the 
story I I think 
he filed in August and I was out of the 
house by October okay and it was by 
December like it was New Year's December 
31st that I got on Match just to say 
because my mom oh gosh my mom she just 
kept pushing because she just wanted to 
get me out of that mindset of being in a 
depressive mode I guess and she just 
wanted to seek 
me happy 
um but that was probably December 
January but really I had no idea what it 
was doing and I did not meet Chad until 
June 
um so it took a long time 
um but I was still I was not right of 
course 
after divorce yeah or 12 weeks after he 
filed that you're on the apps more or 
less I was not ready and and looking 
back that is one thing that I suggest to 
all women is take your time heal get 
through that those moments but I met 
Chad and he came on so strong 
um 
he 
he would text me and text me and text me 
wanting to get to know me and it took a 
little bit for him to actually 
physically meet me because he was two 
hours away but he worked here 
um it was it was a weird dynamic but 
once he came on it was 
flowers and showing up and just saying 
you are he I think after three weeks he 
said I want to marry you and I was like 
I mean we had gone to a game in St Louis 
and they got these I guess the rings 
that you earn when you know the baseball 
team wins and he gave it to me he goes 
If This Were a ring I'm gonna give it to 
you 
and I want to marry you and I'm like 
um new weeks in a few weeks in and I to 
me I was like 
okay well he really likes me 
um but I'm not ready to get married the 
papers aren't even signed yet my kids 
I'm still you have not been introduced 
to my kids like there was so much going 
on my head but still I was so vulnerable 
and I trusted him and I felt safe with 
him because he was saying all the right 
things 
and after two months I got to see the 
real version of him and it was a little 
scary it was alcohol induced and I was 
not drinking I just saw this vicious 
side and this temper tantrum and I'm 
like no way I'm done 
um and I sat him down I said this is not 
what I want for my kids but yet 
I kind of laid low a little bit and then 
he just kept coming back he would come 
back really strong and loving and I'm 
going to be here for you 
and then it would go back to his old 
habits and I think for me I still was 
not healed because I was not strong 
enough to say goodbye shutting the door 
I don't want to see you ever again and 
so that was on and off for a while and 
he ended up moving here 
um to try to see if things worked out 
and I will tell you the truth 
the emotional and mental abuse that he 
put in my mind 
did not help at all I had gone through 
therapy and I thought I was strong 
enough and putting my foot down 
um it was it just kept he was just kept 
going to his old habits and I was 
allowing that I was allowing that to 
happen and I kept thinking he's going to 
change if I do this he's going to change 
he wasn't changing and I think there was 
a moment that kind of hit me with my 
children because I knew of him he just 
wouldn't really come around and there 
was a tornado drill at in our 
neighborhood and we're in the closet and 
then I hadn't really spoken to him and 
he actually was calling his name came 
across my phone and my kids looked down 
and they said don't answer it 
because he was calling me to check on me 
and the kids okay so that's an 
eye-opening experience when your kids 
are saying don't answer it yes again 
they didn't like him they did not like 
him and they still are so thankful that 
he is not in my life because again they 
were so young at one time that they 
couldn't really speak up and now I hear 
so much and I'm 
I wish that I was more open with their 
feelings too because because they could 
see that I was hurt and I was crying but 
I would never tell them really why I was 
crying I would just step in another room 
being that protective mom but yet my 
kids are watching and they're listening 
was it alcohol driven so when he would 
get drunk he would get mean and threaten 
and say awful things like is that what 
was going on just to put it to clarify 
it in my mind yes a lot of alcohol even 
my parents noticed how much alcohol he 
would take in like we would be at their 
pool and the fights he was just vicious 
he was threatening to me in my life my 
reputation 
everything and so it got to a point that 
I got scared I got scared of maybe I can 
just be friends with him and we will 
just have that friendship relationship 
and because I was so scared of what he 
could do yeah and finally I just had 
enough and I said enough's enough I'm 
going to therapy again I'm going to be 
stronger I started reading self-help 
books I started listening to Bella on 
the Instagrams during covid and I just 
started relating to other women's 
stories and I thought if they can get 
through this so can I yeah because you 
never think that you're going to be in 
those shoes and then start listening to 
other women you're like if they can get 
out I can get out and it was abuse and 
it might have not been that physical 
abuse it was that emotional a verbal 
abuse that I couldn't take I I I told 
him one time you my soul is broken my 
soul oh no desire at all to ever be with 
a man see a man 
because it was just traumatizing to me 
and it's still I'm still having that 
those trust issues and it's not only 
from my ex-husband yeah him because I 
confided in him my world my stories my 
pain and he would use it against me 
against you I'm in a self-sabotage you 
I'm going to use it against you I'm 
going to hurt you yeah and this is what 
narcissists do and if you look at you'd 
been in this relationship that your 
marriage has started off you were young 
but then the behavior turned and you 
started getting gas lit and there was a 
lot of inconsistencies and a lot of 
blaming and that behavior starts to 
become familiar and so then you start 
dating when you're Raw what do you do 
you gravitate towards what's familiar 
and that's very normal to sort of say so 
when somebody comes on strong and you 
haven't had this attention and you've 
had it is like shining a light it's 
intoxicating it's so understandable why 
people fall into that and this is a lot 
of reasons why if you had married in 
second year a lot of second marriages 
will end in divorce if these patterns 
aren't addressed and so 
his Charming side but what I think is 
super interesting I think the listeners 
really should note this Behavior came 
out about two months in and what we'll 
tell you is it's usually it's around 
before around months three months four 
there's usually a big crack in the armor 
and it's a good indicator that 
something's amiss and we call it sort of 
the tip of the iceberg and then you give 
things time you start revealing a whole 
of other red flags and 
you know I mean you're not alone with 
this it happens all the time and the 
fact that you were so brave to end the 
relationship that you were Brave to 
really look at yourself and look at what 
you want to do to improve get the help 
you needed get the therapy stand up for 
yourself run a still run a successful 
business and be there for your kids I 
mean wow hats off to you you are 
Superwoman well thank you I think it 
took a lot of being vulnerable with 
people around me that care about me and 
love me and looking out for me putting 
my kids first and putting me first of 
this is not healthy I mean it was 
physically my life my body everything it 
was just changing 
um and so that's why I just had to get 
out and it was very toxic and 
people women are very brave to get out 
of those relationships and I wish more 
and more people were upfront about what 
they're going through that way they have 
people behind them supporting them to 
help them get out absolutely and and one 
thing that I I love what you said you 
know it's like your parents had a great 
marriage but we love hard and we fight 
hard so from your family background 
you had a relationship you had I can 
only imagine as a kid what you would 
think is love can be hard right and so 
you're willing to withstand all of this 
stuff with your ex-husband until that 
Breaking Point happens Chad comes in 
you're like okay again love is hard love 
requires fighting so but at a certain 
point and how long did your relationship 
with Chad last ultimately ultimately it 
was on and off for three years three 
years right and this is three years like 
you said you're healing you're going 
through therapy you had been through 
this again but those like Lindsay said 
those patterns of familiarity and those 
core beliefs love is hard there is 
fighting right there will be trauma and 
then gravitating towards people that are 
familiar and abusive you're a beautiful 
smart educated person it's like this can 
happen to every single one of us yes 
that's right and and so what was your 
point where you're like enough is enough 
and and what brought you to Instagram 
and let's kind of flip into where the 
light started to shine in your life 
you know Bella I had heard about you 
prior to covid and there was you know 
little things that you would post but 
then it was during covid obviously we're 
all in our homes and 
um I was still 
working 
however your podcasts are excuse me your 
Instagrams we're going on Thursday 
evenings and I was working so I was like 
running home to get the tail end of your 
Instagram but then the next day I would 
just play it and listen to it 
um there was a lot that you know people 
were promoting their books I would get 
their books I am like listening to 
everything Bella has to say and going 
yes I agree with her yes I've been 
through that oh my gosh this is me and 
so for the next year I just kept 
listening to you and what you were 
saying and finally it was November 
December that I felt like 2022 is going 
to be my year my kids are getting older 
they're going to be moving out of a 
house and for college and I thought this 
is the time for me I want to do it the 
right way I know that I've really tried 
hard to date but I'm not doing it the 
right way I am going into it you know 
completely of I have no idea what I'm 
doing so that's when I reached out to 
Bella and I'm so glad I did because 
it was the best investment I've ever 
made because it was about me and my 
process and what my traumas have I've 
gone through I mean gosh sitting down 
with Lindsay for you know just to get to 
know my past and my presence and what I 
need to be looking forward into my 
dating world really has helped navigate 
where I am today and that's not just in 
a relationship but that's how I see how 
I approach my business or my family or 
friendships it's I'm really just sit 
back and I think about things of how I 
deal with them 
so that's where I'm at today 
oh well let's flip back you know tell us 
what what happened so you decide to make 
this investment and we're excited I know 
you came to Chicago you did your photo 
shoots I mean you're dazzling and 
stunning and those photos were 
spectacular was that a fun day 
oh my gosh I was the most giddy little 
girl ever that day 
I mean first of all in Chicago in 
February it was like negative six 
degrees 
I tell you guys come do this in the fall 
don't wait till January February okay 
but I will tell you your group of women 
that come together made me feel and I 
know I've said this before like 
Cinderella and made me feel so 
comfortable that day 
um just the whole process it was just so 
much fun it was like a girl day we're 
dressing up or taking pictures I felt 
like a million dollars that day of how I 
looked and how I felt I just felt so 
confident that day 
um and like I said they made me feel so 
comfortable and we got to know each 
other and you know establish a 
relationship again it's just getting to 
know them and that whole process and 
also just taking my mind away from my 
reality was really great just to get 
away and focus on just me and knowing 
that this is this is going to be my 
future this is what we're setting myself 
up for was just a fantastic day for me 
in my confidence and who I was and just 
everything yeah 
yeah like a butterfly and you hit the 
reset button it's like okay now I have 
these two people who are just gonna 
support either side and really help 
watch and make sure that they're no 
repeating of the past patterns and 
there's no missteps 
yeah your photos I mean really wow your 
photos were fantastic just another side 
note I love the photo I loved Michelle I 
mean they were amazing both of them they 
just knew and I'm like they're going 
into these different areas and I'm like 
how are we gonna get that shot and it 
came out amazing like it was the coolest 
shots that we were doing and I would 
have never known you know just from that 
perspective so creative 
um my makeup gosh she just kept adding 
different things and I'm like gosh 
you're just making me feel even better 
about myself and I know confidence is 
huge just in general but just adding 
just a little bit of a lipstick I mean 
what Bella says that very red I mean 
gosh it totally changes the game every 
time and and we do the photo shoot early 
in the process for precisely that reason 
and we pull like you are a queen and the 
goal is to to reset the foundation to 
know I am a queen inside out and people 
will treat you really well and so and 
you get 
photos that start to you know your 
milkshake brings all the boys to the 
yard so so 
yeah I think that's I think that's kind 
of what happened so you guys went 
through the three hour jump start 
session you set this Foundation you know 
you're looking for 
a type of person you know what your 
wants were you knew what your needs are 
and these are different for every single 
people this is just part of our process 
so now you know what the red flags are 
right and so now you hit launch and you 
know that there's a process behind you 
you guys tell every what happened during 
the process you 
well I know that just meeting with 
Lindsay I love just sitting down with 
her and just that three hour session was 
just amazing for me it was eye-opening 
it really was 
um and her just how she you know was 
directing me and how I was in the past 
and and now like this is where we want 
to go 
um and just sitting down with her and 
writing down what I really want in 
someone was so important because I've 
never done that I've never just sat down 
and go this is what I really wanted a 
man 
um so when I launched I was nervous 
because again going back to years prior 
when I was going through a divorce 
I was overwhelmed of what what do I do 
and she was right there you know with me 
through the whole entire process with 
the launch 
um 
I know that weekend I was a little busy 
and she said well what we're going to 
launch to say go can we just do it on a 
Monday I think I'm I'm gonna be ready to 
go in my mindset but that whole process 
of gearing up with my profile pics you 
know the actual profile of what I need 
to include was really important because 
I was putting myself out there and I 
really wanted to gravitate towards men 
that put in the effort just as much as I 
did and that's where she came in and she 
she helped me say no we don't want this 
type of guy we want this type of guy 
which was really helpful she was 
definitely my cheerleader right there in 
my ear 
and you blew up the internet you got a 
huge response a huge response we had to 
go with through everything with a 
fine-tooth comb and we did a lot of 
deleting and cleaning out of the inbox 
but the crazies the unsafe the red 
flaggers right so fast I couldn't keep 
up I was like I know I just know I just 
start deleting right away and then 
pointing out here's a red flag here's a 
red flag and really sort of setting good 
expectations around how do we screen 
people in and we can't delete everybody 
so we had to play the numbers game a 
little bit too and keep enough people 
and start working the process to develop 
your dating funnel but tell us about the 
super like that popped up in your inbox 
um a little bit in while we're starting 
to work together and kind of how how 
that started to evolve you know I I 
blush and I get chills you're turning 
red right now over I wish you all you 
can see this over Zoom like her face is 
matching her pretty Berry lip right 
about now 
you know um we were on during the day we 
had met Lindsay and I and then that 
evening I noticed a super like and I'm 
like well somebody took the time to 
Super like me and messaged me at the 
same time and the same night on the 
first day of me launching and so I read 
she told me she's like this is the 
process this is what you need to do in 
order for him not to be a red flag and 
so I'm looking at him and I'm like well 
first of all he's very attractive 
and I read his profile and when I met 
with Lindsay you know I was just like 
he super likes me and messaged me and 
then going from there I was like giddy 
I'm like this is this is a this is a 
contender which has been the running 
joke I think 
um because he just was kept being there 
and Lindsay was like okay we like the 
smart guy okay so but we still have this 
these other prospects that we need to 
look into who were following the process 
that she told me about 
but I will tell you Mark just kept going 
and he was doing all the right things of 
what we wanted him to do as far as what 
I seek in a man so that's where Lindsay 
came in and just helped guided me in the 
right directions of what I needed to do 
that way I wasn't making any more dating 
mistakes like I did in the past 
tell people what you do you are logged 
in as Mindy you are when Lindsay just 
you know casually says I went in and did 
this and did that Lindsay is the pilot 
of the plane okay Lizzie his takes over 
hijacks your inbox while you're in 
session and literally we'll teach people 
this is a red flag this is a green flag 
and when she says I deleted all the 
unsaviaries she knows and it's like no 
teach no teach no teach and that's how 
we know we teach you so then that is how 
you start to be able to fly your own 
ship so Lindsay's in there helping 
reading the middle it down and whittling 
it down and making sure that even though 
there is this good Prospect what do most 
people want to do when they get a mark 
in their inbox they want to stop dating 
other people right and so now you're 
cracking up so I'll I I just wanted to 
kind of dig into that a little bit now 
so we've got super like Mark we've got 
you know other people in the funnel what 
happened now you guys 
um for me go ahead Lindsay well I was 
gonna ask you this because I think so 
we've whittled down the Inbox and Mark 
is looking good he's got a great profile 
there are no red flags he is absolutely 
handsome it's very exciting when you see 
somebody that you're attracted to and 
we're keeping other people in the mix so 
biggest thing we say is always talk on 
the phone first so tell us about some of 
those first conversations you've had 
with Mark and how you felt when you 
started when you first screened him in 
well so again you guys have a process 
and it's a step-by-step process and you 
said the dating funnel and so we message 
each other and how you set it up as me 
responding but always asking a question 
to keep it going and you said let's turn 
it over to a phone call and so I did I'm 
like hey you know asking him let's set 
up a phone call I'm available this time 
or this time 
and 
for me I made a mistake let's just say I 
was actually um he set up a phone call 
he did his job he said a phone call on a 
Thursday night and I was actually on a 
date and there was a blizzard coming 
I missed his phone call 
because I was driving in this blizzard 
home and I missed this phone call and 
I'm like oh my gosh I just missed the 
phone call to hear his voice because we 
want to hear his voice yeah um but 
instead of him just ghosting me and 
blowing me off he goes let's set up 
another phone call and I said okay 
and here I thought it was a phone call 
but he actually set up a FaceTime which 
that's another process exactly sure and 
I will tell you with Bella's process 
through the covet although there's 
negatives there's some positives that 
came out of this and the number one 
thing is that face time date is so 
important 
um but again in my notes I had it down 
as a phone call I had been taking a nap 
that day because my son's birthday that 
day and everybody's coming over my hair 
is in a messy bun 
smudged underneath my eyes and he's 
FaceTiming me and he told me he goes 
Mindy I had I told everybody I had to be 
home at three o'clock I was FaceTiming 
someone so he was doing his job and I'm 
like oh my God he's FaceTiming me so I 
am trying to wipe off everything 
halfway decent and 
they tell you guys tell us you know 20 
to 30 minutes maybe Max of a FaceTime 
call it turned into an hour and I loved 
every minute of it because the 
conversation just flowed it wasn't like 
what's your favorite color or what do 
you do for a living it was honestly the 
most natural conversation I've ever had 
and getting off that phone call I was 
like well I want more but and what what 
did he do he set up a date he he said 
that date during that face time of hey I 
would like to meet you for lunch this 
date he said a time and a date and I was 
like okay so I got off the phone going 
well 
alrighty I'm moving on to the next date 
but at the same time I still have that 
dating funnel going on with the 
messaging unmatched 
um someone calling me someone setting up 
a FaceTime and then eventually turning 
into a date yes but the fact that he 
followed all this these steps even when 
I missed the phone call he kept going 
yeah he assumed positive intent yes he 
didn't end so often people get that 
message that's kind of nasty the next 
day which is just another red flag and 
so he was consistent but we talk about 
this a lot men who are interested follow 
a very specific and women too but we 
follow very specific patterns of being 
consistent and not leaving you hanging 
or wondering what the next step is so he 
follows up and so tell us a little bit 
about your courtship with him how did it 
start as you're dating other people 
everybody this is really important 
Lindsay did not let that funnel stop 
she's like yeah that's great about this 
Mark guy and we need to you know bring 
in no Chads just kidding no chats 
no honestly she did say that like no we 
like Mark he's up there but we're gonna 
keep going and I did and I did 
um yes you did I followed all the steps 
um because she was in my ear you know we 
met every week and we went through 
um the profile and then I would tell her 
about well I did a FaceTime with this 
guy 
um I like him I I think you know I'm 
just waiting for the date and he would 
set up the dates so then there were some 
that I was like this time no I'm done oh 
there were some doozies in there I think 
as you're continuing to go out with Mark 
on it I think it's it was a really 
consistent basis it was one day a week 
you guys met for lunch 
several weeks in a row right yes you uh 
we we actually there was times where it 
was like two lunch meetings 
um you know maybe one on a Tuesday and 
then one on a Thursday 
um but I was he the thing is about Mark 
and I I only hope about other women is 
my schedule is all over the place that 
he was making time he was actually 
scheduling time for me to make it 
convenient 
um which again being a parent and being 
a business owner I'm kind of all over 
the place so my schedule is not ideal 
but he was making that time and I 
remember Lindsay saying you've had a lot 
of lunch dates we need to turn them over 
into the evening dates and you know what 
he did he did he took that next step and 
he's like I want to take you out on this 
evening would you be available so it was 
that whole process of he just kept going 
and he and I was not being insistent on 
demanding on saying well I need you to 
do this I just suggested things like hey 
maybe we should meet up sometime in the 
evening you know for a drink or you know 
dinner and he jumped on it he actually 
so the time a place and a date 
um yeah and then after you know I would 
say weeks of doing that 
um 
he sat me down and I it was at a dinner 
and he's like I just want to be 
exclusive with you I only want to date 
you 
um I really have enjoyed getting to know 
you and I want to get to know you more 
and that's when I politely had said you 
know I really enjoyed being with you as 
well I enjoyed getting to know you but I 
do think it's important that there needs 
to be a commitment made 
um so I'm going to continue dating 
um 
and he respected it and he goes well I'm 
okay with that I'm going to keep dating 
you no matter what I I want to be with 
you and he didn't get outfitted he 
wasn't upset 
it was like the most secure man I've 
ever met in my life that he just he knew 
what he wanted and he respected it and 
he kept continuing to follow as I would 
say the process the process exactly and 
I think where the 
commitment came in we knew he was really 
he really liked Jimmy's more serious but 
what we had talked about was the 
importance of time and making sure that 
you drew this out as long as you could 
to really see who he was because we'd 
had this experience with the bad chat 
we're two months in things are great 
great great great great great and then 
there's this big turn in Behavior so it 
was giving him time and consistency to 
show you who he was and put little tests 
along the way of does he show up when 
you don't jump in to be exclusive with 
them right away does that get him upset 
where he's like if you don't want to be 
exclusive with me I'm out of here or 
does he continue to pursue you so you 
did a really good job of slowing that 
down while continuing to date other 
people and I think he was secure enough 
to know hey in the end she's getting 
into picking B yes yeah right he was 
very confident with that 
um but again I was dating other people 
and then there was a moment that 
I share this story just because again we 
all have those moments with dates that 
will forever be with us and we will 
never forget 
Mark had actually I was working and he 
had said can I stop by just to say hi 
and I thought that was very nice of him 
just to say hi and it was for 15 minutes 
and I showed him around my business 
um but I had a date scheduled that night 
which was he didn't know 
um he just knew I was working 
um and so I just thought that was very 
nice of him to do that and that just 
more points towards him but I ended up 
going on a date with this man that I 
went through the messaging I went 
through the phone call of the FaceTime 
and then he set up the date 
um and I got to the day a little bit 
late maybe about five ten minutes late 
and I thought he would be there and he 
was like now I'm running late and so I'm 
sitting there you know at the restaurant 
waiting for him and he comes in 
he's like I'm here and I'm like okay 
he's here and he sits down and I 
again say hi it's finally nice to meet 
you he's like hey I need to take my 
Invisalign out is that okay and I'm like 
my mouth kind of dropped like what and 
he took it out the slobber came with it 
in his pocket and that's when I was like 
there's two moments right now my stomach 
drops I'm sick to my stomach that was 
gross and definitely Mark is definitely 
that number one Contender because I 
don't know if I can do this anymore of 
you know that just happened and we were 
supposed we continued to eat our dinner 
but I barely eat my dinner that night 
because what just happened in front of 
my face First Impressions matter and 
they weigh very heavily you know if 
you're in a relationship with somebody 
down the road and you know they have 
Invisalign that's one thing when it's on 
a first date and then you're just taking 
that out it is it makes a big impression 
and I mean there was gosh there was a 
mix of a couple different people you met 
and I think as we talked about like when 
you were having a dating funnel it was a 
really good comparison and contrast it 
was a good compare and contrast to Mark 
and I think people can be afraid to keep 
others in the mix they feel guilty but 
what it can really do 
you have a good Contender it screams 
that contender in even more even more 
that's right you like them more by 
looking at who the other options are and 
you're dating from a place of security 
because you're making a choice you're 
not just for falling for the first 
person who picks you 
yes it's much more empowering I think 
another thing just with the dating 
funnel too 
um and Bella has mentioned it in her 
Instagrams of the love bombing like I 
listen to these stories but I never 
really like narrowed it down to what 
love bombing was up until you pointed it 
out with Chad and then now this dating 
funnel I did have someone that was so 
intense writing me paragraphs in a text 
and I'm I'm reaching out to you Lindsay 
how do I end this like 
what what do I say to politely in this 
and I did and an hour later I have 
flowers at my business and I'm like 
whoa thank you for the flowers but 
really we just we need to part ways but 
and I think Lindsay with you me reaching 
out to you saying what do I do about 
this situation because I've never really 
I want to do this the correct way in a 
respectful way and you being there in my 
ear and telling me hey I suggest you do 
this really helped me build my 
confidence and then also 
um eliminated someone that I did not 
need in my life for sure for sure and it 
builds your confidence in knowing that 
you have her there to reach out to at 
any time going oh my God this crazy dude 
just sent me flowers what do I do and 
Lindsay knowing Lindsay as well as I do 
she'll be like block him and now we're 
done yes we're done yes and yes no and 
there will be people who come up and we 
say this over and over again crazy can't 
hide it shows up we see it and then we 
deal with it and we address it we block 
it and we move on and you know so things 
with Mark you know are going well you 
had a dating funnel you have now been 
dating 
really actually I mean several weeks a 
couple of months at this point he's 
expressed that he really wants to date 
you exclusively you buy more time 
tell us what it was about Mark that you 
were attracted to 
um I want you to I'd love for you to 
answer the question for the listeners 
did you have butterflies when you met 
him and did you know he was the one on 
the very first date like and then answer 
how you felt as you started to get to 
know him more lots of questions no so 
I'm going to address the first question 
which is the butterflies there were zero 
butterflies say that again for the 
people in the back just kidding there 
were zero butterflies with this man 
um and with that because again I 
remember Bella saying you don't want 
belt you don't want butterflies Lindsay 
says you don't want butterflies 
and that first date when I met him was 
very calming and easy and laid back and 
natural 
um and I wasn't thinking this is the one 
because I just thought well there's some 
other guys that I'm going on dates with 
too this is just one of them and that I 
really think this man is a gentleman 
he's very respectful he's very kind 
um and I just kind of went about my life 
and that's when he kept asking me out on 
more dates but really those first couple 
of weeks I 
I wasn't thinking that this is the one 
this is just a guy that honestly I would 
like to see again and get to know 
because I have these other guys in my 
dating funnel yes um yes answer your 
last question about him 
I have a very high paced lifestyle 
a lot going on in my life and he brings 
such calmness to my life and that's 
where 
I really have enjoyed him being in my 
life is it's just so easy and laid back 
and he takes me into just a different 
world I mean he could be over at my 
house and we're making dinner and I just 
feel like calm I feel like there's no 
busyness to my life and I really value 
that I really value someone being very 
supportive gentle and kind and he's just 
everything that I with Lindsay wrote 
down of the things that I desire in a 
man and it's not the six foot you know 
blue eyes whatever that the women really 
want it is 
so honestly it's the the values the 
morals the the character oh my gosh his 
personality it's just 
I I love how he makes me laugh I love 
that he can sit and listen to me 
um I love that he helps me through those 
hard times in my life that I'm going 
through whether it's with my kids or my 
business you know he's just and he shows 
up and he honors his words when he says 
he's going to do something he does it 
and I don't have to prompt him two or 
three times it is just like he's just 
gonna do it because he wants to and he 
goes I know I don't need to I want to 
and he always says that he wants to be 
with me he wants to be there for me so 
that's that's what made me fall for him 
is just seeing that and I honestly 
before you guys I really thought 
I don't know if there's really a guy out 
there for me that can deal with this 
crazy lifestyle and my high energy 
personality that he really just it's I 
always say you're Ying to my yang it's 
you know I'm busy and and very talkative 
and outgoing but he's just so calm and 
laid back and we just come together and 
you know 
I just really have just enjoyed this 
whole process with him and I'm I'm very 
in love with him 
oh 
I can see it on your face things and 
feel it it's so 
incredibly sincere and I I think what's 
nice is we had this list created of who 
your high GHQ man was going to be and 
then I know as you were trying to figure 
out if he was you wanted to be exclusive 
with him I had you write another list of 
all the things about him that you really 
liked and now looking back when you pull 
out those lists and you look at sort of 
where we started in the process and 
how he falls tell us a little bit like 
does he hit your list 
oh absolutely he hits my list and and I 
know when you guys Lindsay you and I 
wrote down the most important people in 
my life that have affected me in a 
positive way I'll never forget that that 
was like as Oprah would say an aha 
moment in my life 
um I never realized the the people that 
are in my life that have impacted me and 
in such a supportive positive way that's 
the type of person that you really want 
in your life all of those people you 
want to put them all together and you 
want that person in your life yeah and 
that's Mark he has checked off every 
single box on that list it wasn't the 
previous list it was that second list 
that those are the people I put all of 
those valuable relationships in my life 
all in one and that's Mark and I found 
them 
on there right now and and what I want 
you to hear is there is a better way to 
do this right there is a way to feel 
secure and to feel like you have 
guidance and most importantly to have a 
dating funnel to date slowly to do all 
the things Mindy you're you're 
incredibly coachable you're all that is 
good and like I'm I knew your story but 
these podcasts and really Drilling in 
like I am not rendered speechless that 
often as both of you know but I'm really 
I'm just you know what you guys have 
done together is really remarkable and 
I'm so happy that Lindsay has been able 
to walk you through this process that is 
navigated with love bombers Kooks people 
that you need to block and giving you 
the script and sitting and whispering in 
your ear the things that you need to say 
or not say to keep things going and 
um you guys are in love and he sounds 
amazing he sounds like the lid to your 
pot and I'm gonna put my coach hat on 
for one second and I want you to always 
remember in this relationship with Mark 
is that relationships can and should be 
easy that doesn't mean they're not not 
work it's always work to keep a good 
relationship it's it's work to keep a 
friendship it's work to keep those 
relationships with your teenagers like 
we've talked about and it certainly work 
with the Romantic partner but it's not 
soul-crushing crying at the pool ripping 
your hair out wondering am I in this 
world of gaslighting it's a little bit 
of work but continue to know fighting 
hard is not something that I want you to 
do and you don't need to do 
right right and it sounds like you've 
met your match yeah yeah I mean just and 
and Mark and I there's been some you 
know moments where I think some of my 
Trauma from my past have come in and 
that's where Lindsay has said hey let's 
sit back is that from your previous 
relationships you know is that what 
you're facing and I've been very open 
with Lindsay about you know that whole 
process because there's been moments 
with Mark and I that 
me I question things just because of 
that past trauma and that's where she's 
really has helped me 
work through those moments yeah and then 
also 
I think what I've learned with this 
whole process with Lindsay is and you 
Bella is establishing those boundaries 
at the very beginning of your 
relationship of 
this is what I want and for my future 
and eliminating those red flag guys I 
mean it they they ran they ran far 
because they didn't want someone forever 
you know 
um so just sitting there with Lindsay 
and talking to her about some things 
that have arised in our relationship and 
it is based on my previous past and I 
think she's been very helpful through 
that 
um we're like not just my coach but also 
my therapist too and a sense of guiding 
me of okay this is I want you to sit 
back and I want you to write down I want 
you to listen to this podcast I want you 
to read this book that has really helped 
me because again you guys are there for 
a reason and I would only hope that 
people that are your clients are 
listening to what you're coaching 
because you guys are definitely there 
you are a hundred percent real and I I 
and I followed every step and I believe 
in you guys I Believe In You 110 with 
what you're doing 
oh I'm so emotional with this no I know 
this wow you've made my whole like day 
and week and life now I really I 
seriously I'm wiping like I really 
appreciate that so sincere and you guys 
are talking marriage huh is that right 
yeah you guys hear that go into the 
chapel and work again okay I'll stop 
serenading you that's a better song than 
the Milkshake song let's just go there 
okay clearly in life you do not know 
that reference but anyway no but I just 
I what I wanted to say is I'm so proud 
of you and I'm so happy that you didn't 
let the difficult relationships from 
your past and the other narcissists 
inform your future in the way that it 
kept you from ever trying to look for 
love again that you didn't give those 
guys all your power and all your control 
and saying well gosh you know what love 
is not going to be for me because that's 
all there is and that you looked at 
doing things differently and you were so 
incredible you're so incredibly 
coachable but just is why you're 
successful you know how to really 
internally look and do the work but 
you're very self-aware and I couldn't be 
happier for you guys and I just this has 
been really fun today guys I love these 
love stories I mean we love love but I 
really love love and we're gonna have a 
page that you can refer to on our 
website you know talking about Mindy's 
story and you can see pictures of her 
from our photo shoot and most 
importantly pictures of her with the 
cute lid to her pot and 
um Mindy thank you so much for being so 
open to the process being open on this 
episode and I know there's going to be 
so many people out there that can relate 
to you and to the experiences you've had 
you are a freaking Warrior goddess 
you're a badass entrepreneur you're an 
amazing mom you're a great friend you're 
a great girlfriend and I can't wait to 
see what your future holds well thank 
you for having me and thank you for 
everything you guys have done for me you 
really have inspired me and just pushed 
me into a different direction and I feel 
100 
ready for this next chapter in my life 
oh 
I'm so glad well smart daters if you 
feel called to it sign up for our free 
newsletter go to smartdatingacademy.com 
check out the page it'll be in the show 
notes of Mindy's relationship follow us 
on Instagram like Mindy said she tuned 
in to those IG lives there are 40 hours 
of Instagram lives if you follow us on 
Instagram at smartdatingacademy swipe 
over to where you can see the igtv 
series 
you'll be completely Sick Of My Voice by 
the end of those 40 hours either that or 
you'll be like I need to come and do 
this it'll be one or the other so 
um with that we bid you farewell and I 
hope that you are as inspired by Mindy's 
love story as Lindsay and I are because 
we know most importantly feel this in 
your soul all the way from the top of 
your head to your toes love is out there 
for you love is coming to you it's a 
when it's not an if get psychotically 
optimistic about your future and you 
finding the lid to your pot and we'll 
see you next week 


this is the first time I've got two 
people on with me it's like the Menage à 
trois of podcast today is going to be a 
love story of this beautiful stunning 
and more more importantly beautiful on 
the inside client named Mindy and I've 
also brought Lindsay to talk about what 
it was like to be Mindy's personal 
trainer for love through this process 
you get so invested with the people that 
you work with and you care so much and 
it really turns into just a really 
beautiful relationship my traumas I've 
gone through I mean gosh sitting down 
with Lindsay just to get to know my past 
and my present and what I need to be 
looking forward into my dating world 
really has helped navigate where I am 
today and that's not just in a 
relationship but that's how I see how I 
approach my business or my family or 
friendships 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back 
these you know are my favorite episodes 
to do because 
I love love I love helping people I love 
helping people find love and most of all 
what I love are stories 
and I love the love stories of people 
that have found Love sometimes from 
their own perspective against the odds 
like I don't know if it'll ever happen 
to me and then when it does happen to 
them 
so many people like today's amazing 
guest my client sugar who found love and 
is going to tell you about her journey 
and the goal of these stories is to know 
that if you're sitting there at home on 
a walk on a train listening to this 
episode thinking it's just not going to 
happen for me I'm too old I'm to this 
I'm to that whatever your story is I 
want you to hear about Sugar's Journey 
today and I hope that it leaves you with 
all the Hope in the world and as I said 
that I got goosebumps on my entire body 
I want it to leave you with the hope 
that your love story is out there and 
it's just waiting to be written so sugar 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm so excited and thank you so 
much for being here well thank you so 
much for having me I'm really excited to 
share my story and like you said you 
know give some hope or at least just you 
know people can hear what what happened 
to me 
well first of all I have to tell you 
guys sugar is her nickname because sugar 
is part of a buy one get one free 
identical twins package and so her real 
name is Almira and she has a beautiful 
twin sister 
and let's just suffice it to say that 
the twins nicknames are sugar and spice 
yes yes thanks our grandfather yes your 
grandfather saw it early he's like 
you're the sweet one I'm gonna call you 
sugar 
yes and it's stuck you know it stuck 
through 
um middle school high school college 
even now you know we're on a couple of 
boards and everyone knows it's a sugar 
and spice sugar and spice absolutely 
they're pretty well known socialites in 
Chicago as well so I I remember the 
first time when Almira emailed me and we 
were going back and forth and she says 
well my nickname is actually Sugar I'm 
like oh my God I love that so much I 
want to be nicknamed sugar 
by joke only friend uh only co-workers 
and strangers call me Almira so 
um I I usually don't respond down there 
like there's been times I've been known 
to people call my name and I totally 
don't even realize they're through 
saying my name 
oh my gosh well sugar just to set up a 
couple of demographical you know bass 
lines so people know you're based in 
Chicago you have an awesome corporate 
job you're a heavy hitter badass and 
you're in your mid-40s 
yes yes so I yeah I studied chemical 
engineering at Purdue and I've been at 
um my job Accenture which is a global 
I.T company for the past 23 years now 
and now yeah I live downtown Chicago yes 
wow what an account amazing 
accomplishment did you guys hear that 
she's an engineer at Purdue and has had 
the same job well not the same job but 
been at the same company for 23 years 
ironically I think you and I talked I 
started my career at Arthur Anderson so 
which and then the I.T division of 
Arthur Anderson spun off and is now what 
we know as Accenture so sugar and I This 
was meant to be we were destined so so 
when you do the math yes I'm 46. you're 
40. level 46. oh my God and when you see 
these photos you guys and we're gonna 
put these sugars can have a page on our 
website she looks like she's 15 years 
younger than she actually is and I have 
seen her in person so I can attest to 
her China Doll Beauty so sugar tell us 
about your your journey in in life and 
love and dating 
so I um I was married for almost 10 
years to a fellow chemical engineering 
student actually at Purdue and you know 
it was a very painful divorce you know 
it took me about eight years to finally 
put myself out there finally even think 
that I was ready 
and what got me ready was like I said 
this is perfect storm so I had a family 
member the right after covid at a family 
member that was basically facing a 
medical crisis and then I had this other 
friend who was looking to hire this 
Millionaire Matchmaker 
uh you know and I realized and then I 
also realized you know after covid the 
couples that made it through had a 
really solid foundation and you know I 
share my absolutely fabulous life with 
my friends and my family and so why 
can't I share that with you know a 
special someone 
um so 
you know and and I got this fortune 
cookie that actually said you need to 
make more time for romance a fortune 
cookie like from the Chinese restaurant 
well it was from Taos that you know 
those giant fortune cookies so I was 
like okay maybe the work you know so it 
was just these different signs and 
everything and you know I told my friend 
who was looking at this Millionaire 
Matchmaker I was like before you do that 
like try someone local like I remember 
meeting this woman years ago like we 
didn't you know we didn't even 
um no I didn't know who you were really 
I just I remember seeing you and you had 
such a great energy and I know our eyes 
locked and we smiled at each other and 
then I was like she looks so familiar 
and then like somehow I realized it's 
because you were on Steve Harvey yes 
dating you know expert and I was like oh 
my gosh oh my gosh like I gotta find her 
I gotta figure out who she is and you 
know point my friend to her you know 
before she goes on to this Millionaire 
Matchmaker whatever like expect a 
journey so so 
um yeah so that's how I I re-found you 
and realized you know started looking at 
your site and my other I had another 
friend who said you know if I fill it 
out you should fill it out too you know 
I love it I was like okay I'll I'll do 
it I'm you know I was more ready I guess 
like it was all these signs pointing to 
you I guess so 
um 
yes so 
I started researching you and 
um also I needed guidelines and 
guardrails for this online dating stuff 
because yeah you know like I said the 
last time I went on a 
um real date or well 
it was when I was still in my 20s you 
know and 
that was a long time ago and then I you 
know four years ago I actually tried to 
do the online dating and 
it was not a good experience I just shut 
that down I was like I'm just going to 
do my own thing and you know live my 
life and have fun and figure figure it 
out right like I'm done with this I'm 
not doing that again I think I forgot 
that you had tried online dating four 
years before and that was for like a New 
York minute and you're like yeah spice 
was like you gotta practice I was like 
all right I'll practice 
and then I was like I gotta I got bigger 
fish to fryer I got I got other fun 
things to do you know so 
um you know I that kind of went on the 
Wayside and but then I started 
researching you and I found your Ted 
Talk and you know I realized you know 
there was that the you mentioned the two 
questions you ask your client yeah you 
know and it's basically it comes down to 
two lists like what do you want 
to be happy and what you actually need 
to be happy and you know juxtapose it 
together and you realize 
you know I realized oh I must I need to 
do that I need to find someone that you 
know 
that I need to be happy you know and 
especially when when you mention how 
your parents put you know would have 
these things around the house and you 
said 95 of your misery or happiness 
basically is the choice of you know life 
partner you pick yes yes you know these 
seem like common sense and logical but 
you know we don't really 
think about that you know it's it's not 
you know something like you said it's 
not math science yeah you know biology 
whatever it is it's something that we're 
taught culturally familiarly and so 
um 
you know 
the more and more I researched you the 
more and more I wanted to get to know 
you better so I know spice and Ice we we 
had a really long talk with you because 
you know we we wanted to make sure I was 
making the right decision yeah 
um because it is an investment and I 
looked at it as an investment you know I 
I I put so much in all the other 
um 
things that I am involved with Purdue 
and with Adler and with you know my 
friends and my family and I get tenfold 
back but I don't put anything in love 
and I expect 
to hear magically and that's not how it 
works you know it takes work everything 
takes work so yeah 
but I really you know when when we 
started getting into it I really like 
that you had this 360 approach you know 
that it was 
fun because we had that photo shoot and 
you know you allowed me to bring spice 
to that and that was really really great 
oh my God you know makeup and you know 
this professional photo shoot and an 
online profile help writing help which I 
you know like you said every different 
app has a different style or a different 
you know way to present yourself and so 
you know it was just having that help 
and then also the one-on-one uh 
consultations I had with Eileen who you 
paired me with just really really helped 
out because I needed it oh my gosh and 
and you were you were amazing from day 
one and like sugars saying this was such 
a it's so many of you can probably 
relate to this because you come out of a 
divorce that's painful you're scarred 
right it takes a long time to grieve get 
out of the hole maybe you go through 
therapy you do all of the things and 
then maybe you do that little foray into 
online dating you're like oh my God that 
sucked I can't do this again and you 
shut down so for those of you that this 
resonates with right at a certain point 
in order to get different results you 
have to do something different right and 
that's where I applaud you for your 
courage in doing this and I know 
personally like you said we talked for 
an hour just saying kicking the tires is 
this right for you then spice gave me a 
good grilling on her own like how's this 
going to protect my sister is this going 
to work I'm like what I will promise you 
is that we will wrap her in pink sparkly 
bubble wrap and we will not let anything 
bad happen to her during this process 
how it's going to result in a year I 
don't know but I promise that it's going 
to be a better more fun more educational 
experience so the very first time we did 
our you know our session together like 
she was saying we came up with this 
composite sketch of who your high GHQ 
guy was and you knew what the red flags 
were you did your photo shoot and now 
you start working with your coach Eileen 
right and so exactly and she was just 
really patient I think with me because I 
was it was really slow for me I think 
um for some reason I don't know it's 
hard it's hard it's hard I didn't get a 
lot of hit you know hits as I say like 
people didn't swipe on me and because I 
could see people looking at my profile 
but they wouldn't like it you know so I 
was like is there something wrong with 
me am I not presenting right you know 
because I always think like I'm better 
in person than online but I don't know 
you know you're great in both online and 
in person I can attest to that so you 
know so but for men I have I have no 
idea this is this is the first time I 
really invested into it and I just it I 
felt like that duckling and sludge you 
know where Eileen I I think for the 
first few months it was it was 
um fighting my demons you know that I 
had uh to fight and that was a lot with 
my confidence after 
um my divorce my confidence with men in 
that romantic sense you know like I have 
confidence and I know who I am I know 
what I can do I know what I bring to the 
table but as far as men it's like I just 
friend zoned everyone because it was 
just so much easier to keep them at them 
that level so I wouldn't get hurt and to 
to do that with online dating is a is 
you know you're dating like this is 
online dating this is not friend zone 
dating or whatever you know and so 
um Eileen was cute issue is always like 
think of them as friends plus you know 
so 
um that I had to I had to overcome that 
and I realized you know I had so much 
stubbornness keeping me back and and 
Eileen encouraged me to not just see 
that but to do something about it you 
know so I live in downtown Chicago and I 
don't know if you know the phenomenal 
you probably know the phenomena no one 
wants to date outside their 
neighborhoods I know I'm like I don't 
want to have to travel even you know 
three miles 
miles to see someone right and so I 
would I would experiment I would be like 
one to three miles and then close to 10 
years and you know like I was just super 
picky you know like if someone just said 
hi I would be like 
you know ew no 
right and I just I would go into the you 
know I wasn't like a psychotically 
optimistic and and I wouldn't just kind 
of old-fashioned too and I didn't want 
to make the first move I remember spice 
spice sat in one of our um sessions with 
Eileen because we're literally she's 
literally in my DMs right and they're 
like oh what about saying what do you 
want to say to this guy and I'm like 
well I don't know this is so much better 
because she was just like you know 
so that's the problem and I was like I 
don't know what to say to this man you 
know and it's just practice it just 
takes practice and practice and practice 
and I and I literally listened to all 
your I you know attended your IG lives 
if I couldn't I watched them I know you 
know because I I literally took notes 
you know because you you your IG lives 
aren't just 
um 
you know they're so helpful because they 
go into the psychological part you know 
like there was that this one IG live I 
remember you had an expert in and they 
were talking about why people are 
attracted to narcissists and and you 
know as your childhood basically schema 
like 
right you know help helps determine who 
you pick or who you're attracted to you 
know or what love is like you know and 
and so it's just it was just listening 
to those IG lives and listening to also 
the stories of your successes that kind 
of like helped me through it and 
and all your motivation 
well and and listen to what sugar's 
saying right it's at a certain point we 
think we want what we want we want 
someone that lives three miles from us 
we want someone that is this tall or and 
we have these arbitrary things that we 
decide we want and what you did a really 
good job at is what you know is being 
coachable right like okay maybe I'll 
maybe I'll expand my horizons maybe I'll 
expand my age maybe I'll expand my ZIP 
code the miles that I'll search in 
between and even though you may not feel 
like it right you're like I want to do 
something different I want to get 
different results so I'm going to take 
the advice and I'm going to become a 
little bit more expansive and a little 
bit more expansive and you started 
saying hi back to the guys who said hi 
you started proactively messaging people 
even though you're more traditional it's 
like girl I have to do this first right 
it's like yeah we're in the 21st century 
you're a badass corporate executive 
right do you wait for a man to make the 
first move at work hell no oh yeah I'm 
not a corporate executive but I've been 
you know I I am a surrounded a 
biological corporate Executives and I 
know you're very humbled they uh 
they're badasses but um you know it is 
it's like one of those things that I had 
to keep repeating the mottos that you 
and Eileen would say to me it's like it 
only takes one and it's not a matter of 
if it's when and so those are the two 
mottos that kind of stuck with me and 
just like 
encouraging me through the 
you know the lean times you know because 
I was like I I thought oh no this is 
going to be a repeat of four years ago 
like maybe because I can't find anyone 
that like I 
can talk to or you know can seize me or 
likes me for me kind of thing you know 
and 
um there was one IG live that was really 
special because I remember spice and I 
are driving to Purdue and so we couldn't 
I think we you know we logged in and 
watched watched it with you and this 
woman uh Marilyn dollars she was really 
really cute and she was saying she had 
she had met you like 10 years ago and I 
think she was divorced like I can't even 
remember twice 
twice twice and and her her problem was 
like she kept dating younger dudes like 
I remember her saying she dated some 
Italian 
plumber or something like in Italy and I 
was like what like what is going on here 
and then when she um you know and you 
kept saying no like you have to 
you know um your preference should be 
your age plus 10 your age plus 10. and 
she's like okay fine you know I'll do it 
you know and she finally met her 
soon-to-be husband and it was like 
totally bored by him because he was so 
good to her like he was like he brought 
her flowers like he was like we can 
start with drinks but if you want to 
have dinner you know like I made 
reservations you know and that's hard to 
do in Chicago especially now with covet 
you know and and then like you kept 
encouraging to give him a chance until 
like finally he was like it wasn't a 
little I can't even remember what date 
and she was like he's not boring 
right because in the beginning she was 
boring and I love what sugar's saying 
here because the reason she's on this 
show today is she is an inspiring story 
but as she was going throughout the 
dating process she was inspired by our 
client Marilyn dollar who had come in 
with a lot of dating and relationship 
trauma and you know you can go back to 
our igtvs and watch that episode with 
Marilyn who was saying yeah and a lot of 
times guys if you're fix if your Pickers 
are broken good people to you when you 
go out on dates with them can seem 
boring so when a client tells me dude's 
kind of boring I'm like there's not that 
many boring people around I think you're 
looking for dysfunction and drama and 
that's exactly what it was for her and 
so I so at that point you said something 
clicked in your head yes like something 
for some reason and I I don't know if 
it's because again like the last time I 
was dated I was in my 20s and and I for 
some reason I thought men my m46 I was 
40 45 you know I was like I had this 
story in my head that I was telling 
myself like oh Ford 40 year old men 40 
you know don't want to date 
someone their age they want to date 
someone younger more nubile whatever you 
know and I totally totally understand 
you know and for some reason I just like 
hung on to that thought and then after 
that show I just let that go you know I 
was like why can't I date 
someone who's 
[Music] 
um 
divorced and maybe with kids you know 
like why can't I you know I like started 
to think like maybe I I don't have to be 
so rigid in my I'm not in my 20s I don't 
you know have to follow a specific 
path except that this person just has to 
be a really good person you know and so 
and you always said you know your love 
and the lids your pot can come in a 
totally different package you know amen 
so I said you know and I was like why 
can't that 
you know I was like why can't I be open 
to that that it doesn't look like my 
typical person who I usually try to do 
you know and so 
um ever since that happened like this 
like my dating funnel like kind of 
exploded like I was like what is going 
on you know like and I think it's 
because I remember seeing my journal 
because I would journal every day to 
just to you know um track this journey 
and and uh I could tell there was a 
change in my thought process and my 
confidence and my acceptance of certain 
things you know and 
um I had to learn how to juggle like 
talking and video dating and in real 
life dating several minutes a time and 
and you know when you kept saying dating 
funnel I would like put it like fun oh 
you know fun no you know like I love 
that to keep it fun I love that fun oh 
okay guys develop a dating fun oh 
exactly make it fun though and so you 
know and then I I also kept a binder and 
this is my binder I don't know if you 
can see it but it has that fortune 
cookie oh my God you need to make more 
time for romance I have Goosebumps I 
didn't know that 
yeah so this is my binder 
that I put you know everything in that 
all my notes 
um you know all my my journaling 
um you know things that I 
think kind of like a vision board coming 
you know something like that and I had 
to make make it fun because it was 
I I would have clusters I would call 
them clusters of men and the first like 
some of them just didn't work out and so 
and I actually was really 
look I don't want to say heartbroken but 
just disappointed you know and so I had 
to make it fun and I had a friend of 
mine was like why don't you make it like 
a game or something so I was like okay 
so I so I put some pictures of these 
form and I I went on dates but I would 
tell my friends can you guess like who 
friend zoned me uh who showed up in a 
hoodie it's her first date like who is 
so good yeah who's super dull and then 
who you know we had a great sushi date 
and then like Marissa Van Gogh but then 
three days later went back to his 
ex-girlfriend and it was so funny 
because like people would just play that 
game and it was like so much fun and 
most most people didn't get it like they 
didn't actually pick the right you know 
picture to the person but some people 
did 
um because maybe they're more astute I 
have no idea I love how you made it but 
it was fun it was yeah I had to I had to 
make make it fun for me because because 
um when you when you go through those 
clusters of people and you realize no 
this is not the person but you feel bad 
you know I felt bad 
and 
um 
so yes I had to just make it kind of fun 
and funny you know for me so 
and you did and you did a great job at 
that and I don't know that I knew that 
you gamified it I can imagine four 
different photos like match You Know 
Hoodie guy went back to his girlfriend 
guys so that's hilarious and so so the 
beginning of your dating Journey was not 
all love and Roses right there were good 
dates there were bad dates there were 
people that said no there were people 
that ghosted ghosts at the last minute 
so this is part and parcel that didn't 
show up to the date you know and so you 
know but my strategy for that was I 
would pick a place that I wanted to try 
out anyways and then if if they didn't 
respond to a certain time I would just 
invite one of my friends and they would 
show up and we would have a great dinner 
you know so it was it was I always had 
like a backup plan like I never made it 
where I didn't have whether I had to go 
home sad you know I was like I'm just 
I'm still doing you know I'm checking 
out the things I want to check out so I 
love that you had a plan B if he doesn't 
show which didn't happen very often but 
if he doesn't I'm going to be at a great 
place I've got a friend in tow she's in 
the sidelines ready to come out or he 
yep 
and so so now you've built your 
confidence it's not an easy Road you're 
out there you've had this series of 
dates now tell us about tell us about 
how Facebook changed everything for you 
yeah so you know at first I started with 
match and then you know that wasn't you 
know Eileen was like okay we added 
Bumble and then I'm on Facebook all the 
time like I post everything on Facebook 
all the things I do because frankly I 
don't remember 
it's like when people ask me what did 
you do last week I'm like oh let me 
check Facebook you know 
um but you know I figure I use it all 
the time like and they have a dating 
part of it and not a lot of people know 
about it and I don't know how to find 
out about it but I found out about it 
and decided to give it a try 
and I there was a man uh you know one of 
his profiles he had a really really 
refreshing profile and he was like in 
this cockpit of a plane and 
um 
just seemed really really nice and so I 
liked it I don't even think I said 
anything I don't think I said anything 
to him and then he sends me a message 
and I realized he read my profile you 
know because it was a longer message 
than usual and then at the very end he 
says oh by the way I'm an identical twin 
myself 
you're like wait are you punking me like 
you're an identical twin also because I 
was not on his profile that was not on 
his profile and so you know I don't know 
twins in general I think they under they 
understand they have a different bond 
with each other and so 
um I had always you know when I was a 
younger I'd always wanted to date 
identical twins I wanted to marry an 
identical twin you know it just never 
happened but that was always my thought 
it just made sense to me you know 
because we don't have to like explain 
like why I want to hang out with spice 
all the time or you know all this stuff 
so 
um 
it was kind of like okay this this could 
this could work and then I realized he 
was in Wisconsin so I I changed my 
location preference so I cast a lighter 
net you know and then I realized he's 
like a hundred miles away from me from 
downtown Chicago 
and what was your first response to that 
I was like well 
practice 
like he like you know he seems like a 
good guy let's talk to him let's see 
what it what happens if it doesn't work 
out it doesn't work it doesn't work out 
but who cares I think that you know and 
he was just so consistent you know I I 
um we chatted first and then I I wanted 
to do a video date with him and he was 
like yes and then you know we talked 
pretty much every day and he would call 
me every night as well and so he was 
just consistent like in that funnel like 
he just was consistent like he stood out 
stood out he was always supportive like 
he wasn't intimidated by anything that I 
threw at him or it was you know or just 
like said and you know it I realized 
okay like this might this might work and 
and because of her schedules you know 
our first date wasn't for 
two weeks or something actually we 
decided it was going to be on his um 
birthday which is okay no pressure first 
dates on his birthday 
yeah he was like okay well we'll do it 
and so 
I ended up spending four hours together 
with him and my twin was gonna you know 
send a search party because I told her 
oh it's only just be two hours you know 
and where was it was it in Chicago or no 
it was actually in Gurnee it was in 
Gurnee in grenade 
halfway halfway so I actually also have 
a home up in Gurnee and spice and Ken 
living Gurney and my parents and my 
brother who married a Brazilian and has 
a 
um my godson who's six at the time was 
that was his first Halloween so you know 
I was like okay I'll walk with you the 
first few houses but then I have a date 
and they're like what 
like you know wanting to know more about 
him like no I'm not telling you where 
we're going because I don't want you 
guys to show up only exactly you know so 
um yeah it ended up being a really 
really really nice date and he was just 
so like shy and like nervous yeah so was 
I really you know but 
I just really we just really liked each 
other and we weren't afraid to say we 
actually liked each other you know 
I love that and then so that was 
Halloween and now 
he's consistent you talk all the time 
you video chat in between dates and so 
now you've got other people because 
you're a smart dater and so we're like 
you gotta keep your fun all going even 
though Justin seemed like a front runner 
kind of we were all kind of like is this 
too good to be true I know Eileen is so 
funny because she was really she really 
liked him I think she was rooting for 
him from the very beginning for sure 
also we had to just we call it hashtag 
follow the process you know like I call 
it hashtag but you just have to you have 
to kind of go through the motions and go 
through the steps to to just you know 
like you said measure three times and 
cut once oh I love that you know that 
because there's nothing there's no 
substitution for time and people will 
show you know who they are eventually 
and so so 
um he would drive back and forth a 
hundred miles to see him you know and 
then I would I would and so this was 
every two weeks because there were 
schedules you know so and then I would 
go up to 
um actually I'd meet up with in Lake 
Geneva so again I would pick like places 
so you know if it doesn't show up I'm 
gonna have fun 
Sugar's always got Plan B set up 
exactly exactly and so you know in 
December he he asked if I liked Disney 
Disney Disney as in Disney World or 
Disney Disney World and it's like we 
never really talked about that before 
you know unbeknownst to him spice and I 
are like huge Disney freaks you know we 
were even on uh I think last year we 
were right in it in the paper because we 
were considered Pros Disney Pros I love 
that he froze and so I said who doesn't 
you know and he was like well I'm you 
know I want to go in this six day trip 
to celebrate like my career change 
because he's basically been working for 
his company for 20 years so again very 
consistent like I was like who I'm 
dating myself this is very weird you 
know but then he's he's used to go with 
these he's transitioning to be to be 
become a pilot you know for his company 
and so he wanted to celebrate that 
because it's a huge accomplishment you 
know and so I said well two things have 
to happen first before you know 
I ever go on a trip like that is you 
have to meet spice at 10 and we have to 
be exclusive 
and I was like you don't have to answer 
now we can wait till our you know date 
at The Nutcracker this Sunday and just 
think about it you know and so that 
Sunday he was like 
yeah I think I think honestly he thought 
we were all right he thought you were 
his girlfriend already I love this in 
good relationships when we have our 
clients now this is very much a Smart 
dating Rule and I know for so many of 
you that listen to this podcast you know 
that but we talk about exclusivity 
before we're gonna do anything real 
together I want a term I want boyfriend 
girlfriend we're not sleeping together 
before that we're certainly not 
traveling together we're usually not 
going to people's houses and that kind 
of thing so yeah yeah I was like I'll I 
told him actually every man I talked to 
I was like I don't kiss on the first 
date I don't you know like just to let 
you know like this this is this is my 
hard line kind of thing and and most 
most of them right okay fine whatever 
but with Justin I always felt safe 
around him you know safe 
um protected 
cared for you know you always opened the 
door for me he always he'd make 
plates of food for me before him and you 
know I was like what's going on you know 
and he was just that kind of that kind 
of person you know and very affectionate 
and you know that's something I'm very 
affectionate as well 
and we realized I realized like we're 
so very similar you know like we both 
love desserts which is 
a huge thing a lot of men don't like 
dessert so this guy loves desserts like 
I plan my meals dessert first because 
your name is Sugar what do you expect 
exactly exactly and you know he doesn't 
drink I don't drink because I'm allergic 
so and he he likes sweet drinks so like 
the first date we went to the speakeasy 
and he ordered he ordered a pina colada 
and the waiter was that the waiter was 
like we have 700 whiskeys right like we 
don't he's like okay do you have a 
strawberry daiquiri 
they're like no we don't have a blender 
I love a man with confidence who's 
becoming a pilot right who drives 100 
miles to see you and is so comfortable 
in his own skin he's like I would like a 
strawberry daiquiri I don't remember the 
last time I've had a strawberry daiquiri 
it had to be in the 90s exactly exactly 
it's like considered cool you know but 
he's like whatever I don't care like 
this is me you know too and so and he 
loves Disney loves Disney more than I do 
and it's almost more than spice does 
like so we actually went to the Disney 
trip together so that was like six seven 
days and it was just so easy just so 
easy you know like it wasn't 
difficult and it was so funny because 
like people when people 
ask you know oh you know these are like 
once in a lifetime trips no this is 
really one of our first dates 
it's just to go with Disney you know and 
then I really he printed out 800 photos 
so I posted all our photos you know on 
Facebook he printed 800 photos and he 
bought this like 
um custom wood uh Disney at Disney and 
he basically arranged and organized 
these 800 photos like by parks by food 
by Adventure you know to give to me as 
some gifts 
commemorate our first Disney trip 
together you know I mean like who does 
that you know with her boyfriend you 
guys this stuff can happen we can't make 
this stuff up right you love Disney 
he drinks pina coladas and loves Disney 
more and is a very straight man like 
this is amazing 
yeah yeah and he has met all of my so 
many of my friends you know Purdue 
friends downtown friends My Dance Jam 
ladies in the suburbs like 
and he just is so like I I have no 
worries about him you know I can leave 
him and talk to my friend you know he 
can hold his own he's very 
you know he's very nice like people just 
like him you know which is like it's 
just a good thing you know because 
um 
I I had to because my ex wasn't very 
likable you know and I was like that's 
okay I like it you know so it doesn't 
matter but it does make like for him to 
be just so likable was just it's just so 
different for me you know and even my 
brother was so impressed um because like 
every time I talked to him like this guy 
can hang you know like with you like 
wait we just went to the Bridgeton ball 
um here in Chicago and this man I did 
not encourage him to get like with spice 
and I will dress up you know and 
follow Chicago sugar and spice online 
there she they have a thousand friends 
they know everyone Sugar's incredibly 
humble but they she hangs and she's got 
a lot of friends 
so so Justin 
purchases a costume like an actual like 
it's it's like the Bridgeton 
the Duke 
and and this guy is you know he's an 
eagle scout and he's a Freemason too so 
he knows all these like drills or 
something so he did this whole bow and 
like we curtsy like spicy I did this 
Tick Tock curtsy but he just had this 
like whole thing with the staff that he 
had and he actually got the the coveted 
like Queen's note that said like oh 
you've been noticed by the queen and you 
can be picked as a diamond and I was 
like what I love that that's awesome at 
the Bridgerton ball so this guy is the 
bee's knees and it's like God picked him 
for you and sent him straight down and 
tell us what do you you know what are 
you guys talking about for your future 
at this point 
yeah so he leaves for 
um Dallas actually the end of this month 
no end of July for a year to possibly 
three years because for his Pilot 
training and this is something that he's 
been very upfront about since we met 
it's not like oh like oh by the way 
you know and I was there through his 
journey because he had to take like a 
four-hour test you know there's all 
these these groups that you have to go 
through to undergo to get into to be a 
commercial pilot like FAA medical and 
these this and say this for our exam 
this you know all these recommendations 
and interviews you know and so it's not 
a it's not a simple process and I was 
there for him during like the more the 
tail end but he'd been doing this 
process you know by himself 
you know for the for for a long time 
already so 
um 
we realized you know we're I say we're 
not sweating it because first of all 
like we were 
neither of us have any trust issues you 
know with each other I remember the 
first question I asked him was are you a 
jealous person because you know I do a 
lot of things and he was like well 
jealous that you're eating sushi right 
now maybe I'm jealous but he's like I'm 
not he's not I'm like I'm not jealous 
about you know like I'm so worried about 
your career and and things like that so 
no no trust issues there and you know 
you a year goes by really really fast I 
mean it's been you know what two years 
now since covid it's been a year since 
you worked with us and it's been a year 
since I've worked with you you know I 
remember 
not ex like I had zero expectations like 
I was like them doing this for me I'm 
putting myself out there you know if I 
meet someone great if I don't you know 
at least I know the rules and exactly 
and what to do and what this you know 
things like that so and just it's more 
about me and I think like we're in this 
together and we also know that we have 
you and Eileen so he knows about you 
guys like I told him we're gonna have 
dinner or you realize 
and he's just he's I remember he said 
you know was I your second choice and I 
said no you were the best choice exactly 
oh you were the best choice I love that 
that gave me goosebumps he was so the 
best choice and you're right I mean Andy 
and I when we were dating we had a year 
apart and when he was getting his MBA 
and I was working at Arthur Anderson in 
Chicago and the year flew by and to your 
point it's like every other weekend one 
of us I would go to Champaign to the 
University of Illinois where he was or 
he would come to Chicago and suddenly 
and that just made it and we kept in 
touch by phone and it was easy we tried 
to talk every day even if it was for 
five or ten minutes right just touching 
base I'm thinking of you and suddenly 
before I knew it he was back home yeah 
yeah and I work remotely so I've 
actually worked remotely for 20 years so 
when covet hit it wasn't even like a you 
know with work but so it's it's for me 
for us it's something that we can work 
through I mean we are I think gonna miss 
each other but it also helps that 
because he was he is in Milwaukee so 
it's almost like we're doing a long 
distance kind of thing but we we strive 
to like meet in the middle and always 
like 
assure each other that we're there for 
each other and things like that and you 
know 
he know he knows that I have like you as 
my guardian angels of love than in the 
background to make sure that you know I 
because this is I haven't had a 
relationship in eight years and I need 
to know how to navigate that you know 
there are things Eileen helps me with 
because there are things I don't even 
think about 
you know especially because he has three 
three children too and so like how do I 
navigate that you know because I've 
never really 
done that before either so you know and 
it just it just works out 
oh my gosh so so we can all take away 
from this he is the lid to your pot 
she's nodding her head I think so yes 
I think it is he is he's he's he is 
just really a good hearted person 
um and I need that you know I need that 
I may not have wanted that 
but I need that you need that and kudos 
to you for expanding your boundaries and 
for building your confidence and for 
facing your demons and all of those 
things are tough and you guys it's it's 
all great we're on this podcast and 
we're talking about it but when you're 
in the trenches going through it and to 
your point when you hear the No and when 
you don't get the swipe and when you're 
ghosted it can challenge the very best 
of us right it's like what's wrong with 
me am I not good enough am I ever gonna 
find love and you powered through the 
monkey mind and all of the things that 
could have brought you down and when you 
I loved that it was when you heard 
Maryland dollars badass interview like I 
found love I dated someone who's older 
than me and he was thought it was boring 
and now he's the one and that was like 
an inflection point for you where you're 
like well if she can do this I can 
do this right Maryland in her late 50s 
or in her mid-50s at that point so well 
Justin's actually four years younger 
than me 
oh my God mayor's gonna be jealous 
she'll be like do you got the younger 
guy 
so I even not even surprised me because 
I was like you're 42 like 41 you know 
like what what like I like do you 
realize I'm 45. it's like I realize and 
I don't care yeah age is just a number 
and so that's the other big thing and I 
know when sugar started she was like 
okay I was convinced in my own mind that 
men are only going to want to date 
younger right and here the lid to her 
pot you know her her flight Captain 
Justin is four years younger so when you 
start to shed all of these constraints 
and these kind of shackles that we put 
on ourselves and these negative beliefs 
and suddenly when you get the fortune 
cookie fortune that romance you need to 
spend some more time on romance and you 
listen to your gut and you do the things 
that are going to make you do things 
differently so you get different results 
I mean you've just done an incredible 
job and you know the universe is just 
has your back and why wanted this to 
happen for you 
well thank you you know and and um 
I learned so much 
um 
that 
you know some of these things like I 
said like they seem they seem common 
sense you know but the first thing I 
remember you said in your Instagram 
lives and even when we started was get a 
Google Voice number because it was 
Safety First and I was like man I wish I 
knew that you know because 
I was like I don't want to give out my 
real number phone number totally like 
that and you know and then even with 
this whole covert thing like I think 
kovid was a godsend in this dating world 
because you have to video date you have 
to like it it cuts down and accelerates 
like the the 
cutting process basically you know it's 
like first you realize are they do they 
look like their profile you know do they 
post a picture like 10 years old 20 
years old you know like do they have all 
their teeth 
and you said you know you're always on 
10 minutes can't hide crazy so 
absolutely you know this is the video 
dating and that's how I mean with this 
whole hybrid thing in covid like that's 
how it's gonna be and if people do that 
it really cuts down it just it just is 
eliminates 
time like wasted time I think and an 
effort and you know I realized 
early on or maybe like a little bit 
later that I just needed to trust the 
process you guys are like the subject 
matter experts you know I may be a 
consultant or you know work for a 
consulting firm but I don't know you 
know like this is not my forte this is 
not my 
um you know uh strong strong points and 
the you and Eileen have been doing this 
and have success stories and have 
um you know good things to share and I 
just had to hang I just had to let go of 
my stubbornness I just you just have to 
let go of that your ego in a little bit 
you know a little bit and just be like 
you know what 
and so like I said 
get a binder 
reminder you know and take notes do it 
what you need to do 
um journaling really helped because I 
actually to get ready for this I read 
through my my journal you know and I I 
saw the progress like I saw the 
um the change in my the clicks you know 
that just were like unlocking the 
possibilities in my head you know and so 
I really want to thank you and Eileen 
and Smart dating Academy because it 
really changed my life I don't think I 
would have been able to do this by 
myself I'm you know at all 
um and I just you know I'm glad I met 
you and I'm glad I you know got a friend 
for life 
Eileen as well and yeah and spice spice 
and I thank you because this is really 
as a twin you know we realized we don't 
want to be alone like I knew I didn't 
want to be alone you know and you know 
she's been married 20 20 
um three years now no 22 years 
um this this past week actually and you 
know she chose well like she was able to 
choose well and and I needed to realize 
like I can choose again and I can you 
know and if I choose wrong I can choose 
a good you know and so this process and 
this 
um 
really helped me 
get over myself get over you know my 
demons 
um and help me find love so which I 
honestly wasn't really expecting it at 
all 
oh this is so amazing I have total 
goosebumps you can choose again yes you 
can choose again just because any of you 
didn't choose well the first time you 
get to choose again and you get to do 
this your way and sugar if somebody's 
sitting there listening to this episode 
right now what what's you know your best 
tidbit you can give to them 
thank you 
you know for I I always tell people to 
follow your Instagram you know I I now I 
realize like I just talk about you all 
the time 
like we just had this Purdue women's 
Network Conference and I was like you 
know because people 
women are curious I'm sorry men but like 
women you know their relationships are a 
big uh 
are a big thing you know that that we 
don't talk about really you know uh uh 
honestly or or or 
we don't have a guy right we don't have 
a guide and so or an expert and so when 
I say oh like I just you know are you 
doing Elite dating coach and these are 
the things like you have to follow like 
first of all like follow Instagram from 
our dating Academy on Instagram you know 
check out her website I'd show them the 
pictures on your website I'm like look 
at this dude before and then look what 
they did with him after I mean they're 
like they're like whoa she's like legit 
and I was like yeah like it's legit like 
I wouldn't do anything that's not legit 
you know what I mean and so you know 
that that's my biggest takeaway and also 
it 
I don't know for me it was my time you 
know this is my time and I realized I 
needed to do something about it like I I 
I uh 
like I said like I give I give a hundred 
percent to all these other causes that I 
do and but the the thing that you know 
you you hire a coach with your training 
for a marathon right or or the 11 you 
know or just 
um 5K or something like that right you 
get some training but like with this 
love thing 
there's really no play you know no one 
knows where to go to get training for 
that and and a guy you know a map and so 
I think I think if you do it you know 
decide to do it 
um do it right follow the process you 
know really listen and it's faster if 
you just the faster you just let go of 
your stubbornness the faster I think 
things just click in your head and just 
and and miracles can happen so oh I love 
that Sugar you're so generous and 
beautiful inside and out and thank you 
so much for sharing your journey and I 
couldn't be happier for you and we love 
you and thank you for being here today 
thank you Bella I really appreciate it 
thank you so much for having me oh my 
gosh I'm honored oh you're beautiful and 
guys we're gonna have a pic you should 
be able to click in the show notes and 
look at a page that'll feature photos of 
this dynamic duo sugar and her man 
Justin and then you'll probably see 
sugar and spice as well so we have lots 
of surprises for you on the page along 
with sugar segment where her photos were 
premiered on ABC TV so she's just 
getting started so sugar we wish you 
everything that is good and life and 
love and may this just be the beginning 
of a lifetime of love for you 


[Music] 
even though you know this is bad for you 
you still go back for more and I've done 
it myself and I said don't call him 
Helen as I'm punching those buttons my 
twin sister was madly in love with a guy 
for 10 years he dumped her she looks 
back at it now and says thank God and 
she went out with other men and 
everything but he was always really in 
her heart and the beauty of it Bella is 
when you finally reach 
indifference no longer you know you 
don't care anymore I mean you might like 
the but you certainly remember them you 
know uh I mean I've studied rejection 
and put people in the scanner and the me 
you don't kill the memory of it but you 
kill the feeling the craving the drive 
the obsession that goes with that 
memory 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back happy Monday I couldn't be 
more excited to introduce you to the 
most esteemed guest I love her she's 
amazing a good human a prolific author a 
professor 
she's a senior research fellow at the 
Kinsey Institute Chief scientific 
adviser to match.com which ironically is 
where we met in the fall of 2012 Dr 
Helen Fischer welcome to the Smart 
dating Academy 
podcast paella thank you thank you thank 
you I mean I remember when we met and 
you know you've traveled far as I 
figured that you would and and here we 
are talking about something really 
important which is love which is love 
love so why don't you you know let's big 
question what is love yeah you know 
everybody has a different opinion of 
what love is and everything from The 
Poets to the astronomers but uh you know 
because I'm an academic um first of all 
it's got a lot of characteristics I mean 
when I first uh first uh um you know I 
wanted to put people in brain scanners 
as you know and and find the brain 
circuitry of this intense human drive 
and it is a drive by the way I mean 
there's you got a lot of thoughts you 
got a lot of feelings emotions but it's 
basically a drive it comes from the most 
primitive part of the brain that you 
know associated with focus and 
motivation and craving and Obsession and 
of course it evolved so that we could 
fall in love and send our DNA into 
tomorrow so it's a very strong by the 
way I'm assuming you're talking about 
romantic love because I romantic love 
yeah because I think as you know you 
know we've evolved three distinctly 
different brain systems for mating and 
reproduction sex drive being one 
feelings of intense romantic love being 
the second and feelings of deep 
attachment being the third so romantic 
love so here are the basic traits of it 
um that I've collected from I don't know 
50 years of reading poetry and academic 
papers anyway 
firstly when you fall in love oh yeah 
you know by the way the very first 
academic MC article I wrote about 
romantic love I submitted it and one of 
the four peer reviewers wrote back and 
said you can't study love it's part of 
the 
Supernatural and I said hang on here you 
know fear is not part of the 
supernatural anger is not part of the 
supernatural happiness is why wouldn't 
this be I mean people live for love they 
kill for love they die for love they 
Pine for love I was one of the most 
profoundly basic feelings that we've 
ever evolved so anyway here are the 
basic traits of romantic love the first 
thing that happens is a person takes on 
what I call special meaning everything 
about them is special the car they uh 
Drive is different from every car in the 
parking lot the street they live on the 
music that they everything about them 
Bec is amazing it is and then you focus 
on them you know I mean when I put 
people in the brain scanner I would say 
well what do you not like about him or 
her they could list it and then they 
just swept it aside and just focused and 
just focused on what they really liked 
about him or her high energy you can 
walk all night talk till dawn um 
Euphoria when things are going well uh 
mood swings into horrible despair when 
it's going poorly all kinds of bodily 
reactions you know um weak knees 
butterflies in the stomach dry mouth um 
real emotional dependence I mean uh you 
know as Walt Whitman once said he said 
oh I would stake all for you I mean they 
just you wait by the phone you check 
your your emails you do your text 
messages you drop you know just 
emotional dependence on this person real 
separation anxiety you don't like to be 
a part um what I call 
frustration uh attraction I made up the 
term um basically it's when they don't 
call when they don't write 
um you just want them more you know it's 
like going down to the basement to get a 
candy bar out of sub machine and there's 
no candy bars now you're willing to walk 
10 blocks to get a candy bar in the same 
way um you know when when it's 
frustrated and we know the brain 
circuitry of that when you can't get 
what you want you just want it more you 
want it more Yep um but anyway um 
certainly possessiveness jealousy uh in 
Academia we call it m guarding um sexual 
desire you know you really want to kiss 
and hug with this person but even more 
than that the three main characteristics 
of romantic love are craving not for sex 
but for emotional Union you want them 
all you want them to ask you out you 
want them to say that they love you so 
uh emotional uh craving for emotional 
Union intrusive thinking somebody's 
camping in your head and they Camp you 
wake up thinking about about them you go 
to bed thinking about them they are in 
your head obsessed yeah OB it is an 
obsession uh it's an addiction we've 
proven that um and the last thing is 
you're highly motivated to win the 
person so the three main traits are 
craving for emotional Union obsessive 
thinking intrusive thinking it's called 
and high motivation plus all these other 
things last but not least it's 
involuntary you know it's a little it's 
like thirst and hunger in fact you know 
know I mean you can't control thirst and 
hunger and you can't control the feeling 
you can try to control not going to your 
text messages and tight giving them the 
their your 13th message in the hour Etc 
ETA but the actual feeling is quite 
involuntary which made me realize oh and 
not now I've proven this but the actual 
feeling comes out of a tiny little 
Factory near the base of the brain 
called the vental metal area or the VTA 
that little which makes dopamine and 
sends that dopamine to many brain 
regions giving you the oh the focus the 
energy the Euphoria the body reactions 
the craving the obsessive thing Etc but 
that little factoring the VTA lies right 
next to the factory that orchestrates 
thirst and 
hunger thirst and hunger keep you alive 
today romantic love drives you to form a 
partnership and send your DNA into 
tomorrow so for the if finally occurred 
to me I I figured that it was an emotion 
or a whole pile of emotions it's a 
drive mating drive that evolved millions 
of years ago and will surely be with us 
as long as we survive as a 
species so interesting and I think was 
it you that said lust is Nature's Way of 
tricking us into 
attachment I wasn't but I wish I had but 
I would actually not even agree entirely 
because you know that's the third of 
these emotions I mean there's a sex 
drive there's feelings of intense 
romantic love and there's feelings of 
deep attachment and I think you can 
easily have sex with somebody you're not 
in love with and never want to attach to 
I do think it's it's romantic love which 
is Mother Nature's Wicked Mother Nature 
um that when you fall madly in love with 
somebody that will often lead on to 
feelings of deep 
attachment you know in our practice 
Smart dating academy one of the things 
that we do in our coaching is to help 
people choose people that are good 
romantic long-term partners for them 
long term sometimes people will say well 
I don't know if I can help who I'm 
attracted to like what do you think 
about that I have an opinion on it I 
think we can but I want to hear it from 
you the expert well I'd like to hear 
from you too because you're an expert 
um I think in the beginning in the 
beginning when you suddenly realize that 
somebody's really a genuine alcoholic or 
a real 
liar uh or just you can't really you 
know I think you can walk away 
absolutely I do think that I think you 
can walk away from something that is 
very intense it's just hard hard when we 
when we put people in that we put um our 
first experiment was put 17 people who 
were madly in love and happily in love 
into the brain scanner and the second 
was people who have been rejected in 
love and in both cases we found activity 
in the main brain region linked with 
addiction the nucleus succumbent this is 
the brain region that becomes active 
with any addiction all of the substance 
addictions everything from alcohol and 
cigarettes to cocaine and heroin um and 
all the behavioral addictions everything 
from gambling addiction or sex addiction 
so this is the basic brain region linked 
with all the addictions and sure enough 
it is highly active when you're madly in 
love even if you know perfectly well 
this is wrong you know and all your 
friends tell you it's wrong it's but we 
do we I mean basically I think we learn 
we learn say oh no no I'm not doing that 
one again forget about it what what 
would you say I'm curious as I love this 
nucleus it comes so what you're saying 
is it feels like an addiction so even if 
you know for example this salt but this 
not good for you right but suddenly 
you're getting a lot of dopamine you're 
getting flooded with dopamine at this 
point so even though you know this is 
bad for you you still go back for more 
exactly and I've done it myself I've 
walked towards the phone in the old days 
you know before email and I've said 
don't call call him Helen I mean really 
Helen just don't call him Helen as I'm 
punching those buttons you know and then 
all the drunk dialing that people 
do and and and there's this eternal hope 
that maybe this could work out I mean my 
twin sister um was madly in love with a 
guy for 10 years he dumped her and she 
looks back at it now and says thank God 
it didn't happen you know and she went 
out with other men and everything but he 
was always 
really in her heart and the beauty of it 
Bella is when you finally reach 
indifference no longer you know you 
don't care anymore I mean you might like 
the you certainly remember them you know 
uh I mean I've studied rejection and put 
people in the scanner and the me you 
don't kill the memory of it but you kill 
the feeling the craving the drive the 
obsession that goes with that memory 
yeah yeah and that probably to some 
extent might be a function of time I'm 
guessing and like staying away from the 
person you got it you got both of them 
absolutely I mean that's one of the 
things that I say when you've been 
rejected in love treat it as an 
addiction throw out the cards and 
letters don't write don't call don't 
show up don't ask your friends about 
them um go do novel things with other 
people that'll drive up dopamine get 
hugs from Friends that'll drive up the 
oxytocin level but you're absolutely 
right we've proven in the brain that 
time does heal and because when you have 
been rejected in love um we find in the 
in the brain scanner activity in the 
same vental take midal area you're 
pumping out the dopamine you're stealing 
feeling the intense romantic Madness we 
also find activity in the brain region 
link with deep 
attachment and as time goes by so we put 
people in the machine who had only been 
dumped three weeks ago and people who 
had been dumped uh 17 months ago and and 
still couldn't get over it but we found 
that the longer you get away from that 
final moment of of rejection the less 
and less activity there is in the in 
it's called the vental padum a brain 
region link with feelings of attachment 
so the attachment 
recedes okay so the old adage Time Heals 
all wound 
has some truth to it yeah AB now you 
still remember it but it doesn't have 
that impact thank God you know I began 
to wonder I mean why do we go through 
such troubles I mean why I mean isn't it 
so from a darwinian perspective a little 
maladaptive to suffer for months or 
years when you've been dumped by 
somebody who really would wasn't any 
good for you and then I began to think 
about it I said well nobody else has 
suggested this so I got to think about 
it and I thought right well certainly 
You've Lost Your Daily habits you might 
have lost when you've been dumped right 
you you may have you've certainly lost 
your daily habits and rituals you 
probably have lost some friends you may 
have lost your home or the dog or the 
cat or even children uh you may have 
have lost um the rituals at Christmas or 
whatever you know uh where you go 
annually you don't know if your 
neighbors still like you uh etc etc but 
what you've really lost is an 
opportunity to reproduce I mean if 
you're young and you are hoping to have 
babies with somebody you have 
jeopardized your ability to send your 
DNA onto tomorrow and if you have um a 
husband or somebody and children and and 
or a wife and the person leaves you've 
lost a parenting partner so from a basic 
biological I mean not only do you suffer 
from the cultural problems of lack of 
money lost the house lost the dog lost 
the kid lost the this and 
that but you've you've you've 
jeopardized your your genetic future and 
this is suffer so much yeah the day 
comes you know there's basic stages to 
rejection I mean first is shock takes 
about two weeks of shock and then hope 
you try to you hope for this and then 
comes protest you you fight back you 
know I mean women will uh try to 
understand they'll try to compromise 
they'll try to seduce uh men will try to 
make the woman Jealous by going out with 
somebody else or showing off their money 
or this or that um and when the protest 
doesn't work then you slip into the next 
stage which is resignation and despair 
and that's when men particularly will 
hold up and watch TV uh uh drive too 
fast drink too much women will talk 
incessant ly about 
it and they and that's the problem in 
the beginning it's good to make up your 
story um and get it out but uh they talk 
so much that they begin to they're just 
resurrecting The Ghost and ret 
traumatizing themselves but anyway after 
this rejection stage comes indifference 
and finally post-traumatic growth and 
you say to yourself I'm not doing that 
again right we hope we hope we hope we 
hope and then and then you look at the 
divorce statistics right which are 40 to 
50% for first marriages 67% for second 
marriages 75% for third marriages it's 
like okay we hope we're going to grow 
and this kind of Loops back to what we 
were talking about it can you 
choose who you become attracted to and I 
think over the last 14 years we've seen 
yes you can when you date consciously 
you might be driven to find someone who 
I mean if we get you know Freudian let's 
say that's like my father or like my 
mother or like my brother but if you 
become not just aware of that but then 
if you're actually going to take action 
around it right so we will literally be 
in our clients they have dating 
scorecards and graphs and things to 
really help them through the process of 
red flags but really saying okay I think 
you're going down the same bad path 
again instead we have them look for what 
we call it's our new trademark called 
elevator people we have them Define the 
elevator people in their life the people 
that elevate you that make you happiest 
in your happiest relationships Define 
those characteristics and then we're 
going to start to prioritize those and 
how you want to feel so what happens is 
it's like the red sweater effect if I 
say Helen go into a party and tell me 
the 17 people that are wearing Reds red 
and you'll say okay or tell me the 
people that tell me how many people are 
wearing red you might come back and say 
okay there's 17 like but how many people 
were wearing purple and you're like you 
told me to look for red I didn't look 
for purple and and it's the same thing 
that when you start to prioritize 
different things I tell my clients it's 
like putting on a new set of lenses what 
you focus on will come into Focus 
ultimately so if you're looking at 
something that doesn't feel as 
compelling in the beginning but you stay 
the course you focus on this you give 
this like you'll let a bottle of wine 
breathe for an hour before you have a 
dinner party let the dates breathe give 
this person three five six dates take it 
slowly so you had asked before what like 
I do think I'm I don't I wouldn't say 
it's easy to not repeat old patterns and 
kind of be have someone not good for you 
light your flame and want to walk in 
that direction but with conscious effort 
and a plan I think you can choose people 
that are really good for you I think 
that's very cool I really really think 
that's very cool and I I do actually 
think that some societ 
um Trends are helping that and I wrote a 
lot about this it's I I call you the 
term slow love oh I love fact thank you 
um the fact that you know oh 50 years 
ago or so you know women married around 
age 21 and Men married around age 22 or 
23 now women are marrying at age it says 
this is the average or the median 
actually uh marrying around age uh 28 29 
and men are married around age 30 31 and 
the point being that there's this long 
period of um what I call the 
pre-commitment stage of of relationships 
is so much longer and what they're doing 
a lot of people are doing is just trying 
people out and they're before they marry 
and before they have the babies you know 
they're going to get rid of what they 
don't want learn more about themselves 
so that they can now focus on what they 
do and just to your point there about 
five or six days um I've looked in 80 
cultures through the demographic 
yearbooks of the United Nations and the 
longer you court and the older you are 
when you marry uh the less likely you 
are to 
divorce data on 3,000 Americans that 
said if you court for one to two years 
before you're married um you uh are 20% 
less likely to divorce and if you court 
for three or more years uh before you 
marry you're 39% less likely to divorce 
and that's what we're seeing around the 
world this slow love getting to know 
yourself trying people out getting rid 
of what you want before you got a family 
with that person and moving on and my 
hypothesis is that if you live you know 
spend good deal of time with somebody 
before you marry by the time you walk 
down that aisle you know who you got got 
you know you want who you got and you 
think you can keep who you've got and 
all the data show that that's the truth 
and I think is one of the reasons that 
I'm very happy about where we're at 
right now we got people like you giving 
you giving you a road map which is 
brilliant I loved what you just said um 
but uh also you've got 
time you know the society is no longer 
pressing uh pressing the young I mean I 
remember you know my husband has a son 
who's 24 well I don't know 50 years ago 
he would be regarded as you 
know long in the tooth for marriage I 
mean you know and now we say to him 
you're too young you have much to learn 
and figure out and try out before and I 
think that's the general attitude and I 
think it's a very healthy 
attitude I love that and just on a side 
note you are somewhat recently married 
tell us about we want to hear your love 
Journey the love gurus fell in love and 
got married isn't that amazing B amazing 
it is first of all I married him at age 
75 oh and um three years ago and as you 
can see I'm very spry I'm still very 
middle-aged all that um you're not old 
till you're old but anyway um I really 
wasn't looking to marry um um I had here 
I am probably pretty well known for 
studying love but and I had had three 
very long and really wonderful 
Partnerships and I've had many 
opportunities to marry and I've chosen 
not to and uh but anyway I'm crazy about 
this man I mean nuts about him I'm we've 
been going out for nine years I'm still 
in love with them by the way we've 
proven that we must talk about what 
happens in the brain in long-term real 
happy marriages but anyway the botom 
line is so we went out for about 5 
years and um then he asked me to marry 
him and I said to him I said well I'll 
be well I mean this was before he got 
down on his knee when he got down on his 
knee it was very romantic but this was 
before that and he said well I'm going 
to marry you Helen Fisher he said that 
one night at dinner and I said oh I said 
that's 
interesting um well I would marry you of 
course but I'm not moving 
in and I have not moved in now he lives 
up in the Bronx I live in Manhattan uh I 
have a small apartment he's got a nice 
big one but you know two or three nights 
a week uh I like to go out with my 
girlfriends I like to go to the theater 
I like to do this and that and he loves 
to sit there and read uh or watch sports 
Etc so 
uh I don't know if that I mean I I 
always intended to give him anything I 
had I had never had any intention of of 
leaving him ever ever um but I hadn't 
thought of marrying him and I say to him 
sweetheart why is it different that 
we're married because for 
me it really isn't different I like his 
name better than mine I haven't changed 
it but I'm too old for that but I like 
his name better and there times that I 
go with his last name which which I 
really like but no I've always felt that 
same intense feeling but he says it's 
richer and deeper and that's what it is 
to him but I should tell you this one uh 
I don't know if you have time for a 
story but absolutely it's a Charming 
story well he had been inter he he 
worked for the New York Times as as a 
writer for 21 years and he had 
interviewed me several times in the past 
but and I knew him but you know I never 
put the make on a journalist and he 
doesn't make put the anyway the bottom 
line is we both invited to a very fancy 
Ranch uh way in the mountains you have 
to either walk in uh 11 miles or take a 
horse and wagon because it's um it's 
right on Yellowstone between Yellowstone 
and another National Park so you can't 
go in motorized anyway they this fellow 
our good friend of ours invited us 
separately I mean I barely knew him John 
his name is John John Tierney and um 
during that week I really liked him but 
I wasn't going to Pi make any moves but 
anyway the bottom line is he offered to 
give me a a ride back to the Boseman 
airport so we were the only two in the 
car and uh it was a two and a half hour 
drive during the quest of this he tells 
me that he's going through this terrible 
divorce which he was and then he says 
I'm never going out with another I'm 
never getting serious about another 
woman I'm never going to and I think to 
myself 
geez I'm the only one in the car he's 
I'm trying to tell me something is this 
a message are you telegramm me exactly 
and part of me was Charmed that he was 
so honest and part of me was 
hurt but anyway so for about a year he 
would invite me to the Opera he'd invite 
me to this place and every six weeks and 
then we he'd walk me to the subway give 
me a big hug and uh and I'd go home 
alone so after a year of this he invited 
me to go um um out to dinner and walk 
the Highland which is a beautiful walk 
in middle of Manhattan and then go play 
pool so I said fine and I don't know 
Bella what came over me I had not 
planned this in the in before and we 
were having our drinks and I pulled the 
cocktail napkin out from underneath my 
drink and I said to I said why don't we 
just secretly write down what we would 
like to have if we went at pool on this 
[ __ ] on our cocktail napkin so I wrote 
down on mine a real kiss fed up with the 
hug and this is a 
year a date to month basically after a 
year and he I didn't know what he 
written down so we go play pool and sure 
enough he had grown up with a pool table 
in his basement I probably played pool 
five times he creamed 
me so I opened his uh cocktail napkin 
and it wrote sex and 
clarity and I said okay I got the sex 
part but what do you have in mind for 
clarity and basically he wanted friends 
with 
benefits and I said to him I said uh we 
we started walking up town it was way 
too late it was like 3: in the morning 
way too late to start anything and I 
said to him I said listen you know I 
study love and when you start to have 
sex with 
somebody you can drive the dopamine 
system and fall in love are you willing 
to take that chance and he said 
yes wow and and did you ask yourself am 
I willing to take oh I was totally for 
it I was totally oh no I was I was I was 
after him but being you're ready to hop 
in I was ready to hop into the whole 
enchilada and then after about three 
months this is I think helpful maybe 
helpful for your listeners 
um after about three months but he had a 
son and he was a single father he had to 
get home for dinner I understood why he 
wanted the Friends with Benefits he'd 
gone through a horrible divorce really 
bad and he and his son just weren't 
ready for anything so he would come over 
in the afternoon we'd kiss and hug and 
he would go we'd go out for dinner so it 
wasn't quite friends with benefits and 
then he'd go home which was okay anyway 
uh I was madly in love with them of 
course and after about 3 months uh he 
said to me he said you know Helen I just 
can't take anymore I can't take anything 
I'm so overwhelmed with this incredible 
problem with this for wife and uh and 
being a single father we'll have to 
break up I said okay I three months in 
to this new sex and Clarity relationship 
yes it was the end of everything and 
uh I start at the edge of my bed and 
cried and played songs to kill yourself 
[Laughter] 
by but Bella I never called I never 
wrote and I never showed 
up and during that period of 
time he came to understand that here was 
a woman that wasn't going to pin him to 
the 
floor that he would be free to come back 
if he wanted to I mean you know I didn't 
think he would ever come back I I I I I 
believed him um but he learned that I 
wasn't going to be a 
clingy uh thing and about six weeks 
later he wrote me a note and said uh I 
think I made a terrible mistake so then 
I thought to myself well okay made this 
mistake what should I do now should I 
invite him back over in the 
afternoon do we pick up where we left 
off 
John which I did and and finally and 
we're extreme extremely happily married 
you can remain in love long term I have 
proven that in the 
brain Wow have you guys been in the 
scanner um no oh okay thought you're 
like I have approved this I'm 
like well what I did what I I actually 
put myself in this scanner before we've 
put over a 100 people in the scanner 
doing studying various things that I I 
always felt that I should go in first 
before I put anybody in I thought it 
would be unethical actually to uh you 
know you lie in there with your head in 
a bit of a vice for you know an hour I 
mean you make we make you very 
comfortable warm blankets you know uh 
you know pillows under your knees you 
know I I really prepare people but 
nevertheless I so I've been in but no I 
didn't even know him I went in in 200 I 
don't know three when I started my brain 
scanning but anyway wow with um 17 
people who were in their 50s and 60s s 
they were all married an average of 21 
years and they all kept coming into the 
lab saying to me I'm still in love with 
her not just loving but in love with 
her 
um after this long in these long 
marriages you know new Americans don't 
believe that you can remain in love long 
term they say oh it moves into 
attachment and that's that that's not 
true 
um you can remain in love as well as 
deeply attached because we put these 17 
people into the brain scanner and sure 
enough did exactly the same experiment 
that we did with the people who had just 
Fallen happily in love young people and 
we were able to see exactly the same 
pattern in the brain uh now there was 
one difference um we saw exactly the 
same uh activity in the vental T metal a 
area pumping out the dopamine giving you 
that Elation you Euphoria giddiness Etc 
we found also of course a great deal of 
activity in brain regions L with 
attachment and the sex 
drive but what we didn't find was 
activity in a certain part of the 
insular cortex a little area linked with 
anxiety when you have just Fallen madly 
in love you're anxious what did I say 
that for am I too fat am I too thin I 
should I shouldn't what should I wear 
how you're anxious you're just anxious 
and of course after 21 years of marriage 
people are no longer anxious although I 
must say there are times that I I said 
I'll say something to my husband uh and 
then I think later about I say oh I 
maybe I shouldn't have said that and I 
do get anxious but I think that's 
because I'm still in love with them yeah 
because you care you love you never want 
to hurt no and you you don't want to get 
anything on the wrong foot foot 
and oh no I'm if I wasn't so deathly 
afraid of MRIs that's a whole another I 
crawl out of tubes all the time I'm a 
terrible 
claustrophobe and so am I oh 
I like if I think about it yeah I 
literally go 
into panic and someone said well you can 
take some Xanax I'm like you don't know 
my brain I think it would need general 
anesthesia by the way you know I I I 
told all the people that I mean I don't 
even after I die I don't want them to 
put me in a box yes no create me please 
the Indians we create absolutely put me 
in the ocean you know I'll feed the fish 
but I'm not sitting in a box even if I'm 
dead um no and I had to um and so I had 
to put myself in and by the way before I 
put in anybody else I just thought it 
was I said 
unethical and so I 
I did go in and I used a line from 
Shakespeare's King Le uh and the line is 
at one point that way Madness lies that 
way Madness lies and then I would say 
Helen don't touch the 
sides don't look at the 
sides you know uh but the the guy that 
runs the scanner who said he said Helen 
you're not that Clos because somebody 
like you Bella probably can't even look 
at the 
machine I can look at it I I'll look at 
it but as soon as as soon as I go in to 
right here you're dead I'm like I gotta 
get out I gotta get out so um so I am 
going to get an MRI on my lower back but 
I found my girlfriend who's also clust 
told me there's a sitting machine that 
you can go to up in the 
suburbs but I would your head and 
shoulders probably would not be in it no 
and you're sitting in a little machine 
I'm like okay but I think the f I I love 
everything you've done that's amazing 
that people can be in love in their 50s 
and all of the regions light up like the 
newly in love people in their 20s or 30s 
I'm guessing but the ones that have been 
married longer have lower anxiety how 
beautiful is that isn't it beautiful you 
know amazing yeah we were built by the 
way to um uh you know to have good 
relationships you know I'm sure you know 
this but people in good relationships 
live five to seven years longer and just 
plain old healthier I mean in a good 
positive relationship it lowers blood 
pressure lowers cholesterol and cortisol 
the stress hormone um you sustain your 
mood and your memory and mental agility 
better when you have a long solid real 
good relationship when you get hugs from 
somebody um it's driving up the oxytocin 
giving you feelings of calm and security 
as you laugh with somebody it's driving 
up the dopamine system and that's uh 
boosting the immune system and even 
boosting the endorphins for for less 
pain and when you play with somebody 
there's brain growth and you know we 
were built to love we were built to love 
and people will say well why after the 
years of reproduction would you why 
would it have been adaptive to sustain 
this brain system for romantic love and 
basically it's because having this kind 
of positive experience I mean let's dial 
back in million years on the grasslands 
of Africa you you're traveling a little 
hunting the Gathering group and you're 
in your 
60s uh you know and if you've got 
somebody who you can trust and confide 
in who respects you who makes you laugh 
who spends enough time with you but also 
gives you those hugs for the oxytocin 
and the laughter that drives up the 
dopamine and you can play with them it's 
good for the whole band it's good the 
whole neighborhood if people are in good 
uh you know in good uh have have 
somebody by the way you know you're 
talking about divorce it's so 
interesting the 
worldwide I looked at divorce in this 
one of my books in anatomy of love I 
looked at divorce of course all over the 
world 
and um the worldwide 
attitude that seems to be most expressed 
is summed up by the Mongol people of 
Siberia who say if two people 
cannot live harmoniously together they 
had better live 
apart wow and of course for millions of 
years we lived in these little hunting 
and Gathering groups and it would have 
been very maladaptive to have people 
fighting and screaming at each other and 
you know hurting each other 
Etc you know and so it was we've evolved 
this tremendous need to find the right 
partner and enjoy the right partner and 
actually leave when things are no 
goddamn good 
so I love that these days we actually 
can you know on the far you were really 
stuck uh you know I mean you really 
can't move cut the wheat field in half 
and move it out of town you can't cut 
the cow in half you know I mean these 
days at least you can divide a $10 bill 
uh you know and divide the money for the 
house etc etc so actually what's really 
happening is we're moving forward to the 
kinds of Partnerships that we had a 
million years ago in a million years ago 
uh men and women were really economic 
equals women to together their fruits 
and vegetables they came home with 60 to 
80% of the evening meal the double 
income family was the rule and either 
the men or the woman could walk out if 
they needed to and find a happier 
partnership we're moving forward to the 
Past really and I'm very excited about 
it I am too you know as we as we guide 
people through their relationships right 
once they you know at through our 
coaching process once they find an 
exclusive partner then it's are we in 
alignment is this person really an 
elevator person for you and and we've 
you know miraculously had zero divorces 
in 14 
years isn't that wonderful since the 
Inception of the company now not 
everybody wants to get married but those 
that do what's interesting Helen is many 
people people that say I don't need to 
get married again I don't want to get 
married when you meet the right person 
they're like you know what I do want to 
do this because what did John say it's 
richer and deeper and deeper and you 
feel that when you meet the right person 
and I tell women especially at this 
point and we coach a lot of women that 
relationships where we are true Partners 
we the vend diagrams of of what's 
traditionally male and traditionally 
female have a closer intersection those 
relationships become more healthy long 
term to your point if we I said think 
about being in a car you both have your 
driver's licenses you can both drive but 
you can also switch and be the 
passengers that's a great relationship 
if you need to drive you can drive and 
when you're sleepy he can drive and vice 
yep that's lovely 
and uh yeah I mean my relationship is 
absolutely Charming absolutely 
delightful and you know what um let's 
say when we're on the subway and he'll 
give me a kiss I rather like people 
seeing an older couple being romantic 
with each other I'm tired of thinking 
that old people are older people are not 
yeah this a brain system that lasts all 
your life and uh you know I'm sure you 
have people who are older do you have 
people who were older a significant part 
of our population are singles over 50 
you know and that's why when people ask 
me what do you think about the golden 
Bachelor I'm like it's about time right 
isn't the data show that 35 million of 
the 118 million singles are over the age 
of 50 I'm like that's a sizable part of 
the population if you strip out you know 
18 to 28 it becomes an even more 
substantial percentage of the population 
and speaking of that I wanted to go back 
a little bit in detail if you don't mind 
about the people that have been happily 
married for over 20 years and their 
brains light up in the same way are 
there things that contribute to that 
like things that we can do in our 
relationships that you know whether dear 
listener you're in a new relationship 
you've been in a relationship for two 
years or you're like me and you've been 
married over 20 years wonderful question 
and I've got what I think is just a 
wonderful answer about the brain it's 
not my answer it's the brain's answer I 
just stumbled onto it but anyway we yes 
we put 17 people into the brain scanner 
we did exactly the same experiment and 
of course before you put anybody in a 
brain scanner well with with us anyway 
you we give them lots of questionnaires 
and one of the questionnaires was a 
questionnaire on happiness and so after 
putting the 17 people in the question 
into the fmri brain scanner and found 
that sure enough they were still in love 
deeply attached sex drive was cooking 
along Etc we comp we looked at those who 
were really happy we compared those who 
scored very high in our happiness scale 
with what happens in the brain and this 
is what the brain says about longterm 
happiness psychologists say a lot of 
wonderful thing about what keeps a happy 
relationship ship together this is what 
the brain says three brain regions 
became activated a brain region linked 
with empathy a brain region linked with 
controlling your own stress and your own 
emotions and a brain region linked with 
um overcoming the negative posi 
Illusions there's a huge brain region uh 
linked with what's called negativity 
bias we are built to remember a negative 
and that's been adaptive for millions of 
years let's say you and were walking 
along uh the grasslands of Africa I 
don't know 500,000 years ago and it was 
great that you like me and I liked you 
but if we forgot the girl that didn't 
like us we could die I mean you know you 
could go to a party and everybody will 
say oh this that next and then one 
person will say have you gained a little 
weight what do you do you go home that's 
all you remember we we remember the 
negative for good evolutionary darwinian 
reasons and activity in that brain 
region with remembering the negative 
with negativity bias 
reduces so you're able to overlook the 
negative so empathy controlling your own 
stress and your own emotions and the 
ability to overlook the negative uh 
positive 
Illusions and for example in my life I 
my husband's a brilliant man and he's 
truly hilarious I mean it's an 
outstanding trait of his and he's 
wonderfully sexy he's just got it all 
but he cannot turn out a light he just 
simply can't turn out a light and I got 
some fancy lights in here where you just 
just don't turn the ball but you got to 
get all kinds of screwdrivers and open 
big 
fancy things I want the lights turned 
out he can't turn out a light just can't 
turn out a light so first I said 
sweetheart could you turn out the 
lights that didn't work 
then I saidwell you know I I gave him 
some if you turn out the lights then d 
da d da D that didn't work at all and 
then I started to bargain with him and I 
finally said Helen give up just go turn 
out the light and as I go turn out the 
light I say well he didn't turn out the 
light but he's so hilarious he's so 
Charming he's so good-looking he's so 
interesting he's so so sexy I'm just 
overlooking the 
negative oh my gosh and I bet if I asked 
you to make a list of the people in your 
life that make you happiest and make you 
feel really good about yourself I bet 
you he'd be number one on your list oh 
no question about it it be one through 
five one through 
25 John the quintessential elevator 
person yes absolutely no I want that for 
everybody you know and people like you 
giving them a map I think that was very 
interesting I didn't know all that um 
and do you also sort of say to him look 
you're going down the wrong road here 
every day every day every day like hey 
hey hey hey hey you have a pension for 
narcissistic men or women or this person 
is showing clear signs of being 
avoidant right and a lot of these people 
everybody looks great when the sun is 
shining right when right everybody can 
look great a wolf in sheep's clothing 
looks like a sheep right everybody and 
what and this gets back to something we 
talked about in the beginning how do you 
know if this person is good for you or 
not time and repeated exposures right 
absolutely I once read something that I 
have no idea whether it's true or not 
but um that you really don't get to know 
somebody until about um over 17 months 
of in a 
relationship and then of course whenever 
there's a crisis you get to know a whole 
lot more about them and it's so funny 
because I think an awful lot of people I 
think actually I think we having a very 
enlightened 
um uh citizenship these days I think 
that people you know I do this annual 
study with match called singles in 
America I love it yeah we don't poll the 
match members it's a national represent 
pres ative sample so it's real science 
and 
uh only every year we ask you know you 
obviously we ask what you're looking for 
um and whether you are looking for a 
long-term partnership only about 
11% everever say I just want to date 
casually people are looking for real 
relationships men as well as women and 
we started out talk we don't understand 
men but I don't think we understand 
women either but all of my data shows 
that you don't know men fall in love 
faster than women do they fall in love 
more often than women do when they meet 
somebody who they are in love they want 
to introduce them to friends and family 
sooner now from a darwinian perspective 
that would be called mate guarding 
saying look She's 
mine um and men are two and a half times 
more likely to kill themselves when a 
relationship is over there our women's 
magazines seem to think 
that women are the Romantic people 
actually men are somewhat more romantic 
IC than women are I think also for good 
reasons I mean for millions of years 
women had the very dangerous job of of 
not of of carrying a baby for nine 
months and then delivering that 
child and so women I find over and over 
we've got data now uh on over 60 million 
Americans through the singles in America 
study we've been doing it for 12 years 
um women are the picky sex 
100% 
100% 
100% we coach men and we coach women and 
I know one of the first questions I ask 
them you as we get to this elevator 
person concept is describe your dream 
man if it's a woman looking for a man or 
describe your dream woman and it's funny 
I actually I I did a tedx talk about 
this a couple of years ago the secret to 
finding lasting love and I said the 
number one 
thing that over 1500 women have said to 
me like the number one characteristic of 
their dream guy can you guess what it 
is well they say respect um uh and 
somebody I can trust and confide and 
that's what they say on the singles 
America what what do they say to 
you 
[Laughter] 
tall ideally over six feet and so I'm 
thinking you know at first I thought 
these could have been a few red herrings 
and when I started the business in 2009 
and then you know by 
20145 I'm like I think we're sitting out 
a good repository of data here that show 
tall is really significant or taller 
than me ideally you know over 510 over 
six feet and now I you know like quoting 
statistics like if you know that only 12 
to 14% of us men are over six feet tall 
so if you think about percentage 
multipliers and you put a 100 guys in a 
room and I tell this to my clients and 
if you say I'd like him to be over six 
feet you've opened the door and you've 
asked 88 of them to 
leave yes now you're left with 12 now 
you want a particular decade maybe a 
particular ethnicity a 
particular education level and just 
basic barriers and what happen and how 
quickly we can narrow down a population 
of 100,000 to three right exactly and 
they're like that's depressing I said 
but it's not depressing it's just math 
so know that love is going to come to 
you in an unexpected package and look at 
dating as a treasure hunt right when you 
focus on something different looking for 
elevator people different people are 
going to start to become attractive to 
you so isn't fun so but the tall thing 
always cracks me up well my hypothesis 
is I I I would I don't I'm not positive 
but I think it may be built with the 
testosterone system but I'm not sure but 
I do know um mathematically that tall 
men uh tend to raise higher in the 
social ladder um get better jobs and 
make more money and and from a darwinian 
perspective uh if a woman is looking for 
toll she is she wouldn't tell you this 
but she does nor does she know this but 
for millions of years she probably would 
have had a partner who could provide 
more for her children yeah so it was 
it's an Adaptive mechanism on some crazy 
level you know in in in this whole realm 
of crazy um things that people want I 
once on the singles in America um study 
asked uh what are the first things you 
notice in somebody and you know I had 30 
boxes you could check everything 
anything the top three things that 
people me notice the very first things 
is their teeth their grammar and their 
self-confidence so we sat around at 
match and said wow what could that be 
about and it began to occur to me oh wow 
your teeth show your age your and and 
and some of your eating habits um your 
grammar shows your uh socioeconomic 
background and education and your 
self-confidence shows your psychological 
stability so all of these things like 
tall or teeth or something they ring 
true when you understand how we 
evolved we you know I mean we evolved to 
I mean women want a good partner to help 
them raise their babies and they got to 
have somebody the right age they got to 
have somebody the right background for 
them and they pretty good to have 
somebody who's self-confident and we 
naturally truly do this so tall put now 
into darwinian perspective makes more 
sense but then you know you're not going 
to get everything I mean my guy can't 
turn the lights out okay that's fine he 
can't turn the lights 
out he's got other things instead but uh 
you know we're trying to find life's 
greatest 
prize a mating 
partner no wonder somebody will Whittle 
it down from 10,000 to three now it's 
not realistic and that's where you come 
in and give them the map and get them 
figuring out where they're doing some 
crazy 
thinking right and it's a little 
sometimes it feels like a bucket of ice 
at that moment poured on their heads but 
I'm like but get excited because when we 
cast our net out a little wider and 
focus on qualities that are going to 
make this relationship happy and 
last with you know we've had no divorces 
think about how exciting this is going 
to be different people are going to 
start to become attractive to you 
exactly and you know I was I was going 
out I remember I was going out with this 
guy he was really cool guy but he was 
short and overweight and balding and I 
remember walking in Central Park and he 
was walking and I just got just just 
beginning to get to know him and he was 
walking towards me and I said how could 
I like this guy I mean this is 
ridiculous and 3 weeks later I thought 
he was the prettiest animal on the 
planet oh I love that the negative you 
know positive Illusions we're built to 
do that when you love and you can 
Overlook all kinds of things you just 
have to keep overlooking them right that 
becomes hard when we get into that 
negativity bias right and you gotta pull 
yourself back out of that and it's a 
conscious effort and I you know 
um absolutely I I have a wonderful 
friend who you know Amy and her husband 
once wrote on the bathroom mirror 
positive 
Illusions I'm sure my husband's gonna 
listen to this and I always I'm like why 
does nobody in this house turn the 
lights off right I grew up with parents 
they were immigrants they saved every 
scent it's like you walk out of room you 
turn the lights off or somebody's going 
to be berating you at some moment right 
so now that's in me turn the lights off 
turn the lights off and so I I get it 
and now I I literally 
say he's a good man turn the lights off 
yourself for you good for you 
absolutely oh my gosh you were I mean 
there you know I I'm not a techie and my 
husband wants me to put the put what's 
going on on a mutual calendar on the 
computer it's a perfectly reasonable 
thing to ask 
me but all my life I've just written it 
in my little address book which I cart 
with me everywhere and I just don't get 
to 
it and I it's my fault it's my fault so 
any I even bargain with them I even said 
if you turn the lights off I'll put 
things in the calendar didn't work 
didn't work did right I think we should 
make it I think we should make t-shirts 
positive 
Illusions oh that's a wonderful idea 
that's a wonderful idea it's so Charming 
that's very Charming are there any other 
gems you want to leave us 
with I guess I'd like to say just a 
couple things about 
um online 
dating and the two big mistakes that 
people people 
make the first big mistake that they 
make and I know you know this but they 
may not have heard it um is that people 
binge and the problem with binging is 
that the brain is not built to 
um uh absorb more than five to nine 
options and after about nine options you 
choose 
nobody so if I would say the if you're 
going to do online dating and I am very 
much for it for various reasons which I 
can tell you um don't binge that's 
number one and the only other second one 
is um think of reasons to say yes 
instead of 
no he likes dogs you like cats forget it 
you know I mean if it's really obvious 
then you you know but but we do have 
this negativity bias and you've got to 
realize that the brain is tricking you a 
bit so don't binge think of reasons to 
say yes instead of no and you know 
um do a decent 
profile uh 80 68% of people actually 
really do read that 
profile uh you know did you guys hear 
that dear listener they do read your 
profiles it's not just your photos no by 
far get get do your Spell correctly get 
your grammar right get some good 
pictures of you and don't have pictures 
of you kissing a girlfriend in the past 
I mean forget it you know I mean there's 
a lot of things that I could say and I 
don't want to want to to keep you with 
it but uh uh avoid the 
cliches uh I mean these people who start 
with are with well I like you know long 
walks at midnight on the beach well we 
all do there's nothing new there you 
know um don't be 
specific uh you know instead of 
I'm a caring person say well I I get up 
on Saturday morning early and and work 
in a Food Kitchen or whatever you know a 
soup kitchen or something so I mean work 
on that 
profile uh so that uh it really 
represents who you are ask Bella what 
she thinks of your 
profile you know during coid I I used to 
hire writers that would write our 
clients profiles and I always thought if 
I could train people how to write these 
profiles that had never met my clients I 
could probably write a workbook to do 
this so during Co with extra time on my 
hands I actually put together a workbook 
with eight different questions and lots 
of you know examples of good profiles 
and so now what I love is that our 
clients which can range from age 22 to 
believe it or not 82 they've all taken 
this workbook and they all write these 
amazing profiles that can be gone Bo 
right on Match so it's it's awesome so 
yeah you're right if you guys need some 
help get into our one-on-one coaching 
practice because as Helen and I both 
know Peak dating season is coming up 
around the corner in December I can't 
believe it right I know I can't either 
but anyway and so I guess the very last 
thing I mean that I would end up saying 
is that I mean there's a million things 
to talk about and but the bottom line is 
you know love is 
Eternal adaptable and primordial it's 
always going to be with us and any time 
that you can find the right partner 82 
is perfectly fine to find the right 
paper I did it at 75 it's totally 
possible and you're just going to live a 
happier longer healthier life and so be 
hopeful love can come to you absolutely 
you just got to try it does take some 
work you know 
positive Illusions about online dating 
there you go but even getting on to the 
dating sites it does take some work but 
as I say you're trying to win Life's 
greatest prize so it's all worth 
it I love it and being an advisor to 
match and knowing the gizzards of online 
dating I love that you connected with 
someone that you had known in real life 
for many many years and let it grow and 
you traversed the ups and the Downs with 
patience and you know kind of there were 
those wrenching moments and you made it 
through and now it I can sense how happy 
and in love and peaceful you are thank 
you kid I am I definitely am and I wish 
it for everybody else and by the way 
I'll probably write in a memoir sometime 
and I've really learned so much more 
about love in my 70s I've been writing 
about this Bella since I was in my early 
20s I got my PhD studying this you know 
and here I am finally figuring it 
out it's worth it you're in the arena 
I'm in the arena this time and I'm 
sticking with it oh thank you so much 
for honoring us and me with being a 
guest on the podcast I'm so grateful 
this my soul is elevated oh you're a 
sweetheart I'm enriched kid and tell me 
um how does one get that workbook is 
there a way to get the workbook and do 
you sell it we don't yet it's part of 
our one-on-one process for our clients 
yeah they really like it and the first 
time it worked it was a 73y old from the 
south side of Chicago that filled it out 
and I kid you not and I was so nervous 
like is it going to work what's and when 
her she says belly here's my profile for 
the workshop I read it and I broke down 
in tears in our kitchen and my husband's 
like what are you crying about and I 
said it worked it 
worked it worked it work well what about 
the map did you write that in a 
book the map of how they go and you know 
find a 
partner should I do this should I do it 
oh God yes absolutely I think it's a 
magnificent idea 
oh sure I'm 
interested oh well I love that well I 
will have you I mean it won't even put 
you out of business I don't think I mean 
because I don't know you got to think 
about all that but so many people would 
be oh they'd buy it for their daughter 
they'd buy it for their son they'd you 
know even if they're not looking and if 
even if they don't need any advice 
themselves I mean you know you're in the 
greatest profession on Earth I mean 
finding love is essential to 
happiness I love I can't imagine any 
other work I started this company 14 
years ago you know I wish I would have 
been in my 20s like you when I started 
but I can't imagine any more work and 
I'm sure you feel this way that gives 
you more purpose than helping people 
find the lid to their pot and 
understanding how to do that and I'm so 
grateful that you shared so much of your 
wisdom with us today well thank you kid 
thank you thank you thank you 
Bella smart daters Be Inspired love can 
come to you at 25 35 75 or heck 95 
There's No Holds Barred here so um keep 
that psychotic optimism going have 
positive Illusions about your own dating 
life even though it might feel like the 
Sahara desert right now I want you to 
keep the faith that at one point I 
promise you somebody's going to show up 
in your life either as a match in your 
inbox or maybe somebody that you've 
known all your life or maybe somebody 
that's going to set you up on a date 
with and it's going to be your last 
first date I promise so keep the faith 
that that person is out there and 
remember as a psychotic Optimist love 
will come to me it's a when not an if go 
write that in red lipstick on your 
bathroom mirror if you need that 
optimism so we'll see you next week and 
thank you again Dr Fischer thank you I'm 
delighted 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm bellagande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smartdators 
welcome back to this week's episode and 
this week is especially special for me 
because it's someone that I know and 
love and met three years ago and her 
name is Anushka and she is a Smart 
dating client former client because now 
she's found the lidoor pot and 
um current friend so Anushka welcome to 
the podcast I'm so glad you're here 
thank you I'm excited to be here and I 
know we talked about sharing my story so 
I'm finally ready to share it with the 
world oh my gosh you guys okay so she 
said when we were working together we 
were talking about something and her 
photos were so pretty or I must have 
asked her like can I pop can I like 
share your photos on a TV segment as I 
do like before and afters I must have 
said something she's like Bella once I 
get engaged you can share my story far 
and wide so guess what not only is she 
engaged but 
she's already married so we're so 
excited for you to tell us where you 
were what your journey was and how you 
got to where you are now so 
um you and I met three years ago and why 
don't you just start out with like a 
little bit of background about you your 
family where you were how you grew up 
give us the goods yeah sure so I guess 
from the time I've I was young I've 
always been pretty type A and pretty 
driven 
um I am from a South Asian family both 
my parents Sri Lankan 
um I don't know how much that had to do 
with how driven I am or how crazy and 
type A I am but if I'm guessing it 
played a little part in it probably a 
small for probably many of us on this 
podcast call 
but I always had a clear idea in my mind 
from the time I was very little of like 
exactly what I wanted to achieve in life 
and then the timeline I wanted to 
achieve it on 
so from the time I was probably 10 I was 
like I need to go to an Ivy League 
college and then I need to get a really 
good job and then I want to get married 
by the time I'm 27 and then I want to 
have two kids by the time I'm 35 and 
that was like the perfect picture that I 
painted for myself that was like the 
epitome of success of what my future 
would look like that's what so many of 
us think right it's like you sit there 
and you Daydream like yes I'm gonna go 
to an Ivy League school and yes I'm 
gonna get married and yes I'm going to 
have kids as if it all just magically 
happens when it should and pops into our 
laps right and exactly and sometimes 
that happens but a lot of times it 
doesn't happen 
it doesn't happen so so now what happens 
so you make it did you go to an Ivy 
League school you did you did 
um yeah I did and I kind of like felt 
like I you know was really achieving 
everything I wanted to achieve in terms 
of my job and my schooling and my 
background I had a ton of friends 
um but as I started to get into like my 
late 20s I started to question oh shoot 
like this timeline I've set for myself 
on getting married and having kids is 
starting to look less and less realistic 
um and so that started to worry me 
um 
at the time I guess by the time I was 30 
I had moved to Boston I had finished 
grad school where I got my second ivy 
league degree 
um with us where you went just to 
inspire all of us 
um for undergrad I went to UPenn and for 
grad I went to uh the tuck School of 
Business which is at darknet so two very 
different experiences but um experiences 
that I think got me where I am today 
both in terms of personal and 
professional life 
um so I think that's how it gets 
interesting but yeah so I moved to 
Boston and 
um started to realize like shoot I'm 27. 
I thought I was going to be married at 
this point 
um at that point I had one serious 
relationship which was my boyfriend that 
I had met in grad school 
um and that didn't pan out very well no 
I was a great guy but he just wasn't the 
right person for me yeah he realized 
that before I did so that was tough 
he came to that conclusion before I did 
and I accepted into that conclusion 
before I did but I do like to think that 
like at least I had that one bad breakup 
experience so now I can commiserate and 
understand like what other people are 
going through when they're going through 
a breakup because that never I never 
understood like how it could be so 
heartbreaking and I would look at others 
that were going through a breakup and 
just like laugh at them and be like 
they're ridiculous 
um so I think it built my empathy for 
for other people it's so sucky isn't it 
it's terrible 
it was terrible but in hindsight 
definitely the best thing for me 
um and for him 
but yeah so then at that point I had 
moved to Boston I was 30 
um had a great group of friends in 
Boston had the most amazing apartment 
had like my dream job out of grad school 
but 
um had spent a lot of time on online 
dating apps and could not get a date 
like I think I shared with you like in 
our first meeting or even when I reached 
out to you actually that like I've been 
on these apps for like three years now 
I can get matches which I don't think I 
really even got that many matches 
compared to my friends but like I can't 
get a person to respond to my messages 
we're like what 
I don't know what was happening but I 
just like went on maybe two dates in 
three years like 
it was even though I was actively trying 
um and so at that point I started to get 
like really worried 
um really down on myself like my friends 
were like don't worry you're a great cat 
like you're awesome you're gonna find 
someone it just takes time and I'm like 
but I've been trying like for three 
years and I haven't gotten anywhere 
um that must have been hard 
yeah it was really hard like all my 
friends were starting to get married 
um or they were engaged or most of them 
were in serious relationships and so I 
could just start to see people like 
achieving that timeline that I was so 
um fixated on and I was just felt like I 
was like falling behind 
um but then I also started to realize 
like not only am I falling behind my 
timeline but I'm also like potentially 
going to be alone forever oh that really 
felt scary 
right you're like what are the 
consequences of not meeting the 
objective plan yeah exactly it's like 
okay the timeline probably doesn't 
matter as much as just finding someone 
that is going to be the right person for 
me to spend the rest of my life with 
um so I actually started Weight Watchers 
because I was convinced that it had 
something to do with my weight 
um on why I wasn't meeting anyone I 
guess for reference I'm most people 
would probably say I'm not overweight 
we're not I've seen you I don't think I 
knew this part of the story 
but yeah I was like okay it must have 
like if I was skinnier it would be 
easier to meet someone 
um and so I started Weight Watchers and 
through Weight Watchers started 
following these like fit fluencers on 
Instagram 
um and like love to look at their Pages 
for inspiration and one of the people I 
started following was someone on 
Instagram with the handle everything 
Erica yeah everything Erica Erica Eckman 
and she also had a podcast that I 
stumbled upon through her Instagram and 
there were a couple episodes on the 
podcast where Bellows featured and Smart 
dating Academy was featured and it was 
all about like how to find the right 
relationship and I was like oh my God I 
need This Woman's help 
so I was like all my prayers have been 
answered like let me just reach out to 
this person and see if she can help me 
and so that's how I heard about you and 
when I first reached out to you 
wow and do you remember what was our 
first interaction like and then what 
happened 
um I think it was a phone call 
um and you just started talking to me 
and I was just so struck by like how 
effusive your personality was and how 
you just like understood what I was 
going through and 
I think you were just like I can help 
you like there's there like you know 
this isn't like rocket science I can 
help you 
um and so it just gave me a lot of Hope 
um that 
I've always been a great student I feel 
like I can study really hard and pass a 
test and it just gave me hope that like 
maybe there is maybe I'm doing this 
wrong and like I there's a teacher that 
can teach me how to do this and I can be 
a great student I know I can do that so 
it just gave me a ton of hope that like 
things could turn around I hope for 
those of you listening you're hearing 
this and maybe you've listened to so 
many things and you've read so many 
things and you've done all the things 
but if you find yourself like Anushka 
going okay I've been doing this for 
three years five years 10 years 20 years 
and it's not working just know that 
there are ways to get help through this 
process sometimes we feel so isolated 
and like we're the last single person on 
Earth and maybe we're too damaged like 
you said I'm too heavy I'm too old I'm 
never gonna find love and all that stuff 
all of these things multiply in our 
heads but we're here to tell tell you 
number one there is help and you are 
incredibly lovable as you are just like 
I said to Anushka like you can do this 
we can help you so so we have this 
conversation you're like Yay let's do 
this so now you fly to Chicago and what 
happens 
yeah which is where we're based if 
you're a new listener we're based in 
Chicago and we do photo shoots and fun 
stuff here 
yeah so I flew to Chicago 
um and was excited to meet with you and 
Lindsay we met up and I just remember 
that first meeting which was like 
several hours long I was really excited 
because it was at the Four Seasons so I 
was just excited for lunch at the Four 
Seasons 
um but also to get started and and to to 
change my life hopefully 
um and so I remember in that first 
meeting one of the things you asked me 
to do was like list out all the 
characteristics I was looking for in my 
ideal person 
and 
I've had this list of probably like 30 
40 things I was looking for that had 
been in my head from the time I was 12. 
probably of like all the things I was 
looking for someone who's smarter than 
me someone who has a better job than me 
someone who's like physically attractive 
someone who's tall someone who's good 
with my family just like the list went 
on and on and on 
and you basically said okay that's a 
great list great job with that exercise 
and I was like great I've like really 
nailed it 
and you were like okay now we're gonna 
rip up this list because this is not 
what you should be looking for in a 
partner 
um this like has no relevance to what 
you're looking for and we did that 
exercise where 
I think we you helped asked me to think 
about people in my life that made me 
feel really good to be around yeah and 
your elevator people yeah and describe 
the characteristics of those people 
and you help me realize that's actually 
what I should be looking for in a 
partner 
and do you remember what were the most 
important things that came out of your 
list your elevator list 
yeah I think it was really just feeling 
being around people who made me feel 
supported and loved 
um and 
yeah who just felt good to be around 
um where I felt my best when I was 
around them it was hard to pinpoint like 
exact characteristics but it was just 
this more of like a feeling than a list 
of of things that that I wanted 
100 and I have the list by the way of 
course as I save everybody's list but 
yeah it you know and abiding by 
those things that really make you happy 
as one of the touch points for finding a 
partner that makes you happy helps you 
avoid all the crap that we're fed by 
Society like oh you need to have 
butterflies in your stomach right 
because butterflies are just red flags 
so so so we started to date in a 
different way but so after we did our 
lunch at the photo shoot now you knew 
personally after this three-hour meeting 
who exactly your high GHQ guy is who he 
might not be after we ripped up the 
first list haha or we kind of merge the 
list let's say yeah and then what 
happened the next day and how was that 
the next day 
um I think I was like so I if you 
haven't already heard or if it's not 
obvious yet I love food I was excited 
about the Four Seasons lunch and 
um one of the main things I was excited 
about being in Chicago for was just like 
the great restaurants so totally I had 
my list of restaurants that I was 
excited to go to and I don't even 
remember if I made reservations but I 
probably did make recipes that's what we 
do I took them yeah 
um but I had never eaten dinner alone at 
a restaurant and 
um I was like I told you and Lindsay 
about that and you were like oh my gosh 
yeah like ghosted at the bar and I was 
like yeah my goal is to just like make 
conversation with the person sitting 
next to me no matter who they are and I 
went to Girl On The Go and I did that 
so and it was a male who I like I guess 
another thing I left out is that like 
I've always been intimidated by guys 
um like I have a ton of girlfriends but 
I don't have a lot of male friends 
um just because I've found it much 
easier to build a connection with 
females than with males 
um but I was able to strike up a 
conversation with this random 
like young man sitting next to me 
um so I just felt felt good about 
getting out of my comfort zone and doing 
that and I was inspired by both of you 
to do that so did you hear that on day 
one okay 
knows who are high GHQ guy is and can 
flirt while sitting at a bar right I 
mean that's amazing high five through 
the Audio Waves to you so that's amazing 
so now you've had two amazing meals 
you've flirted your way around the bar 
at the girl in The Goat no so the next 
day you show up at our photo studio in 
the West Loop yep yep 
and I remember being a little bit 
skeptical I guess of the photo shoot and 
like how are we gonna make sure that 
these photos don't look like you know 
obviously cheesy clown photographer and 
like you know yeah I didn't want them to 
come off as you know making it obvious 
that I I used a professional to get my 
dating profile photos 
um but I was very prevalently surprised 
by the experience 
um the makeup team did an amazing job I 
like have hated getting my makeup done I 
hate like I never wear makeup or I would 
put on some makeup for a first date but 
I rarely wear makeup um in my day to day 
and I generally hate the way I look when 
I get my makeup done by someone else but 
the makeup team it looked amazing 
um and yeah I just loved how we went to 
like a variety of different spots 
um so it wasn't all just like in one 
place 
um I changed outfits several times so we 
were able to get like a casual look and 
like a more Glam look 
um and then also what I thought was 
probably important which I had been 
missing was like full body shots so that 
people could see 
you know didn't feel like you're holding 
something back so your post Weight 
Watchers bod 
[Laughter] 
so yeah the photo shoot was great 
um and yeah the pictures looked amazing 
like I was shocked at how good they left 
to the point where my sister says that I 
catfished my current husband with my 
phone 
oh my God and he would totally disagree 
with that yeah yeah he would probably 
disagree he would totally disagree 
you're just as beautiful and I'll put a 
page on the you know you guys can check 
out the page on our website to see how 
beautiful Anushka really is both during 
this podcast as well as in her photo 
shoot and at her wedding so she's being 
very humble 
um and so and so what happens now you're 
back on the East Coast yeah and you 
start dating yeah so I was like very 
energized coming out of our meeting in 
Chicago and what I loved was that you 
and Lindsay just gave me a formula to 
follow 
and it was like get on the apps you know 
you help me with my profile you gave me 
the photos 
um so my profile was done I started 
getting back on the apps that I was 
previously on like I think Bumble was 
the main one 
um and maybe hinge but I can't like 
Bumble was where I had the most success 
um but yeah she made it super formulaic 
of like spend 30 minutes a day on the 
app like yep that could be swiping that 
could be responding to messages 
um but whatever it is don't spend more 
or less than that 
um they gave me a formula of like 
how many dates to have per week like 
what my pipeline should look like I was 
like this is great like I can you know I 
can build a pipeline and like you know 
and filter people through it 
um so it was really helpful to just like 
think about it 
in term like in similar ways to how I 
think about like work where it's like oh 
there's data involved and there is 
um a process and you know a formula to 
how to be successful so I found that 
super helpful 
um and immediately like I started 
getting 
dates 
it was shocking I was like wow I've been 
on more dates in like a month than I was 
had been on in three years that is 
amazing oh my gosh say that again for 
the people in the back 
like the dates 
flying in like it was way more than I'd 
ever seen in terms of activity on on the 
apps that I'd been on for three years 
and just for the record sometimes people 
you know over Photoshop and Glam up and 
filter their photos we have a zero 
Photoshop policy right now one thing 
sometimes people are like wow can you 
just shave down my stomach a little bit 
or get rid of it come of those wrinkles 
under my eyes no people want to date the 
person in the picture so regardless of 
the ribbing that your sister gives you 
you look exactly like your photos and 
are like the goal is when people meet 
you they're like okay God you look just 
like your photos if not a little bit 
better right so it's never like oh I've 
been catfished right it's like here I am 
and I'm the best version of myself and 
you're gonna show up as that version to 
the date yeah 
yes so I did put makeup on so 
they're like wow you look just like your 
photos so so what started happening with 
the date so you're getting a lot of 
dates some good some bad The Good the 
Bad the Ugly how was it all of the above 
yeah there were some pretty decent dates 
there were some really really terrible 
dates 
um where like yeah I was immediately 
able to identify red flags probably only 
a handful of times like there weren't 
that many people that I encountered that 
threw up red flags but yeah I remember 
one guy I went to meet him for a drink 
and he asked we started talking about 
um or I think he just talked about 
himself the whole time he didn't ask me 
a single question and like the questions 
that he did he did finally asked me a 
question it was something about like oh 
where is your family from and I said oh 
we're from Sri Lanka and he was like oh 
do they have like indoor plumbing there 
do they have indoor plumbing yeah 
basically it was like oh it's like do 
you have a flushable toilet in Sri Lanka 
and I was just like oh my God I this 
person is just so offensive 
and he just kept asking more questions 
that were more and more offensive so 
that was definitely the worst date I 
went on but 
um 
it was ridiculous 45 minutes of my life 
before he asked me if I wanted a second 
drink and I was like no that's okay bye 
no I'm good I'm good I need to go work 
on flushing my toilet yeah yeah that was 
absolutely terrible but yeah other than 
that I think I had some like decent 
dates there was definitely people I went 
on like several dates with 
um but yeah it wasn't really finding 
many people that I was like oh like you 
know this person makes me feel like that 
list of things that I was like my new 
list of your new most characteristics I 
was looking for and it was kind of 
mutual I don't I mean maybe there were a 
couple guys that were like oh shocked 
that I didn't want to keep seeing them 
but for the most important part I think 
most of the people that I didn't 
continue dating were 
you know it was a mutual decision 
um 
I didn't mention it before but I 
actually 
um before I met you and Lindsay and 
after I continued to ask my parents to 
set me up 
um as like another potential Avenue to 
meet people and I don't know why I kept 
doing it because 
they just like the number of people that 
my parents set me up with it was 
probably like three guys 
um total but like every single one of 
them was just like a complete flop I 
don't know why I didn't learn after the 
first two times that's the third time it 
could be like a week you have a pulse 
and he has a pulse he's single you're 
single oh yeah he lives in Saskatchewan 
no yeah literally literally literally 
um like all the guys none of the guys 
lived in the US so you know I have 
family in London so I would go to visit 
my family in London and my parents 
wouldn't set me up on a date with 
someone who lived there and I was like I 
have a career in the U.S like why are 
you trying to move me to England 
um so yeah so you know along with the 
dating apps was also trying to get my 
parents to continue to set me up with 
people and they would always try to find 
me like a doctor who like comes from a 
good family and you know like typical 
kind of South Asian parent things that 
they're looking for 
um but a few months into working with 
you I remember I was telling Lindsay 
that like my parents had found another 
potential person for me 
um and he was a doctor and came from the 
family but he lived in Canada 
so I remember like talking to Lindsay 
and she was like no like there's no harm 
like just you know 
talk to him and see like how it goes so 
I had a few phone conversations with him 
and they seemed pretty good like I was 
like oh like he's easy to talk to uh 
like I you know there wasn't any red 
flags 
um and 
at a certain point he asked uh if I 
would be interested in meeting up I 
think Lindsay said like don't make a 
trip to him like you don't want to put 
yourself out there 
um on that level like that's a big 
commitment but he offered to come to me 
um and Lindsay's advice was like yeah 
that's great just like don't commit to 
more than just dinner and I was like 
okay yeah great like I don't feel like 
you know having to babysit this person 
over a weekend in Boston yeah this 
person who I've never met 
um looking back on it there was 
definitely a couple like potential red 
flags before he got to Boston but one of 
them was like the second time I talked 
to him he wouldn't stop complaining 
about his parents oh and I was like 
that's kind of weird like you haven't 
met me you don't really know me like why 
are you complaining about your parents 
he also like trash talked a person that 
we a mutual friend and I was like you 
know that that person's my friend so why 
are you speaking badly about her 
so there was a couple red flags I did 
talk to my mom about them and she was 
like oh no that's fine that's not a 
weird thing to do she was like you would 
do that and I was like no I wouldn't do 
that to someone I just met and pause on 
this part guys everybody fancies 
themselves being a dating expert and 
giving you good advice no that's not a 
red flag that's not a red flag we have 
Anushka as you know we have a plan we 
have lists of red flags okay by phases 
of dating and somebody who's talking 
negatively of other people or mean to 
others but not mean to you these are all 
instant screen people out red flags 
right if this person right because a lot 
of negativity on the outside is like 
negativity on the inside if I'm gonna 
Trash Talk someone it's because I'm 
trash talking myself a lot and that is 
nothing you can fix and Lord knows we 
don't need any fixer-uppers in our 
dating funnels exactly 
sorry Mama yeah she was wrong 
but yeah so anyway he decided he we set 
a date and he came to Boston and I had 
planned a restaurant for us to go to for 
dinner 
um and I remember meeting him there and 
that negativity Trend just continued 
throughout the night to the point where 
like we sat down for dinner and he was 
like oh it's really loud in here should 
we just go somewhere else and I was like 
well I picked this restaurant on purpose 
because I liked the food at the 
atmosphere 
so no we're not leaving 
um and I just I can't remember all the 
details but all I remember was just like 
it was like negative common after 
negative common after negative comment 
and I was like I just don't need this 
level of negativity in my life no and 
you can hear it right away and so often 
when we're dating and we've got that 
time clock and that oh my God I need to 
meet someone right away we just settle 
for these things right but now you were 
a smart dater and you knew okay red 
flags only become brighter red yeah 
right and so now he's like a blaring red 
flag and so we leave the date so we 
leave the date and just to be nice I was 
like okay he's hasn't been to Boston 
before he's flown all the way from 
Canada I was like okay there's the 
walking tour of Boston tomorrow morning 
would you want to meet up for that and 
he was like okay yeah that sounds good 
so I texted him the details of 
where to meet and when and I was like 
you'll have plenty of time before your 
flight leaves on Sunday night like to 
catch to get to the airport and catch 
your flight 
um and it was probably like 15 degrees 
that day 
um on that Sunday where we're waiting 
for doing this walking tour it was 
freezing but he was from Canada so I was 
like he should be able to handle walking 
around in the cold you're from Canada 
um but of course he was complaining 
about the cold the whole time 
and he also I think people find this 
money like my mom loves when I tell this 
story because she just thinks the story 
is hilarious brune also loves this story 
he's heard it about 15 times 
um but he came to the walking tour on 
the cobblestone streets of Boston with 
his rolly suitcase 
and I was like why did you bring your 
rolling suitcase on a walking tour you 
were staying in a hotel you could have 
left it with the doorman and I already 
told you you had plenty of time before 
your flight 
um so he was like oh yeah I guess that's 
a good point like I could have done that 
um 
like when I lived in Boston I never even 
rolled my rolling suitcase when I was 
going to the airport because it was just 
so loud I would just carry it everywhere 
so rolling suitcase dude is now walking 
throughout Boston and you're counting 
the minutes before I'm counting the 
women's suitcase tour is over yes I'm 
just like dying for this toward end 
um and it finally does and I'm like okay 
like I need to go home 
um it's Sunday I need to prepare for the 
week ahead 
and he's like oh okay I still have a few 
hours before my flight I was like okay 
I'll drop you at a coffee shop 
um and with some like resistance we walk 
into three different coffee shops 
because he was like oh there there isn't 
a seat and he was like complaining about 
you know the lack of seats in the coffee 
shop so I finally get to a coffee shop 
where there's one seat available and 
he's like oh but but what about you 
there's only one seat and I'm like oh no 
don't worry I'm gonna go home uh bye so 
I remember like walking home from that 
date and at this point I think it was 
like four o'clock or something and I had 
another first date scheduled for that 
night at seven o'clock and I was like 
I can't go on this this next date like I 
this whole last two days have just been 
exhausting you've been in like 
negativities too yeah 
um it's freezing and I was about to text 
this person to try to reschedule but I 
was like no you know what just like suck 
it up and do it let's go 
and so that night is when I met Varun 
yay hey see everyone even off the heels 
of wacko rolly suitcase negative guy you 
dusted off 
and you did it and you went on the date 
now you guys had met on the app now back 
us up a little bit yep so we had met on 
the app probably like a few days before 
the first date 
um what I liked about Varun was that he 
was 
positive 
from the interactions we've had on the 
app in our messages and and we chatted a 
little bit back and forth but he was 
pretty quick to ask me on a first date 
um I didn't follow the part of the 
process where I did the phone call 
that's okay rule Breakers fine 
but um I agreed to meet him for a drink 
so 
um yeah the plan was to meet up I didn't 
know too much about him other than like 
I think he mentioned that like he had 
been out with his family in New York and 
um he had been out to some good 
restaurants and things like that he had 
also mentioned the other thing that 
stood out to me was like he had asked me 
like if I liked my job 
um on the app and he said like I love my 
job and what I'm learning is that like 
most people don't actually like their 
jobs and I was like oh wow that is 
actually pretty refreshing to have 
someone who like actually loves what 
they do because I don't know that I can 
say that I like genuinely love what I do 
like I don't hate it but it's not 
something I'm like excited to go to work 
to do every day so 
um I think I just was surprised and 
refreshed I found it refreshing that he 
was just positive 
um so yeah so I was like excited to meet 
him but not like you know oh this is the 
one like from the interactions we'd had 
on the apps right especially coming off 
of bad dates sometimes we can have those 
gray dark lenses on like oh here we go 
again you know here comes Mr positivity 
loves his job like great so you go meet 
him for a drink and 
um and I think I immediately felt like 
pretty comfortable he was very Charming 
which I was a little worried was the red 
flag 
where I was like oh is he like too 
smooth like he turns this on for like 
every girl 
um where he just like always had the 
right thing to say 
um 
yeah and so I was a little bit worried 
from from the first date that like maybe 
he's just like a player who you know 
dates a lot of girls and doesn't get 
serious but 
um the conversation was really easy 
um he asked a lot of questions which I 
thought was really nice 
and 
um yeah I just like felt good and 
comfortable being around him 
and 
given it was Sunday night he did ask if 
I wanted to have another drink and I was 
like I want to see him like I think I 
made it clear like yeah it would be 
great to see you again but I need to go 
home because at this point it had been 
too many hours of dating for one weekend 
um totally 
and he asked me before we left 
um if I'd like to see him again and we 
had both talked about how we like Ramen 
um and so he suggested that we meet up 
for ramen at this place in Cambridge 
close to where I work and close to where 
he lived 
um to 
um yeah to meet up for a second date on 
Friday but he said there's no pressure 
to let me know now like even think about 
it and let me know 
um if you're up for it again so charming 
and and now we know just from a good 
place not a player like that's just it's 
like a good person who's courteous yeah 
exactly 
um and so yeah so then I was excited I 
think a little bit but not like so 
excited leaving where I was like oh okay 
that was like much I'm glad I went on 
this date like that was better than I 
than the average date that I've been on 
but not like the best date I've ever 
been on 
um 
but then he followed up the next day 
um so like I really liked how he was 
really proactive and I think he asked me 
a question because I had said how I go 
to Soul cycle on Tuesday or on like 
Tuesday mornings or something and he was 
like oh like how was like did you go to 
Soul cycle this morning and I was like 
oh no you know Tuesday is my soul cycle 
day and today's Monday so no I just went 
to the gym so I remember being like on 
the treadmill and getting this text from 
him 
um and I think pretty quickly after that 
I told him yeah like I'd love to meet up 
on Friday 
um but this was February 14th like the 
first date was February 9th and the 
second date was scheduled for Friday 
February 14th which you only now realize 
after you say yes to meeting up on 
Friday like this is dun 
dun's day 
and I think I realized it but I was like 
oh my God does he realize it should I 
tell him it's Valentine's Day and be 
like we can reschedule if you want like 
is he gonna think this is too big of a 
commitment is it going to be awkward for 
us to be on a second date with all these 
people that are gonna help from 
Valentine's Day so obviously I was like 
overthinking 
the whole thing but ended up just not 
saying anything about it and just not 
addressing it and you know we plan to 
meet up on Friday and we did 
um and I asked him on the date I was 
like did you know that today is 
Valentine's Day and he was like yeah but 
like he was like some of my friends 
asked me if I was going to bring you 
flowers but I thought that would be 
overkill for a second date so I was like 
yeah I'm glad you did it like this let's 
just have wrong let's just treat it like 
a normal day and not acknowledge the 
Valentine's day part of it 
um so yeah the second date was really 
good I remember like 
um just having a really good time and 
was able to like be more myself I think 
and like open up a little bit more than 
I had on the first date where I was like 
pretty tired and kind of over it 
um so yeah from the second date I think 
is when I started to realize maybe this 
could be someone that 
could be a longer term relationship 
now let's put this into perspective this 
is February 14 2020. yeah okay 
just before the world's about to end a 
month later 
right so now you're on two dates not 
knowing that we are walking into a 
freaking pandemic right no it's still 
normal we're hearing little bits and 
blips of what's going on in China and I 
don't even know if Seattle or New York 
had opened up by that point maybe the 
very first glimpses so so now what 
happens you start you're you've still 
got your funnel going yes I still have 
my funnel going I'm still messaging new 
people setting up new first dates but I 
think 
we had a pretty good Cadence of like 
meeting up every few days every week 
once a week probably 
um and 
yeah I think all those subsequent dates 
were just like more and more natural 
like I started to feel better and better 
about it with each time I met him 
um but I was still following the process 
and not trying to like be exclusive too 
early 
um and 
I remember there was like one Converse 
like we had gone on a date my camera it 
was like a lunch date or something and 
he had told me 
um you know I'm not seeing any other 
people 
um 
and kind of just put that out there I 
don't know if he asks me like 
specifically to be exclusive but he kind 
of put it out there and I was like oh 
shoot 
he's just told me this like now I need 
to tell him that I still am dating other 
people and like in fact I think I had a 
date the next day or that night I don't 
even remember 
um a first date 
and I felt really guilty having to tell 
him that but I felt like I needed to be 
honest yeah I like saw it going further 
um so later on he told he was pretty 
cool about it like I think he was just 
like okay yeah like I think he might 
have said like take your time or 
something like that but he he wasn't 
like 
you know 
like live it or you know didn't have 
that crazy reaction that's a very 
important point right because sometimes 
we wonder is this person too Charming 
are they too grandios blah blah blah you 
date him slow you've been on several 
dates he says I'm not dating anybody you 
say well 
I am now that is an excellent litmus 
test at that point if somebody is going 
to be a bad partner for you potentially 
they're going to wig out freak out go 
crazy if they potentially are going to 
be a good partner for you they can take 
an answer that maybe they weren't 
expecting or they don't like and still 
be like all right that's cool I'll be 
patient you take your time right because 
when a man wants to be with you he'll 
move mountains to be with you and he'll 
be as patient as you need him to so if 
somebody says to you well I'm not dating 
anybody else and when you say well you 
know I'm a smart dater I'm keeping my 
funnel active and he's like oh my God 
right and we've had situations blow up 
with people before where the other 
person gets crazy that is a red flag 
right there how do people react Under 
Pressure how do people react when 
something doesn't go their way super 
crucial bit of information so you you 
know we like all these little litmus 
tests as we're helping our clients date 
well how does he react if he has a good 
reaction he stays in in the funnel and 
if he has a bad reaction bye so Varun 
clearly was making Leaps and Bounds in 
these Smart dating uh lexicon yeah I 
mean he was 
from the first time I met him I was like 
he is much more emotionally aware than I 
am we loved him from day water yeah just 
like a better person in general 
um and better at maintaining 
relationships like whether it be with 
his family or his friends or 
um probably with me 
um but yeah so I remember going on 
another first date and it was just like 
a little bit painful 
um the guy there was nothing wrong with 
the guy but I was just like oh this is 
just like not I'm not having fun I don't 
feel the same way as I do when I'm 
hanging out with Varun 
um and I think a few days later after we 
had that conversation after I went on 
the the other first date with another 
guy I was like okay 
um he told he tells me now I don't 
remember this but I apparently asked him 
to be exclusive 
hahaha 
you're like okay I'm jumping out like 
let's do this right and this is under 
the careful watch of both Lindsay and me 
right we're not letting anybody go Rogue 
yeah into a red flag situation but he 
presented so beautifully literally from 
day one you're right incredibly kind 
warm emotionally intelligent able to 
navigate conflicts and misunderstandings 
yeah really well 
and so yeah and so then like a few days 
later probably the pandemic hit and I 
think that was a point where like it 
could have been terrible for our 
relationship 
um or it could have been great and 
luckily for us I think it was like 
really just something that like 
accelerated everything 
for us because pretty quickly you know 
we weren't able to see anybody else we 
really just saw each other 
um and ended up spending a lot more time 
together than we would have been able to 
um in a pre-pandemic environment 
and did that bring you closer together 
oh yeah definitely I mean I think we got 
like very close 
very quickly 
um and actually like enjoyed spending 
time together and spending all that time 
together didn't like push us apart or 
make us realize like there were 
qualities that we didn't like in each 
other 
um and so yeah I think I I'm thankful at 
this point for the pandemic because it 
actually 
helped us to get closer together 
um and progress our relationship much 
faster than we would have if we weren't 
in that environment yeah and what do you 
like best about him 
um there's a lot of things but probably 
just like 
how 
good he is at dealing with conflict and 
like managing relationships wow 
he's always the person that I go to if I 
have a conflict with my mom or my sister 
or a friend 
um he always has like the best advice on 
how to 
deal with people and I think that 
translates to how he handles me 
um where like I can be a little bit 
crazy and inflexible 
um and he's able to be like the flexible 
one in our relationship and and is able 
to kind of mouth and and change 
small things to help me 
um 
and make me feel good so probably that 
and just like how loving and supportive 
he is like 
he is really a partner and like knows 
how important my career is to me knows 
how important my family is to me and as 
always just there to help support and 
make that 
um a priority for for both of us 
and I know we would often go back in and 
look at your marriage map contract and 
that list of people that make you happy 
and tick and tie and I would venture a 
guess he's now if we redid that exercise 
he would be the number one person on 
your happy list yeah with the same 
qualities and that's our Holy Grail 
right and so right you we knew uh you 
you hit the jackpot and so what happened 
now your relationship's expedited 
we know the spoiler alert we know the 
yes the relationship was pretty 
expedited I remember meeting his parents 
for the first time he met my parents for 
the first time and then I think my 
parents were very excited 
um because 
our dog hates strangers and she didn't 
bark when he walked into the door of the 
house he came in with presents for 
everybody including the dog 
um 
and amazing 
um they were very excited and soon after 
that they were like oh he needs to meet 
all of our friends and I was like can we 
just like slow it down a little bit of 
course not or South Asian yeah he was a 
good sport about that too because he 
loves meeting new people so I didn't 
have a problem with having to meet all 
of my parents close friends 
um and then yeah we got their blessing 
the parents blessing to move in together 
um and then so that was in September of 
2020 so yeah that was pretty fast 
um and then we ended up getting engaged 
in March of 2021 so like basically a 
year after later after we met 
um and then yeah we just got married in 
June and so yeah it's been six months I 
guess 
a little bit more than six months of 
marriage and now you have a dog yes and 
now we have a dog who is very cute 
um he's getting a little more 
rambunctious but he's he's very cute and 
we love him so 
absolutely 
if you look back to early 2020 right 
three years ago what would you you know 
would you have ever thought you'd be 
here 
no never like I was convinced like that 
I was never gonna find someone never did 
I ever think that I could meet someone 
and find like not only meet someone but 
like meet the person that I was gonna 
spend the rest of my life with 
um 
and yeah I like looking back on it now 
I'm still kind of shocked that I'm here 
three years later yeah wow I'm so happy 
for you you deserve all of it thank you 
I mean it's really thanks to you and 
thanks to Lindsay because as I said like 
I was 
failing at the dating game before I met 
you guys and yeah I mean my friends even 
say it like how 
my mindset was just like completely 
wrong and you guys helped me to see that 
that's mindset is really really 
important and I know that's something we 
focused on call after call like how do 
we look at this how do we look at dating 
how do we look at the relationship right 
how do we navigate the relationship and 
mindset and life is everything and I 
think you grew so much during our 
process and we could both feel it and 
see it yeah and now I'm like wanting you 
know to tell all my friends so like you 
can do this like I did it there's like a 
formula for it like call Bella and 
Lindsay because they can help you 
oh I'm so so glad I'm so glad that you 
found the perfect lid to your pot and 
you guys can look on our website and see 
how cute these two are because it's kind 
of ridiculous 
um how adorably lovely they are and 
again I couldn't be happier for you 
um do you have any parting advice you 
would give people that are on the fence 
or just kind of thing thinking it can't 
happen for them 
I guess parting advice would be like if 
you haven't had success you're probably 
doing it wrong so call Mel and Lindsay 
because they will help you 
um but no really I think like for people 
like me who have this like long list of 
qualities that they're looking for 
um 
most of those are not actually important 
um and so really identifying what Bella 
calls the happy list of people that make 
you feel good to be around and what what 
are the qualities that those people have 
I think was like the biggest thing that 
helped me change my mindset in terms of 
what I was looking for 
um like weepy here teary Goosebumps so 
thank you so so much for 
telling us Your Love Story it's 
um and thank you for keeping your 
promise way back when in the dating 
world tell it bye again okay you can 
share my 
share money of our clients are on the 
down low right and we can tell certain 
stories so thank you for keeping good on 
your promise I wouldn't expect anything 
otherwise so whether you are you know an 
Ivy League grad or you're driving in 
your car on the way to the gym and you 
haven't gone to school it doesn't matter 
just remember love exists for you it's a 
when it's not an if start to do things 
differently like Anushka said there is 
no reason to sit around and stew in your 
juice if you aren't getting the progress 
you want it's like look at anything in 
your life if you're not in the right 
shape if you're not making progress at 
work you would change things up think 
about just for me your gift to me today 
is think about one thing you can change 
to make your dating life better this 
week and let us know what that is so 
smart daters until next week 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart daters welcome back to this week's 
episode I hope you've had an amazing 
week and as always you know me I'm super 
excited jumping out of my skin about 
this conversation I'm going to share 
with you with someone that I met 
professionally through a friend that has 
now also become a friend his name is 
Larry Kaufman and he's on here to talk 
about just his whole ethos his way of 
being his way of showing up in the world 
and he wrote a book about how he is and 
what he does that's made him so 
successful and authentic and it's called 
the NCG Factor okay it's called a 
formula for building life-changing 
relationships from college to dating to 
relationships to retirement so I added a 
little bit to your title Larry so I want 
to bring you on so thank you for being 
with us today we're so excited to have 
you 
I am excited to be here Bella thank you 
so much 
so Larry is a senior executive he's 
super smart he was introduced to me by 
my friend Megan and to say that Larry 
leaves you with this conversation I 
didn't know when he and I would connect 
my friend Megan just said he's a great 
connector I think you'll enjoy your 
conversation and I thought okay well I 
love connecting with people and I left 
the conversation going wow what a 
thorough and authentic gentleman who 
asked me what can I do to help you Bella 
and normally I'm the helper I'm The 
Giver look what I do for work so to have 
somebody ask me that was so rare and so 
memorable and since that time Larry 
wrote this book so Larry tell us your 
book is a bestseller on Amazon you have 
you have a story as to how you became 
the NCG Master tell me what inspired you 
to do this and what inspired you to 
write the book so just basically tell us 
your story 
so my story is I wasn't always this 
giving 
connected person and and helping others 
and so if you you said that title I know 
you worked at the dating component 
I always do that I appreciate that and 
there is a a part of it too and so I 
started out thinking 
I'd write something to help kids in 
college because when I go back to my 
college days 
I wasn't a giving guy I was a guy that 
liked to party and have fun I wasn't 
helping others I couldn't tutor anybody 
it would be tutoring them on things that 
wouldn't help them in life so I thought 
if I can go back in time we always talk 
about that we'd go back to our younger 
self well what would we do what could we 
do so I wrote this book thinking I could 
help other kids 
enter college and that'd be for you it 
could be for others that are mid-career 
later in life all the way to retirement 
and so the the inspiration was 
wanting to kind of take what I learned 
and share with others and then it seemed 
to spread Beyond you know college and 
then I was thinking I'll write it and I 
kept saying I was going to write it you 
know we procrastinate we say we're gonna 
do something we don't do it my wife got 
sick of hearing me say that all the time 
and I was I was investing in these 
startups that have gone absolutely 
nowhere and my wife one day said stop 
sinking money into these startups that 
go nowhere and she said we should invest 
in you and I thought that was really 
nice I said write that goddamn book 
absolutely 
I'm just telling a Verbatim this what 
she said I love that and I love your 
wife already and we're going to come 
back to how you met your wife but tell 
us in simple terms what is the NCG 
Factor 
so as you alluded to it's this formula 
for building these life-changing 
relationships so what I'd like to talk 
about is how to be a giver how to be a 
connector and help other people and I 
kind of redefine networking so a lot of 
us show up to events and one-to-one 
meetings and it's it's not it's not 
really as meaningful as it could and 
should be it's kind of going through the 
motions and you know you go to an event 
that you're passing out cards and 
collecting them and you know and then 
tossing a bunch out I don't like that 
but love Bella but hate that person hate 
that person so I redefined how we 
Network 
you know kind of more authentically and 
how we become givers because a lot of 
people work really hard putting a lot of 
hours and I find so many that are not 
philanthropic they're not giving to a 
charity or of their time their expertise 
it's not all about money and and then 
also about becoming a connector which 
not everyone thinks about that so I 
wanted to help people understand the 
power behind being that connector that 
giver and networking in a very different 
way 
so how can we be better connectors right 
life we know that our happiness as human 
beings as evidenced by the Harvard Grant 
study and so many other research studies 
is our happiness as human beings comes 
down to our relationships and the 
quality and the depth of our 
relationships how do we become better 
connectors 
well thanks for asking and you are the 
expert on relationships 
but I think you know given where we're 
at and going through a pandemic 
I think it's it's been a different type 
of world today that we are more 
compassionate 
and being that we're in a different 
world and we're more compassionate we 
have more time because we're we're 
virtual more so than we ever have been 
and we have more time in our calendars 
to become a better connector you have to 
become a better listener 
that ties to relationships 
and a lot of people don't like to ask 
questions they like to as I put in my 
book if you remember reading this people 
like to show up and throw up 
and actually a neighbor who's divorced 
went on a date and said you know good 
looking gentlemen 
very nice 
and we spent hours together where he 
talked all about himself 
and it could have been a connection a 
great connection 
didn't ask anything about her 
and this happens in business and it 
happens in our personal relationships 
too it happens in dating every day to my 
clients and to your point women complain 
all the time their number one complaint 
about men is he didn't ask me one 
question about myself 
and this isn't just you know Titans of 
industry or people you might say well 
that person's maybe more c-suite 
narcissistic self-absorbed this runs the 
gamut and women it's their number one 
complaint so when we coach men it's like 
my tidbit I love show up and throw up 
it's if you've heard your own voice for 
more than five minutes it's time to give 
the other person a turn 
really is and you know and you ask how 
do you become a better connector well 
it's it's asking really good questions 
and learning about the other person and 
even in business I'm learning about 
people personally and professionally we 
caught up before our podcast today 
talking about our families and when you 
learn something about someone's family 
something that's happening in their 
world something that impacted them from 
the pandemic what have you the more that 
you learn the more that you can find a 
way to be a connector and that's how 
I've become a connector professionally 
and I've helped people in their personal 
lives too with many different things 
so it's asking good questions but it's 
it's listening and this transcends into 
business and personal I teach my teams 
this that 
you gotta learn about people it's people 
are so eager in business to just talk 
all about what they do I I had a call 
with an executive a CEO in New Jersey it 
was virtual and we had a great 
conversation and he was upset that I 
asked so much about him 
he said we have to have a second 
conversation again because you were 
asking all about me I and normally the 
tables are turned where I'm inquiring 
about the other person but today you 
threw me off guard where you're asking 
about all about me and learning all 
about me 
and we have to have another conversation 
I want to learn about you 
wow and how did he feel about that well 
I think he he felt good it was nice that 
he was able to share and he he's really 
you know been through a lot in his world 
and we got very personal 
and he shared a lot with me and he said 
he shared some personal things with me 
in the first meeting in the second 
meeting and he just said because of the 
way that 
I got to know him and it put him at ease 
and he shared things that he rarely ever 
shares with anybody and I barely know 
him but I I'd like to get to know people 
and that's how you Foster and build 
relationships in your personal life 
in your marriage when you're dating and 
from a business standpoint 
and you walk in Larry to every 
interaction with that I want to listen 
and I want to get to know this person 
right and that guides you and how this 
might be a strange question I I kind of 
think it's kind of like people everybody 
thinks they're a good driver everybody 
thinks they're a good listener is there 
like how do you know that you're 
actually a good listener and that you're 
listening to a person in the way they 
want to be heard 
I think you're a good listener 
and and I tell this to folks in in on my 
team people on sales too 
if you ask good questions and you hear 
about it and then you feedback how you 
can help them with things that they 
shared with your with you you're a good 
listener right because you're you're not 
just saying here's what we do you're 
saying Bella based upon what you said in 
your business and how you help people 
you know build relationships this is how 
we can help you I know I'm a good 
listener because I've heard something 
and you said your daughter's at this 
University doing this and hey I could be 
helpful if she'd like to do that 
well you're you're going to be attentive 
because I I fed back something you 
shared with me so I know I'm a good 
listener because I take copious notes 
when I talk to people 
but I'm listening and I'm I'm feeding it 
back to them what they shared with me 
and people are more likely to listen to 
you on a date or in business if you take 
what they shared with you and share it 
back 
in some some manner whether it's a story 
or just something you heard or oh when 
you said that I did this years ago or I 
could help you with that 
I love that because it's not just you 
and I don't even know if you were aware 
that you did this but you you listen 
with the intention to give 
so not only are you hearing people 
but you're hearing for an intention of 
how can I be of service to you 
right and how lovely is that and how 
many of us do not walk into interactions 
with that right we're so tired of being 
taken from and being wrung out by people 
that we walk into this we walk into 
interactions with our guard up 
well we do I think if if we walk into a 
meeting with someone 
and we're expecting something in return 
we want business something out of it 
that's the wrong way to approach it and 
and yes I know like I have a team that 
needs to bring in business or I'm out of 
a job but 
but I think if we think about the other 
person first 
and get to know them we build a deeper 
relationship and it will come and it's 
amazing when I take the approach to 
learn about people and I hit them 
personally and and I'm real about that I 
want to 
and also they're like well Larry tell me 
again what you do you know what we have 
a need for what you do but if uh you 
know and I this is my quote and I share 
this in the speaking engagements I have 
if you lead with yourself 
you will leave with yourself 
oh my God I know you're writing it down 
I saw that I saw that on your business 
dating post that I loved a few weeks ago 
right if you lead with yourself you will 
leave with yourself I mean from a dating 
perspective from a business perspective 
how brilliant is that and it's so true 
when you go in and you listen with 
empathy you listen to really understand 
this person where they're coming from 
the road that they've walked and you 
listen with the purpose of helping them 
that's fantastic and now how we can see 
how this could work in the professional 
world right you meet someone from 
networking purposes okay you and I meet 
okay Larry how can I help you and you 
might think okay Bella you know I've 
looked through your LinkedIn Network and 
maybe you could connect me with these 
five people right now on a date is this 
a mindset that that we could come in 
with and how have you seen this play out 
I know you've got some great stories 
even in the dating world 
well I think it's you can use it on a 
date right and you can use it to get a 
date 
right so I'm so I am a connector 
professionally and personally 
now I can't speak to being out of date 
because I'm married so that we have to 
go back in time but on a date 
whether maybe it's going south you know 
you could still Foster relationship 
people are interesting you never know 
you may go on a date and it's not a love 
connection but that becomes a great 
relationship or friend and so take that 
opportunity to ask good questions and 
learn you never know that person you 
want to date with is like you know what 
I know this isn't a love connection but 
my roommate is based on what you told me 
today you know I think maybe a good fit 
for my roommate but if you're if you're 
leading with yourself you're leaving 
with yourself you're not having that 
opportunity and you know for myself I 
like asking really good questions about 
people 
personally and professionally because I 
may learn that they're divorced recently 
or you know three years they have been 
on a date and so 
I'm asking questions and you would think 
like I'm going to lean towards the 
business side but I'm going towards the 
personal side tell me more if you 
haven't been on a date in three years 
you have no significant other how are 
you doing how is it post pandemic to 
date oh it's brutal 
I just listened to Bella's podcast so I 
got some good tips 
it's not so brutal you guys Peak dating 
Seasons coming up it is it's but you 
know what you gotta use all types of you 
know methods and relationships to help 
you so I like learning about people 
professionally and personally because I 
like connecting them 
you know to things that they may need in 
the professional world but I may make 
some connections in their personal world 
the better I get to know them I love 
that now 
a scenario keeps popping into my mind so 
I'm gonna I'm gonna ask your opinion on 
this as the NCG Guru as well as 
a man if a woman is on a date with the 
man who seems like maybe he's not but in 
this conversation he seems like he's a 
taker because she's asking the questions 
and he is probably nervous and he's just 
trying to impress her so he's talk talk 
talk Talking how does she 
respectfully get him 
to ask her some questions and so I'll 
tell my clients just say oh my goodness 
that's so interesting Larry that reminds 
me of a time where I blah blah blah and 
sometimes they'll say I did that and 
then he brought it right back to himself 
again so is there a way to put these 
conversations back on track or what's 
your experience around this 
so I'll tell you and it's it is 
interesting and some people are 
takers have to be open that that maybe 
they're not truly takers like you said 
me if they're nervous or someone has to 
show them the pathway I will tell you 
I've had some direct conversations some 
people are takers and you're not going 
to convert them 
and so it's it's kind of that red flag 
and so at times I've I've said you know 
Bella 
you're really interesting I've learned 
to help a lot today thanks for all that 
sharing 
I 
but I I was curious you you don't seem 
to know a lot about me 
and I was wondering if you'd like to 
know more about me 
and you know because 
it's it's a way of bringing it back now 
at that point if you go oh no Larry 
we're all good 
I'm glad you learned a lot about me 
because I'm much more interesting than 
you you know we're good 
I think it's a good test to see do they 
bring it oh my God I'm so sorry I'm so 
nervous 
and maybe that will turn things around 
or you're gonna find out 
this is probably a bad connection this 
person just is about themselves big ego 
you know just not not probably the right 
match and so I think in business and in 
your personal life 
there's nothing wrong with kind of 
calling them out in a nice way hey some 
great stuff I learned about you today I 
was curious would you like to know 
anything about me because I think I'm 
pretty interesting too you could kind of 
make it like a joke right you can make 
it a little light-hearted yeah I really 
love how you've framed that and it's 
positive it's not antagonistic it 
doesn't come from a place of defense and 
it still comes from a place of social 
generosity right like God Larry I've 
enjoyed all of this I I know so much 
about you for you know how you created 
the NCG method until you know what you 
hope your grandkids are named you know 
are you know I'd love to tell you more 
about me is that of interest to you 
that's such a great way to re and it and 
it might be embarrassing for the person 
but I think they'll also really 
appreciate your grace 
you'll know who they are and I did do 
that with the gentleman on the East 
Coast I call them out very nicely 
I said hey you know you really shared a 
lot with me today I really learned a lot 
very impressive how you made a career 
shift if I say what he did everyone 
would you know you'd probably know where 
people know him so I'm not going to do 
that and so I kind of called them out 
and I said you know honestly 
you really today you know you don't know 
a lot about me I know a lot about you 
but you don't know if I'm married if I 
have kids and even what I do for a 
living 
and he said you know you're right 
and that was about it he didn't go down 
the path didn't ask 
and it was it was really kind of awkward 
and I could tell 
he wasn't going there and then he did a 
follow-up email 
requesting some introductions and and 
not even a 
you know I I reflected on our 
conversation thanks for sharing that I'm 
so sorry I'd love to learn more 
and I just knew taker 
and you can't get him there he wasn't 
getting it and I'm sure a lot of folks 
on dates 
have met that person 
and there's nothing wrong with calling 
it out because maybe they're nervous or 
you're going to flush out that they 
really are 
that take are self-centered 
and you're just not going to get them to 
to move to your direction and there's 
nothing wrong with it find it out early 
rather than than later unless you like 
that type of person I don't oh I don't 
like that I don't like my clients dating 
that kind of person because that's what 
they've usually come from right givers 
have a magnetic force in the dating 
world to take hers right and it is a 
very dysfunctional dance so I want to 
give her to be with the giver and so 
unfortunately a lot of my clients that 
are givers you know who you are or my 
listeners they sometimes we don't even 
know what a taker looks like because 
that's all we've known 
that's good and that's what we do it's 
like I think that's a taker but I love 
the script I love calling people out on 
it in a gentle way which becomes a fork 
in the road test how is that person 
going to react are they going to say oh 
my gosh silly me I would love to learn 
more about you thank you for bringing 
that up right that's a person that we 
can give a hall pass to but if it's the 
person like you just talked to the 
person where you told the guy and the 
dude just looked at you and was like 
yeah and and then had the 
audacity to not ask you not schedule a 
follow-up conversation like wow I would 
really love this to be the Larry show 
this time and hear from you and by the 
way could you connect me to these five 
people are you kidding right that's your 
litmus test right people show us who 
they are it's up to us to believe them 
yeah it's it's uh it's scary I was 
meeting with a gentleman years ago and I 
I was having a heart issue 
and I was and I could feel I was going 
into AFib 
my heart was just beating very fast and 
I knew I know when I go into this and I 
told the gentleman who was showing up 
and throwing up and he interrupted him 
said hey 
just so you know right now I can feel it 
I'm an afib I'm gonna probably need to 
go to the hospital 
do you do you want to continue the 
meeting you know or you would you like 
me to leave and go to the hospital so if 
you're okay with it we can continue 
he did he did so I I continued because 
I've been through this before 
but I never talked to him again because 
so I just I said okay I'll finish this 
meeting with him it was another 15-20 
minutes and but if it was the tables 
returned I would say oh my God can I 
arrive into the hospital yeah exactly I 
did go to the hospital after 
I made it I'm okay 
but you know that's that's the extreme 
but there are people like that out there 
that just want to hear themselves 
and don't want to learn about the other 
person and it continually happens 
in the business world when I'm just in a 
general business meeting with people in 
career transition 
and and probably people who are single 
you know or divorced or and you know 
challenged and but I think if someone 
kind of redirects that conversation 
the people that are coachable are going 
to come around 
yeah and they may just not be aware of 
it and they may just know gosh I never 
get the second and the third date right 
now somebody you know what brave enough 
has said to you hey you know what I know 
a lot about you would you like to know 
about me 
and it's very different than saying you 
haven't asked me any questions you don't 
know anything about me right it's I love 
how you how you've said that I think 
that that's a really really great and 
powerful nicer way 
absolutely and it's what we call being 
socially generous how do you put more 
love into the world how do you show up 
in a better way and you know on dates 
well we're always telling our clients 
look for what's good look for three 
things that you liked about this person 
even if it wasn't a love connection 
because when you head into this date 
this connection with the Positive 
mindset if you know Bella or Lindsay or 
Eileen your dating coaches are going to 
say tell me three things that you liked 
about this person you automatically go 
into what's good about this person so it 
turns that maybe defensive posture into 
well I've got to report back to my 
dating coaches about three things I 
liked about this person's so it just 
puts people into a positive mindset and 
I think that your NCG factor is talking 
about that so if we look at this you 
know from a dating or a business 
standpoint n is networking C is 
connecting G is growing so how giving 
giving sorry growing giving giving is 
growing it is good recovery 
exactly so we want to give right and 
that's the thing so we go into our 
interactions positively looking for 
what's good listening and having the 
intention to give right and that give 
doesn't mean you're going to go home 
with somebody so don't misinterpret me 
if the ask is hey do you want to do you 
want to come up to my place the answer 
could be no but how about we have 
another date next Tuesday 
there you go right so 
um and the connecting you know just to 
kind of loop it back is asking the right 
questions and being genuinely interested 
in this person now you and I talked a 
little bit about this as we were 
prepping for this so one of the big 
complaints you know I should let me let 
me let me reframe this positively most 
people's ideal way of meeting their 
potential mate is through a common 
connection or organically and they'll 
complain all the time no one sets me up 
on dates nobody they're all like oh 
you're amazing if you were single I'd be 
like oh Larry you're amazing I don't 
know anybody as amazing as you are and 
then they go about their merry way do 
you have any tips for 
singles that want to 
look at their networks and connect with 
people to connect and give but also the 
get for them could be getting set up on 
dates like tell us about this 
well you know the question I would have 
for your your single audience would be 
how many folks in your single audience 
are meeting with people they know are 
connectors 
right right some people put it on their 
LinkedIn profile their Facebook other 
profiles and social media so if you know 
they're a connector already 
they could be a good person to know now 
they may be a connector more in business 
but you know I I learn about people in 
in my meetings 
and I like I said I get to know them 
personally and professionally so so our 
tell me about your family do you have a 
you know a family you know well I have a 
mom and a dad no no no no no more direct 
are you in a relationship do you have 
kids oh no I I'm single or I'm divorced 
great or are you you know close to 
getting remarried are you on the the 
dating circuit how's that going post 
covet and oh yeah I'm having a lot of 
trouble well what what's uh what's your 
profile what do you look for it's like 
what I'm like hey look I'm a connector 
I put people together you know make 
business connections but also personal 
I've gotten a couple married and you 
know put people together fall in love or 
if people just want something more 
casual I've done it all right so what 
are you looking for and so I get their 
profile and what do you like you tell me 
about height age range you know do they 
have to be in the city you know because 
you're in the city or you'll deal with a 
Suburban person or you want it out of 
state or out of country even better 
right so I will get some of those specs 
and I'll think about my network and it's 
funny like I've tried to put some people 
together and they get they get busy or 
kovid's gotten in the way oh yeah we're 
going to connect and I caught covet and 
so I gotta reconnect them it's like well 
I got dysfunctional people I'm trying to 
connect that want a date and just can't 
get together or they really don't want 
to date and that's a whole nother they 
don't but your single population they 
need to be more open when meeting with 
people so because you know we say oh you 
get a significant other you know I'm I'm 
dating you know I'm having trouble 
finding the right person yeah I notice 
you're a connector Larry so just keep 
that in mind but don't be so timid 
ask hey do you do you know anyone could 
you help me if I gave you sort of what 
I'm looking for yeah I love connecting 
people but I ask some people don't 
go to the lengths that I do but your 
single audience if they don't share it 
they'll never know but if they start 
opening up and dropping those hints but 
they know that person they're meeting 
with is a connector 
uh they may be successful in getting 
connected 
you know in that way 
no that's so true and for the record 
tell us about your LinkedIn prowess how 
many LinkedIn connections do you have 
it's like Off the Grid 
well I have uh I have just under 30 000. 
30 000 LinkedIn connections you guys 
that's like a small suburb okay so this 
guy's walking us walk he's talking his 
talk and accepts LinkedIn so I'm sure 
you'll get a lot of LinkedIn requests 
from listeners from this podcast and I'm 
sure you'll accept any and all 
connections as you always do if they 
reference Bella oh so y'all reference me 
and say I listen to the podcast Larry 
and I'm single and I'm looking for a 
blah blah blah just kidding and then 
remember when if you do Link in with him 
get to know him what do you have to give 
as well right this is not just to get 
you want to be a giver as well so so but 
what Larry's saying is something Lindsay 
Eileen and I talk to our clients about 
when they get you know uh I don't want 
to online data anymore it's like okay 
let's look through your networks let's 
make a list of everybody that you've 
known and I have done this with people 
make a list of every person that you 
know from the time from you the time you 
were in elementary school middle school 
high school college grad school first 
job second job third job 
all the people that are in your network 
and you know for some people that might 
be 50 people for some people they might 
be able to delineate 500 people right 
it's like okay now what do I do well 
look for the people in that that love to 
connect people they're those people 
maybe they're on a lot of boards they 
just love putting people together and we 
all know who those people in our 
networks are and we call them super 
connectors who are the super connectors 
in your network and do that shake out of 
your network right and we've had people 
fill out charts like who are those 
people and then 
put that put together what I call a 
personal board of directors 
and let's say I was a single person and 
I said okay I'm looking at all my people 
and I'd say wow Larry Kaufman would 
definitely be considered a super 
connector so I might call you up and say 
Larry can we can I take you to lunch 
and you'd say sure okay so we'd go to 
lunch and I'd say listen I've I'm 
killing it in my professional life but I 
really want to focus on my personal life 
and I've gone through my network and I 
want you to know that you're one of the 
people that I respect most you're always 
so giving and you connect people and I 
would like to nominate you to be on Team 
Bella so you get to officially like keep 
me in mind if you think you'd find any 
eligible single guys that would be good 
for me and so connecting with you has 
now said wow and I tell my clients do it 
in this way find your people and then 
tell them why they're amazing and why 
you're putting them on your personal 
board of directors everybody wants to be 
chosen and nominated for something so 
they've had the ones that have deployed 
this have had success doing it and if 
not it's just fun because you get to 
reconnect with connections and you don't 
know where those connections could take 
you 
so I I love I love that approach I like 
what you're doing and I can equate it to 
people in transition and in my book I 
talk about inner circle and outer 
circles so we're Inner Circle and you 
know in our inner circles I'm sure you 
and I have like a massive inner circle 
of people we know like and Trust they 
would probably do almost anything for us 
and that's kind of what you said and 
some of those are super connectors are 
just great people that love you and then 
there's that next layer and so what 
we're in transition we reach out to the 
Inner Circle 
and you lay out that profile here's what 
I'm looking for I'll add another piece 
to what you're talking about because 
you're asking 
but are you giving too so I always say 
including that messaging hey you're 
great I want you to be on Team Bella 
but I also want to you know reconnect 
have lunch learn what's going on in your 
world how I could be helpful to you 
and by the way you know we need favors 
and I talk about you know needing a 
favor and so this is a favor so we're in 
transition we go okay here's the types 
of companies Industries blah blah blah 
the types of role 
here's the types of men or women or 
whatever here's I'm looking for I'm back 
in the dating circuit and I want to go 
out with someone that you recommend you 
know you know a lot of people if anyone 
comes across anyone like this 
is what I'm looking for and so you could 
almost take the career transition 
messaging 
into the dating messaging too 
absolutely and and I'll put one caveat 
or one addition onto this amazing 
messaging that Larry's giving us and how 
to how to modify that and you can have 
your ask but then also have your give in 
there now and I've seen this happen 
where 
someone will get a setup from another 
person let's say Larry you're like Bella 
I had a guy for you I think you'll like 
him he lives in the city your husband 
will like him my husband will like him 
and he'll be fine if I go out on a 
couple dates with him he's fine he's 
super flexible just kidding so I'm just 
using myself as the example here 
um and let's say the date let's say 
Larry sets me up on a date and this guy 
could be a great friend to Larry he 
could be a great resource to Larry but 
in the Romantic world he might be kind 
of a mess but there's no way for Larry 
to have known that right and those kinds 
of things happen 
and even what I tell our clients is when 
someone sets you up on a date even if 
it's the worst date you've ever been on 
send the person a thank you note like 
thank you for thinking of me I really 
appreciate it that person that set you 
up even if it's the worst date you've 
ever been on they did it from a place of 
love and they didn't know you don't have 
to say it was the best date I've ever 
been on and you just want to acknowledge 
the fact that that person did you a 
favor and you never know maybe they'll 
keep their eyes open if they ask you how 
did the date go you can be judicious in 
the feedback that you give because you 
don't want them to say I'm never setting 
anybody up again I know the guy that 
owns the salon I get my hair cut at he's 
so funny he's like I don't know how you 
do what you do for work Bella because 
one day I tried to set up two of my 
clients and I thought they would really 
hit it off and he was really successful 
and she was really successful and they 
seemed like they would hit it off and 
they had such a terrible date that they 
both called me spewing then them and 
he's like never again will I set two 
people up 
I'm like don't do that like those are 
just two people but you meet so many 
people don't let that sour you those two 
people shouldn't have done what they did 
bad on them but good on you for having 
done it 
all right that's great advice and you 
know you it can't always be perfect I 
know I put together two folks he liked 
the woman 
the woman said he was nice good looking 
smart successful he was too short 
and he was taller than she was 
but she really wanted him a little 
taller but I couldn't couldn't fix that 
if he was a little taller they would 
then I did find her a former Top Gun 
literally Tom Cruise 
and and they they got along they went 
out for a while and then moved on you 
know but that was successful but he was 
taller so but I got feedback so okay no 
worries what's the height 
so I got better at asking about Heights 
I did meet a a woman and it was 
interesting when she gave me descriptors 
what she wanted so what do you what do 
you want you know in a a guy that you'd 
like to go out with so I want them to be 
you know over six foot 
um 250 
to like an income 
no and wait 
what do you mean she said well 
my my ex had a six pack 
I want someone self-conscious so they 
got a little little girth to them she's 
looking for a dad bud probably yeah she 
didn't quite freeze it but yeah probably 
like a stocky tough but with a little 
something to hold on to that was 
interesting so you know it's it's 
interesting but I've gotten better so I 
can do a better job 
well look at this you guys he's also 
matchmaking so now you have a real 
reason to to connect with the esteemed 
Larry Kaufman so 
um well for I want you to tell us two 
stories you said you told me that you 
helped a CEO not only 
that was in transition but you also 
helped him to find love so tell us about 
that 
so yeah so I I met a CEO that was in 
transition 
and I said you know I met him at a 
coffee shop I was with someone else 
we should get together separately which 
we did and we had a great meeting and I 
didn't know of any CEO jobs for him but 
I kept it in the back of my mind and a 
couple weeks later I met a founder of 
100 million dollar company that had a 
business issue and I thought this this 
guy that I just met could really help 
him with that issue put the guys 
together lo and behold 
that 100 million dollar founder hired 
this CEO as president of his company 
which grew to 200 million and there was 
an exit and my guy was back in 
transition in the midst of that 
he went through a divorce 
and we became very good friends and you 
know he became a client friend Etc well 
now he's gone through a divorce so I 
feel I got to help him in this time of 
need to connect with someone of the 
opposite sex and I had met an HR 
executive who was in transition so CEO 
and HR those are good people to network 
with when they're in transition but I 
have intuition and I thought both of 
them would get along personally 
and so I told each of them they need to 
get together to network but I told each 
of them I think there's something Beyond 
business between the two of you so they 
each knew that going into it and I found 
out he was he didn't want to tell me but 
took him like a year to tell me that 
they had fallen in love 
so I did a good job so got him a job 
found him 
someone that he fell in love with and 
that was good so it's only by asking and 
building these deep relationships so he 
definitely likes me a lot 
no I love that 
um of course you found him work you 
found him a an exit and you found a true 
love like you he's he should have a 
statue of you bronzed in front of his 
house he actually does he does oh my 
gosh well we'll have to put that in the 
show notes if you have a photo of that 
we'll link it so next year next year 
cute headshot so 
um well tell us about how you met your 
wife this is a great story you shared 
this with me the very first time that we 
spoke I I I did so uh this year 
2000 because you never know where we're 
at but 2022 I celebrated 33 years of 
marriage and 
so I met my wife 
about 34 plus years ago and we met 
through a McDonald's drive-through now I 
will tell you I was in the midst back 
then in the 80s signing up with a dating 
service Bella I don't know if you 
remember that but I was going to sign up 
for a dating service back then and we 
didn't have I don't think we had 
computers back then or the internet like 
the internet wasn't in existence yeah it 
was very manual but I was about to sign 
on the dotted line 
and I met my wife through the 
drive-through and she was a manager so 
she actually wasn't at the window 
and so I will tell you I went through 
the one time and got my food and I saw 
her 
it's hard to see her but you know she's 
a woman in a uniform with glasses and I 
don't know if it was the burgundy you 
know polyester 
I don't know what it was there so I left 
decided I would come back again I came 
back one more time my food was not ready 
and so they told me to park and this 
McDonald's was by the first original 
McDonald's in Des Plaines Illinois so it 
was the museum and this is the 
functioning I would waited for my food I 
wrote down my home number on a business 
card 
and I waited hoping it was to be this 
woman that would come out bring me my 
food 
it was her 
she did tell me that as a manager she 
would never go out and bring out food 
and they were so busy wouldn't have 
known it was me out there she came out I 
had my car took my food gave her my card 
and that was it and all I'll tell you is 
I never came back again 
in about seven weeks later I got a call 
at home 
and it was this woman I never knew her 
name 
and next thing you know is we ended up 
going out there's more of the story but 
we ended up going out 
there was a big age difference of about 
five years so she was very young we 
ended up getting married we elope to 
Vegas about a year later got married at 
the chapel of love and she was only 19 
when we got married and we celebrated 33 
years this year so she's uh she's a good 
human being and my inspiration for the 
book and uh you know she's been a life 
changer for me 
oh that's amazing and tell you know 
you've shared so many great things you 
know I think 
how to be a better dater right do you 
have any 
I think you've given us so many things 
about being a great listener being 
genuinely interested in somebody right 
being a giver how can you give back on a 
date so even if it's not a love 
connection if this person maybe said 
that they were interested in you know in 
magic tricks and if you know somebody in 
your network that is a magician or you 
find something at some point that's on a 
Blog you can send it to this person and 
say hey this made me think of you 
what do you think of that no I agree and 
that's why you know you you ask good 
questions and right it may not be a love 
connection but you heard something or 
your child was looking for an internship 
and a lot of us think like even with the 
magician example do we have a magician 
in our Network probably not but somebody 
we know probably knows somebody yeah you 
don't know until you go to your network 
and put it out there and ask it's like 
oh so if you're connected to Bellas and 
Larry's and Megan wessels 
you'll have access to people they know 
so somewhere they're going to know 
somebody 
and that's where it comes back so don't 
always assume it's who you know directly 
it's it's actually that next level that 
that next level second degree that your 
network knows someone that could help 
that person on that bad date like it was 
really a bad date in their true taker 
don't feel guilty you didn't you don't 
have to get something out you don't have 
to give you don't have to give you know 
it reminds me of something that we tell 
our female clients a lot is you know 
they'll say Okay I want to get out of my 
zone and I want to meet people in an 
organic environment and let's say 
they'll go to a wine tasting event okay 
and they'll sign up for some meetup 
group and I will always tell them listen 
in general women tend to be more 
comfortable showing up at singles events 
than single guys are if they don't have 
a buddy to show up with so expect 
everything set expectations where it's 
going to be 80 percent women maybe 10 to 
20 percent guys but when you walk in 
there I don't want you to roll your eyes 
and say oh my God this is a bust I want 
you to walk around the room and meet 
five to ten women that maybe aren't in 
your age bracket but women every woman 
in that room is connected to men that 
she wouldn't or couldn't date maybe it's 
a brother maybe it's a cousin maybe it's 
her boss you never know and if you walk 
in with good intentions and you're 
socially generous and you're a good 
listener and you're likable and you're 
interesting she'll probably say well who 
are you looking for oh my gosh you know 
what you should go on on a date with my 
brother this actually happened to a 
client of mine in New York city so I 
gave her this advice she was going to a 
house party I said just be willing to 
talk to people and be you and be 
genuinely interested in them she starts 
talking to a woman so my client was 
named Jill she meets a woman named Sarah 
at this party and she says and her and 
Sarah are talking and Jill's a therapist 
and somehow it comes up in conversation 
that she's single and she says but I've 
just hired this dating coach in Chicago 
and it's fantastic and her name is Bella 
and she's doing this thing with Smart 
dating Academy and so this girl Sarah 
says 
a dating coach does that even exist oh 
my gosh I'm super fascinated in this 
career could you connect me with your 
dating coach fella and she said oh 
absolutely Bella would totally talk to 
you about what it's like to do this and 
she said and Jill did such a good job in 
this conversation Sarah said you know 
what my brother's an attorney but he 
also does stand up on the weekends I 
think you should I I kind of think you 
guys would like each other and so she 
got a date out of it as well 
wow 
and did you talk to that woman about 
being a dating coach she became a dating 
coach for a couple of years and she had 
been an executive recruiter but she has 
three small kids and the demands of date 
coaching are higher than one might think 
from an hours just from uh from uh what 
do you need to do standpoint so I don't 
think that it ended up being the right 
career for her but she loved it for the 
time that she did it 
that's awesome well I think your advice 
to folks who are single the things you 
shared are spot on they're fantastic and 
they line up nicely with things that you 
know I would consider doing and I like I 
like the fact that you go to some event 
and it's you think there would be more 
men in talking to folks because you just 
never know and you're right and some 
some may have gone on the a date that 
they just weren't compatible or maybe 
that shorter guy 
well maybe there's a woman goes I like 
short men 
yeah well he was great let me connect 
you so you never know 
you never know and let me ask you this 
question if you could how do if we're 
listening to this and going okay am I a 
giver or am I a taker are there any red 
flags that we might be takers 
well I I think the the red flags are 
yeah so you some have read my book and 
said oh my God I'm a taker 
and it may be that you know they see the 
show up and throw up that they're really 
not getting to know people 
and and I some people really don't do it 
intentionally and you know I had a CEO 
over uh three billion in Revenue at a 
big company and she couldn't wait to 
call me and say Larry I was in a meeting 
and I never would have done this but I 
was actively listening and I told 
someone in the meeting hey I should 
connect you to so and so and she was so 
excited because she never thought that 
way so it's it's a different way to 
think 
and behave when you meet with people and 
to be more focused on that other person 
and so I don't think it's that 
everyone's a taker but as you as you 
start thinking about when you're in 
meetings depending on what you do and it 
could just be when you're at a party or 
with neighbors 
are you talking all about how great you 
are and I did this and I did that versus 
hey tell me what's going on in your 
world and you know how's covet impacted 
you announce tell me about your family 
what's going on here with you 
your family and amazing as you start to 
ask and listen 
but that's how you figure out how you 
would take or it's just it's I always 
tell people you guys self-reflect just 
the hearing the things we talked about 
today 
some people are probably self-reflecting 
going oh oh my God 
I think I'm a bit of a taker I think I 
gotta change my way so if we hit some 
people today they're going to shift and 
change 
then that was a big win job well done so 
dear listener I'm going to put a link to 
the NCG Factor book in the show notes so 
make sure if this conversation resonated 
with you that you buy Larry's book it's 
a great read you can probably read it in 
an afternoon and I think it'll be a book 
that you'll want to read again and again 
and pass on to your network as part of 
being a giver so Larry thank you so much 
for giving us of yourself for giving 
your time to our listener and I think 
that this was 
um such a great conversation and I'm 
really inspired so thank you I loved it 
thank you for all that you do for people 
today you're wonderful and thanks for 
having me today 


[Music] 
his name is larry kaufman and he's on 
here 
to talk about 
just his whole ethos his way of being 
his way of showing up in the world and 
he wrote a book about how he is and what 
he does that's made him so successful 
and authentic and it's called the ncg 
factor so how can we be better 
connectors to become a better connector 
you have to become a better listener and 
a lot of people don't like to ask 
questions they like to as i put in my 
book if you remember reading this people 
like to show up and throw up 
this happens in business and it happens 
in our personal relationships too it 
happens in dating 
women all the time their number one 
complaint about men is he didn't ask me 
one question about myself if you've 
heard your own voice for more than five 
minutes it's time to give the other 
person a turn 


[Music] 
even before we get into the dating 
process and throughout it I think a lot 
of the work is actually with ourselves 
right so like our relationship with 
ourselves having Clarity on who we are 
and what we want that's what's going to 
influence the dating experiences that we 
have in the relationship to a large 
extent that we get into by being 
authentic I think it's taking the time 
to really ask yourself well what is it 
that I want do I want a relationship do 
I want something casual am I looking for 
you know establishing a family with 
someone or partnership and so getting 
more clear as to what those things are 
and why those things are important to 
you I think a lot of times we may you 
know think we want to relationship but 
then when it comes down to it maybe it's 
not actually as important it requires 
some lifestyle changes some time changes 
and so if we can think about the why 
that can make everything a lot easier 
for 
[Music] 
us 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smartgaders 
welcome back I hope you had a great 
weekend I'm gonna jump right into it I 
am so excited to welcome my friend an 
amazing badass entrepreneur mom Aaron 
Keating Aaron and I met through our 
common friend Sherry Salata of Oprah 
Fame of her own business Fame Sherry 
reinvented her life and Sherry likes 
people around her that have done the 
same so she says you need to meet Aaron 
and I met Aaron I did her podcast I'm 
like OMG you need to be on the Smart 
dating podcast Aaron spent 20 years in 
the TV business she blew up her own life 
in a good way is now an entrepreneur a 
mom of two 12 year old twins and the 
anchor and all of it for a podcast 
called hotter than ever Aaron we are so 
happy to have you here thank you Bella 
that's a gorgeous introduction thank you 
so much thank you so much I'm so happy 
to be here I keep telling everyone about 
Smart dating Academy I'm like if you 
really want to fall in love if you're 
serious about this [ __ ] you gotta You 
Gotta Give Bella a call I love that oh 
that gives me the all the warm fuzzies 
so thank you you are as beautiful inside 
as you are on the outside so Aaron's 
always glowy looking you guys it's like 
right and she's like I get you're 
getting me fresh in the morning but here 
we are so I hope you guys are listening 
to this fresh in the morning so Aaron 
let's Jump Right In tell us your story 
about what happened to you at age 50 and 
where you are now we want to hear it all 
because so many of my listeners and you 
dear listener are going to get so much 
out of her story because I sure did 
well 
um you know my life was sort of humming 
along I was successful in my career I 
was pretty senior up in a media company 
um I had a lot of people reporting to me 
I was making money I was married I was 
married for 16 years we were together 
for 18 years I had twins 
um 
I was grinding really hard to keep all 
those plates spinning and to keep that 
life going 
um and to keep to stay in denial about 
um the things that weren't working 
I was like if I can just keep working 
and earning and you know prioritizing 
things moment to moment then we'll get 
through this this is but I was I was 
pretty burnt out and as a result 
um I believe I mean obviously it's it's 
a it's a virus but I got coveted 
um I got covid in August of 22 which was 
you know I was vaccinated 
um but I was working so hard I was 
grinding so hard so hard and so 
successful like you're being very humble 
right now you were like Queen of the 
world 
I really uh quote unquote had it all you 
did um you know on paper things look 
really amazing 
um but in reality I was anxious stressed 
exhausted miserable the marriage was not 
working 
um and I got kovid and I worked 
through the first week of it because I 
was working from home as it's so easy to 
do you're like I'll just go on that 
conference call it doesn't matter 
exactly let me just let's just take some 
Dayquil and see if we can get through 
this 
um I could not 
um I got covered pneumonia and I went to 
the hospital and they were like come 
right this way they checked me right in 
um because I really wasn't well and I 
needed intervention 
um and I wasn't on like you know I 
wasn't intubated it wasn't any of that 
stuff but they gave me all the hardcore 
things that they knew how to do for 
someone who was vaccinated and young and 
um and they put me in a in a single room 
and that room felt to me like Canyon 
Ranch 
what that's when you know 
things need to get better yeah totally I 
was like in a hospital room in isolation 
in isolation with tubes in me and I'm 
like oh 
this is so relaxing 
literally UTF no one could justifiably 
call me and ask for anything at that 
moment in my life 
um and that was the first time that it 
happened in a decade and 
um or you know yeah my kids were about 
10. 
um and 
I think I realized kind of in that 
moment in my life sometimes illness does 
something for you you know and it really 
gave me kind of a cosmic reality check 
and I came home from the hospital 
my husband was so stressed at having to 
take care of the kids by himself for 48 
hours I was really only in the hospital 
for 48 hours of like you know Rendezvous 
and all the awful things that you hear 
about all the medicines and steroids and 
everything but they got me to a place 
where I was good enough to go home yeah 
and he was pissed 
um because 
I think he started to Envision what his 
life would be like as a single parent 
and it scared the [ __ ] out of him 
um sorry I like to curse I hope that's 
fine you're like harbinger of things to 
come sir yeah 
um 
so you know when we had not been getting 
along very well and we had not had sex 
in a decade 
um and we had had all kinds of ups and 
downs and bumps in the road and 
um 
you know I had some really profound 
Revelations about 
you know how my marriage was going how 
my life was going how devoted I was to 
work 
where I was putting work in relation to 
my priorities in my life and I put it 
above everything else because it was the 
only place where I was feeling making me 
feel good about myself yeah 
um like and I had you know some 
Revelations about how brief life can be 
and how limited our time here on planet 
Earth 
is and you know as our mutual friend 
Sherry Salata 
um once asked me you know how much time 
you think you have left 
and I was like oh man like I don't know 
this is the first time I'd ever 
confronted my mortality and 
really had a chance to take stock of 
like where am I today and what is what 
have I been telling myself is okay and 
what is actually okay and what do I want 
and do I want more of this 
and the answer was just a big profound 
[ __ ] no yeah 
um so you know 
we we decided to go to couples 
counseling for the fifth time and we 
agreed that if it didn't work if it 
didn't help us 
um we would you know we would make a 
change and 
Miracle of Miracles my husband agreed to 
move out 
um and I started to come back to myself 
and then I got laid off 
oh boom boom boom so you're near 
deathbed 48 Hours light bulb goes off 
you come home you're like none of this 
is working for me except work is great 
and then 
husband moves out and then work 
Chernobyl goes away 
goes away 
and the one thing that was keeping you 
like okay and as what working women work 
you put more in you get more out a lot 
of the times fuels our self-esteem you 
do more bigger paycheck lather rinse 
repeat exactly exactly and I knew how to 
be successful because I've been doing 
I've been working hard in my 
professional life for 20 years it was a 
thing that I made for myself from 
nothing right my career yeah um and it 
was the only thing I felt I had any 
agency over and I didn't because when 
you work for someone else you can get 
laid off at any time it turns out 
absolutely so 
um I decided to go on a retreat uh in 
Italy 
with Sherry 
uh and 
um I spent a week there kind of 
envisioning what my life could be 
um if I had a chance to start over which 
it was looking like I did I had a clean 
slate 
um so I went on a retreat for a week 
um 
before that I had started dating a 
little bit and I'll talk to you a little 
bit about that not a conventional 
approach 
I met a hot french guy in Rome 
um I was there so I did a week on The 
Retreat and a week in Rome by myself 
and uh you know went on the apps in Rome 
french guy and spent spent a few days 
with him 
um and you know came back and sort of 
started to reinvent everything started 
to put plans in place to create the 
podcast that I now do called hotter than 
ever 
um where I really talk about the 
unconscious rules that we've been 
following in our lives and identifying 
those and how we can break those rules 
and find a new path to being Freer and 
happier and sexier and more 
self-expressed 
um so that's that's really what I 
started to conceive when I was in Italy 
um 
and I also realized that I you know I 
really had some um 
some years of like love and sex and 
um sensuality to reclaim 
um and so when I got back I went on what 
I call my dating rum Springer dying 
laughing tell everybody what a rum 
Springer is from Spring is when the 
Amish kids are let out of the community 
to see what the real world is like for a 
couple years before they decide to come 
back or not come back and commit to the 
Amish lifestyle so they go buck wild 
wild yeah 
is there rum Springers with the Amish I 
think so I think it's like I think it's 
a year maybe okay a couple years but it 
lets you out of the gate yeah you come 
home so right exactly so 
um I really just set out to see what I 
was missing in the world 
um and I really worked to reconnect with 
myself 
um in a thousand different ways 
um and one of those profound a profound 
way for me was sexually and so you know 
I had a lot of lovers I had lovers 
multiple lovers at the same time not at 
this not on the same night but I was 
like dating different guys 
um and only thing with different guys 
sleeping with different guys yeah 100 
just call it out oh yeah I mean it was 
great I'm happy to call it out it was 
great fun and what I what I was 
practicing during that time period was 
like what do I like what feels good to 
me who feels good to me what what kind 
of dynamic is appealing to me 
um I was also practicing boundaries 
telling people the truth telling men 
what I liked and what I didn't like how 
they could treat me and how they 
shouldn't treat me 
um and and being totally honest because 
I think I lied a lot in order to keep my 
marriage alive I pretended that I wanted 
things that I didn't want I pretended I 
was okay with things I wasn't okay with 
because I couldn't conceive of raising 
children by myself when they were 
younger 
well and I'm guessing families of origin 
can also lend a hand do you think yeah 
just taking a little stab at it at not 
knowing how to navigate conflict not 
knowing how to use your voice right 
absolutely all of the fear that we come 
to this with absolutely and fear of you 
know what if if I really say 
what I think and what I feel how does 
this marriage 
persist 
yeah um because what was I what I was 
invested in was the status quo 
I was invested in you know we're a 
couple with two kids and two careers and 
we have this lifestyle and we you know 
and we're creative people and we do you 
know we have I have this whole narrative 
about who we were and it was all 
external 
because what was happening in inside the 
relationship was not functional no 
um and we weren't you know we weren't 
happily co-parenting and we weren't 
there for each other we were adversaries 
more than we were partners and I didn't 
admit to any of that until after he 
moved out 
um none of that became really clear and 
so you know using all of these sexy guys 
as an opportunity to you know really 
find out 
who I now am 
um because when you get married in your 
early 30s 
like I was looking for kids like I was 
looking to have kids we got married when 
I was 34. 
and I'd get pregnant until I was 38 so 
like I was against a clock I felt like 
and what I wanted out of marriage was 
children 
um I did not know how to conceive of 
love in a healthy way 
and that's what so many women do you 
know between the age bracket of 32 and 
44 right we work with a ton of women in 
that age bracket and the risk is is our 
ovaries and our uterus take precedence 
the partner that we're choosing because 
the ends justify the means right I want 
kids and I'm going to jump out of the 
game of musical chairs now and even 
though I think there's a lot of red 
flags here there were right there's 
always red flags right we dust them 
under the rug under that beautiful 
antique oriental rug that you know and 
we do that and then all of a sudden 
we're like wow maybe kids will bring us 
closer together and voila they never 
ever ever do 
they did it in the beginning for us 
because when you have twins you're like 
in an emergency all the time right you 
know and we were really he was very 
Hands-On which I don't think he would 
have been with one kid 
um you know we were all hands on deck 
and it was like a crisis yeah until they 
started to have personalities and they 
were harder to manage and all the 
interpersonal stuff that we were 
challenged by in our relationship with 
each other became a challenge in our you 
know parenting the kids together and so 
you know I feel like I've come through 
on the other side of this thing with a 
new vision for my career with a new 
vision for 
um what I want my life to look like 
um and being having the freedom to make 
decisions on my own that come from my my 
desires as a woman who is about to turn 
52 as opposed to my desires when I was 
younger and I was needing to build 
everything from scratch right like I 
have a career I have self-esteem I have 
my children I have a home I have some 
more resources internally and externally 
um and now I get to invent my life 
from this place what do I want the back 
half to look like 
um and so that's what I talk about on my 
podcast I try to get insight from other 
people about how they're doing it 
um I love to hear about people's pivots 
and how they've made radical changes I 
love to hear about people finding love 
and relationship doing things 
conventionally and unconventionally 
um I love to talk about sex it's my 
favorite thing 
um so 
um you know that's where it's at I dated 
a billion guys I happened to find 
someone who I really like and we've been 
dating for like seven or eight months 
who knows what this will be 
who knows but for today 
he's a sweetheart he treats me really 
well he's hot 
he's younger really he's 10 years 
younger yeah 
um he's a former Marine you know I mean 
he's a very different kind of guy than 
anyone I've ever dated and it turns out 
that's working for me 
but I would never I would never have 
gone out into the world looking for him 
no and he just came through was he one 
of the members of the Rumspringa 
absolutely he was okay yeah he was 
stands out 
I was just so hot for him honestly it's 
like I went backwards you know you would 
not give me the he would not approve of 
my Approach Bella 
you're like this is so good we got it we 
gotta slim it down and so oh well after 
like two or three weeks I was like I 
don't really want to see anyone else and 
he's like yeah I don't either and I was 
like okay okay then I had to call all 
the other guys and be like I actually 
want to give this other guy a shot like 
you know and they're all honestly 
like the feedback from those guys was 
like good for you good for you yeah 
because I think everyone 
wants a special person in their lives 
even these [ __ ] dudes that I found 
you know even they we had very Human 
Relationships it was not superficial 
um because I'm not superficial and I 
wasn't treating it that way so these 
guys were really nice and they were like 
well I wish you the best of luck I hope 
it works out for you sweetheart 
right and so even though you knew you 
needed to sort of just sow your oats to 
some extent absolutely you were in a 
sexless marriage for a decade right yes 
I'm still making up for that you're 
making up for that forever 
you're making up for lost time and 
what's what I find lovely about it is 
you went into it intentionally right A 
lot of times and you you know and you 
invite you and I have had chats about 
this like at Smart dating we talk about 
sex exclusivity right because our 
clients are coming in in a different 
place right they're saying I've rum 
springerd I've done all of the things I 
am now ready for the lid to my pot so 
we're like okay let's prevent 
prematurely bonding to somebody that 
have red flags that might not want a 
serious relationship right so they're in 
a different quadrant to some 100 where 
you came from and and so I think that 
there's something for everybody you have 
to have those conversations dear 
listener with you and put the mirror 
Inward and say what do I really want 
right now and so I'm really glad that 
you did something that was so good for 
you and you glow and through that 
healing of finding a bunch of guys that 
were nice it's not like you had a bunch 
of jackasses no they were really nice 
and we had real some I'm friends with to 
this day and you know our conversations 
are flirty but like you know we we care 
about each other and we were empathetic 
to each other it was a number of them 
were in a similar boat to me you know 
had been in unhappy relationships we're 
trying to figure out what they were up 
to in the world you know we're 
reconnecting with themselves sexually in 
their own desires like it's not just 
women you know guys go through stuff too 
and and reassess what they want out of 
life 
um so that was a learning experience for 
me as well just to make friends with 
you know a bunch of these horny Jews 
laughs 
right and it's like you know maybe if 
your car tire went flat at three in the 
morning you could call on one of them if 
they left the neighborhood like your 
relationship is like okay it's cordial 
it's nice and you went into it 
clear-headedly on both sides it's not 
honest it's like hey I'm looking for you 
know the lid in my pot right now you're 
like hey I'm about to have fun something 
I want some fun and I want something 
light and neither of you got too 
attached to the outcomes and the outcome 
was just let's be friends let's have 
good sex let's hang out so coming into 
it with that intentionality everybody's 
got to know where they're at so if 
you're a smart dater listening to this 
remember you're here because you're 
looking for the lid to your pot so don't 
say Hey 
you can you like you've got the steering 
wheel of your life you just have to 
think about what do I consciously want 
and need right now 
yeah and that's it 
for sure for sure and I think I think 
there are a number of things that you 
can do to be hotter than ever 
um let's go there let's totally 
unqualified person to give advice other 
than my own life experience and you know 
my own observations and personal wisdom 
and what I've gleaned from the people 
I've been talking to 
um I mean first and foremost it's an 
inside job 
go there it is not about 
you know your facelift or your weight 
loss or your Brazilian or whatever no 
all of those things can play a part if 
you want them to 
um but at the end of the day it's an 
inside job and you can make yourself 
magnetic and attract the life you want 
if you clear out all the gunk 
that is in the way 
and get really clear about what you want 
your life to look like and I think the 
first step to that is to just take an 
honest assessment of your life 
you know how do you do that can you give 
us like a framework I think everybody's 
got Gunk whether you're single whether 
you're in a relationship I think 
everybody's got stuff it's part of Being 
Human so if you're talking about it's an 
inside job like what do you tell people 
to do like where am I happy in my life 
and where am I not happy or yeah where 
are those little Pinchy pain points that 
you gloss over 
right those things where you feel it in 
your body 
that you know you're saying something 
that isn't true 
or you're placating someone 
or you're doing something on a regular 
basis that makes you feel exhausted 
you know your body the truth lives in 
your body and I've long been someone who 
wanted to like just live in my head 
um and in this period of my life I'm 
much more integrated between my physical 
self and my external you know and the 
and the intellectual piece of me right 
so one thing that really helped me to 
cultivate this willingness to be honest 
and invite change is to go Within 
meditation 
prayer nature journaling 
um you know get in touch with the cosmic 
forces get in touch with that quiet 
Universal place inside yourself I am not 
a woo-woo person I am not going to tell 
you to get crystals and burn sage and 
read your horoscope 
but I do think there is 
there is a Stillness and a confidence 
and a calm and a grounding 
that is possible if you cultivate 
regular practices of just quiet and 
introspection 
I'm a big believer in writing I am a big 
believer in like journaling clears stuff 
out 
leave it on the page you know then go 
and live your life yeah and I think if 
you start to cultivate honesty in 
yourself 
and cultivate a willingness to invite 
change as opposed to resisting change 
if you allow yourself to redefine who 
you are today and Center what is 
important to you now 
like that there's some excavation to do 
to get to that I think for a lot of 
people who've built up a complex life 
structure and partnership and parenting 
and career 
but 
there's always things we're tolerating 
yes in life you know whether it's that 
like sticky door handle that's been 
sticky for 20 years 
like that takes stress that causes 
stress that's a pain point 
you can resolve the smaller ones and 
check those off your list and then start 
to look at the bigger ones you know what 
do you wish you could change but you 
think you can't because you can you can 
it might not be easy 
um but like I the lie I told myself is 
that I could be happy in a marriage 
without sex 
like that's one of a thousand but I 
literally said to my best friend at one 
point I was like you know so we don't 
have sex but we're like you know we're 
really close and we're co-parenting and 
like that's not important but she's 
known me she knew me before I get 
married 
she's like um hey liar 
but she didn't say that because she 
prioritized staying in a friendship with 
me and being there to support me 
um while I lied to myself yeah she's 
like hey 
it might be important to you like Let's 
do let's dig deep 
yeah and I know the person in the 
beginning though she was like 
sure totally 
you know she she totally knew I was 
lying and she but she didn't want to 
call me out she didn't want to make me 
feel ashamed she just wanted to be there 
for me 
you guys something came to mind and this 
is an exercise that I've maybe given to 
you on this podcast before but it rings 
true with based on what what Aaron is 
saying sit down and as you journal and 
get still make a list of all of the 
things in your life that you tolerate 
and I challenge you to have less than 
50. 
there is a whole boatload of stuff from 
the sticky door knob to you know the the 
button on your robe that's been missing 
for two years to your squeaky breaks to 
your lack of love to all of the things 
in your life that you tolerate sit down 
get quiet 
put some quiet music on or just sit in 
silence and make a list of all of those 
things that you can that you are 
tolerating and immediately then go 
through that list and look at it and 
highlight the things that you can change 
right now what is the stuff that you can 
bring to the tailor what's the stuff 
that you need to get to the Goodwill 
what's that you need to take your car to 
the mechanic just every one of those 
things acknowledging them and fixing 
them will free up energy 
by a logarithmic Factor you'll be 
shocked at oh my God I feel so much 
better so you couldn't be more right I 
love what you're saying about this being 
an inside job and really getting still 
and looking at what you're tolerating so 
make that list let me know what's on 
that list and how things have gone we 
want to know but I'm telling you do this 
stuff it works don't just sit there and 
go yeah wow that sounds good get a piece 
of paper out people listeners and do 
this 
yeah I mean it's oh my God I'm such a 
goody two shoes I love an assignment so 
you know I I'm gonna go and do that 
after this after our conversation 
because there's always stuff to clean up 
always there's also always relationships 
in your life that aren't serving you you 
know and that group of people who you 
like think you need to be friends with 
but you actually don't feel good around 
you know or those people that you've 
been attracted to you've not let 
yourself say yes to the party invitation 
like you can make different choices you 
can and and you know what people might 
think you're nuts 
people might think oh my God what are 
you doing I mean I definitely had to 
before I launched the podcast and 
decided to be a more 
uh self-expressed person you know I sat 
behind a corporate title for 20 years 
and carried the party line 
and was a great evangelist for the 
products and services that I was 
promoting 
um and I was great at convincing people 
to do things on behalf of a corporation 
but when you when it comes to doing that 
stuff for yourself it feels risky it 
feels scary it feels like oh my God am I 
Really Gonna talk about this stuff 
publicly and for me it's what I'm called 
to do it's what I'm called to do and to 
ignore that call 
is to live a less self-expressed less 
fulfilled less happy joyous and free 
life and all I want now is a happy 
joyous and free life I love that I love 
that and tell us more about hotter than 
ever in our own Journeys like what else 
can we do I love the inside job I love 
listening to your calling and if you get 
still all of that what else in your yeah 
Sage wisdom are hotter than ever Yoda 
tell us 
take extraordinary care of yourself 
the times in my life when I have 
attracted 
partners and love into my life were the 
times that I've been taking the best 
care of myself 
so treat yourself like someone you love 
and admire 
treat yourself like you would treat 
someone who you adore 
and that means spoiling yourself with 
self-care 
whether that's therapy or working on how 
you talk to yourself inside of your head 
there's a constant radio station playing 
the hits 
playing the criticisms like playing the 
what do you see when you look in the 
mirror what do you hear when you listen 
to yourself talk like you know how do 
you feel when you're around your parents 
like 
just you know do You Hear The Echoes of 
their critiques of you from your 
childhood like tune in and re-program 
give yourself some replacement language 
for how you talk about yourself to 
yourself 
um and then also like 
you know get a facial get your nails 
done blow out your hair go through your 
clothes wear things that make you feel 
sexy every morning I think to myself am 
I gonna feel hot in this might I feel 
sexy and good in the way that I'm 
presenting myself in the world who do I 
want to show up as in my life 
eat healthy delicious food eat the 
things that you love that make you feel 
good exercise you know put on lotion 
like I would deny myself even lotion 
when I was working hard I wouldn't have 
time 
I didn't I would tell myself I didn't 
have time but guess what you have time 
for what you believe you have time for 
and you do you have time for the things 
you care about 
like you do the things you care about so 
if you care about you 
you're going to do the things that help 
you take care of you and it's really 
hard when you're a working mom and 
you've got a house to maintain and 
you've got children's lives to manage 
and you've got a career and a boss and 
you've got a team working for you and 
you've got to this and you've got to 
that but the better care you take of 
yourself the more you tell the world how 
to treat you 
absolutely and just a little side note 
even when you are the boss 
right yo especially when you are I think 
it's even harder you know where you're 
you're 
you know if you're a good boss you're 
taking care of your team 
it's just another position in your life 
where you're responsible for other 
people's well-being 
100 
you know where are you in all of that 
where are you and why do you fall to the 
bottom of the list 
a lot of the time that was my experience 
I fell to the bottom of the list I had 
time for work and taking care of my kids 
my friendships fell out 
my marriage I you know was unhappy so I 
didn't prioritize us dating each other 
caring for each other I mean I did 
on the surface but I was pretending 
I was pretending yeah oh I know and you 
know it's so interesting I love 
everything you're saying and I feel like 
when I personally don't take good care 
of myself and I do things that give me 
joy because you're right I'm taking care 
of a company team I'm taking care of my 
domestic team my husband my teenagers my 
your clients my 100 clients at any given 
time and 
and I find that I can find solace in bad 
food right and it's like really sure the 
day right and it's like I'm going to say 
oh I'm not going to eat processed food 
today I'm going to be really good and by 
the time it's 7 38 p.m and the day has 
just given you a hundred paper cuts 
those chocolate chip cookies look really 
good and I realize it's probably pretty 
benign on you know things that you could 
be doing to yourself but it's like you 
want that instant dopamine hit and but 
it's like crack it feels really good for 
five minutes and then it feels like crap 
two hours later so it's really thinking 
what's gonna really make me feel good 
not just in this moment but what's going 
to make me feel good in four hours and I 
have to really help myself think in that 
way I don't know if you share that 
I mean I have struggled with 
um compulsive eating and have been in 
12-step program for that 
um and so food is like a huge issue and 
it's I talk about food and body image on 
my on my podcast I have it too you know 
I think women really struggle 
um I don't I know almost no one who 
doesn't have some sort of story going on 
about their food and their body 
um and their worthiness as it's 
connected to those things 
um and so for me sometimes 
you know I know that if I eat two salads 
a day that is when I feel the best I 
don't eat two salads a day I know I know 
I know that feels really good but I also 
know that bread and butter is awesome 
and so is frozen yogurt you know and so 
like you know we're a very small cup of 
ice cream I allow myself that which I 
you know I have problems with sugar I 
shouldn't do that but I also now I'm in 
a place where I feel like 
maybe I can come back to this and try 
moderation I don't know that's an 
experiment that is probably doomed to 
failure but for me 
um because if it's not an option it's 
not a problem usually 
um but that's a that's a whole other 
conversation 
um but I would just say like listen to 
how you're talking to yourself about how 
you eat 
you know because if you're like [ __ ] it 
I'm just gonna eat this this [ __ ] and it 
doesn't matter and I already made it 
right now I need it right now like that 
how did you get in my head and as we all 
have that little bat that Gremlin we all 
have that Gremlin right now if if you 
are more centered and more connected to 
yourself and not pushing through and 
running over things in your life and you 
are able to be a little bit more in the 
moment which is certainly what I aspire 
to you know from now until the day I die 
is not dwell too much in the past and 
not project too much about the future 
and try to be right here now 
um 
that it's a little easier right all 
those conversations are easier because 
you can hear them 
um but sometimes you're on automatic 
pilot you know 
um so to me it's about how do I get off 
automatic pilot and make conscious 
choices in every area of my life and 
that comes back down to being able to be 
still and get back to that place because 
if the monkey brain continues to run the 
show right hello cookies and donuts then 
hello yeah hi nice to meet you again I'm 
Bella your best friend right remember no 
sugar crash yeah oh my gosh one yeah 100 
and so yes that conscious mind you know 
is there any any last gem that you want 
to leave us with Aaron hotter than other 
things two gems oh wow 
two more things so 
as part of that going within and you 
know taking an honest assessment of your 
life 
identify your dreams 
and take action towards them your 
professional dreams your lifestyle 
dreams your Romantic Dreams it does not 
matter 
the how is not our job 
the job for us is to identify the what 
what is it that I want I want what do 
you want what do you want words a 
hundred percent and we were all raised 
by Oprah 
um you know and Oprah says the thing 
that the successful people she knows 
have in common is that they know what 
they want 
they have identified what they want 
because the second you know what you 
want the universe universe steps into 
alignment 
I really believe that I am not a cosmic 
woo-woo girl in in a like 
in the California kind of way 
um which is where I live 
um but I do believe in the Law of 
Attraction and I do believe that the 
clearer we are 
the more the universe will give you what 
you want 
you know here's an analogy to your point 
that I give my clients like you know 
when you're looking for something you 
see it said if I told you Aaron walk 
into a cocktail party and tell me all of 
the people that are wearing red you 
would dutifully come back with the 
little pad and say okay 11 people were 
wearing red then I'll ask you how many 
people were wearing purple and you're 
like no idea I was only looking for red 
perfect so and so to your point when you 
know what you want and you have that 
conversation with yourself do you know 
what starts to happen right the universe 
seems to move 
partly because you're seeing the things 
that you want and you are able to go get 
them because when we're in our gloom and 
doom when you're looking for red instead 
of purple and if purple is the happy 
thing and you're continuing to look for 
the red which you don't want this is 
what happens right so you don't need 
your Crystal you don't need your incense 
you need to go what do I want okay and 
then you'll start to see things appear 
that you've got to take action you've 
got to open the door it's not like you 
can sit there jamming your face with 
donuts or Doritos and just say wow come 
into my lap right now but no you have to 
first be able to say what do I want and 
then start to see that and then take 
first step Second Step third step that's 
how this stuff works just put your feet 
on the path you don't have to know where 
the path is 
you know how it's going to take you 
there just know that it'll take you 
there or somewhere better if you are 
super clear about it focus is a 
superpower 
um and we all have the capacity to focus 
on the things that we want and positive 
things in our lives we just don't tend 
to do that we tend to focus on the 
negatives right okay and when you when 
you do want right you know the little 
decisions that you make every day if I 
want X and I'm aware of it every day I 
should make a decision to do the thing 
that will take me closer to that versus 
farther from that every day you're 
filled with decision trees yes or no so 
know what you want people 
totally and then the last thing that I 
think we don't talk enough about is 
pleasure 
I think we don't focus on what gives us 
pleasure 
in life and part of my radical change 
has been to being has been about being 
connected to what gives me pleasure 
whether that's sensual pleasure sexual 
pleasure social pleasure who are the 
people who make me feel good when I'm 
around them be around those people even 
more you know what are the things that I 
do that make me feel good that make me 
feel connected to my senses is that 
walking in nature is that swimming you 
know is that 
um 
you know is that Spa a spa visit 
um is it you know spending time with my 
my dog like 
there are simple things and small things 
that can connect us to our senses and 
our pleasure centers 
um and 
pleasure really helps us to live in the 
moment 
and and to stay grounded in what's true 
and possible in life 
um and I will also tell everyone uh to 
buy a Hitachi which is uh a vibrator 
I will tell everyone to prioritize their 
own sexual pleasure 
um and get to know what feels good for 
you so that you can tell your partners 
what feels good for you and get more of 
the thing that feels good 
um yeah women we're not taught that no 
no and why not 
why not it's your body it's it's got 
built-in pleasure like it's already 
there you just have to access it 
um so don't be afraid of the sensual 
side of life and feeling 
um good in your own skin 
um good in your own body 
and I think that is part of what 
um prioritizing that just helps me feel 
like I I live a happy and fulfilled life 
whether I'm partnered or not you know 
whether like Prince Charming has come or 
not 
oh that is the perfect way to end this 
well 
you are amazing I have Goosebumps I 
um right who doesn't want to be hotter 
than ever and I think that really 
thinking about this dear listener take 
extraordinary care of yourself seek out 
the things that make you happy identify 
your dreams and take action right it's 
like and all of this is an inside job 
like how magical was this conversation 
thank you Aaron Keating for teaching us 
to be hotter than ever and my friend you 
glow and you are truly hotter than ever 
and I'm grateful for this conversation 
thank you so much Bella I really 
appreciate you and the work you're doing 
in the world helping women find joy and 
happiness and partnership there's 
nothing more meaningful 
thank you and smart daters it you know 
get yourselves out there if you need to 
be hotter than ever and you want the lid 
to your pot it's time to do Smart dating 
Academy get on our wait list for our VIP 
coaching it's the best investment you 
will ever make in yourself and guess 
what just like Aaron said you were worth 
it right you were extraordinary take 
extraordinary care of yourself and have 
someone help you with this inside job so 
you can have nothing but fun and 
experience joy in the dating World until 
next week I bid you a Jew 


so you're near death bed 48 Hours light 
bulb goes off you come home you're like 
none of this is working for me except 
work is great and then husband moves out 
and then work Cherno goes away I keep 
telling everyone about Smart dating 
Academy I'm like if you really want to 
fall in love if you're serious about 
this you've gotta You Gotta Give Bella a 
call I dated a billion guys I happen to 
find someone who I really like and we've 
been dating for like seven or eight 
months who knows what this will be who 
knows but for today he's a sweetheart he 
treats me really well he's hot 
he's younger really he's 10 years 
younger yeah 
um he's a former Marine you know I mean 
he's a very different kind of guy than 
anyone I've ever dated and it turns out 
that's working for me 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart daters welcome back to the Smart 
dating Academy show I'm so happy to be 
here with you today on this independence 
day and this Independence weekend and 
there's so many great things happening 
here at Smart dating Academy if you 
haven't followed our newsletter if you 
don't subscribe to it make sure you go 
to our site smartdatingacademy.com 
register on any form and you'll 
automatically be put into our newsletter 
database but we've had so many people 
falling in love we've been reporting the 
stories and we've had so many people 
seeking us out to find love that we're 
currently on a wait list until the fall 
to get into Peak dating season so if 
dating is something that you are hot to 
chat about and you think that this is 
going to be the year for you make sure 
that you get on our newsletter list make 
sure you get on our waitlist to be in 
our one-on-one program so what I wanted 
to talk to you about today is something 
that's near and dear to my heart I help 
people get into Relationships by helping 
them become better daters right and then 
getting into relationships that are 
actually healthy and happy for you and 
as someone who was a bad dater that's me 
you guys know my stories and put 
together my own methodology which I 
followed which I teach now at Smart 
dating Academy but which led me to my 
husband Andy of 25 years what I want to 
talk to you today in honor of 
Independence Day is how to become 
and seem more independent not just on 
your dates but also for those of you 
that are in relationships because 
Independence 
is sexy right Independence is confidence 
we all want to appear independent now 
independent doesn't mean aloof and 
avoidant and I don't need you I don't 
want you but independent is just it's 
that person if you close your eyes and 
you think about somebody who's 
independent right you think about 
somebody who just has it going on has 
their own life and they're just 
comfortable and confident in their skin 
right they could be in love and be happy 
but they're also just as happy with 
themselves when they're not so I want 
you to make sure that you are doing all 
of the things to become independent and 
happy and also to make sure that you're 
positioning yourself as a good 
potentially independent partner because 
the opposite of that is the n-word that 
none of us want to be and that's needy 
right we hear needy and for so many 
people it causes like spiders crawling 
on our skin and most of us don't think 
that we're needy people some of us might 
know like yeah I am kind of needy and I 
need a lot of attention right but here 
what I want to teach you how to do in 
this episode today is not be so needy or 
conversely become your most independent 
self so that you are more confident 
you're happier in your life and you come 
off as more attractive and more sexy 
whether it be to a brand new date to 
somebody who you're on a fifth date with 
or somebody you've been in a 
relationship with for six months or six 
years or six decades so what I'm going 
to do is take you through a list of 
seven things so thing number one that I 
want to tell you is super important for 
you so many of us is 
I want you to create a life for yourself 
that you actually love okay and then be 
able to talk about what you love and the 
things that you do 
so often as a dating coach I hear people 
going oh if only I if I had a 
significant other my life sucks because 
I am just that person I don't have a 
partner I'm always on my own I'm going 
to the barbecues alone or I don't get 
invited 
and when you're thinking those kinds of 
negative thoughts you know you're 
projecting out there you're projecting 
negative energy so again number one I 
want you to create that life for your 
for yourself that you love and then 
prepare to talk about that so what does 
that mean for you create a life that you 
love think about the things and 
sometimes it requires some reflection 
what are the things that make you happy 
and so often especially as women and 
women that maybe have been married or in 
long-term relationships maybe you're 
caring for children maybe you're caring 
for aging parents we've all of that 
stuff has escaped us if I say to you 
what do you love to do a lot of women 
will look at me blankly and go I don't 
really know what I love to do think 
about being young what did you love to 
do could you fashion sketch for hours 
did you make mixtapes and mix CDs what 
are the things that you love to do and 
that make you feel good and start to put 
those things into your life on a daily 
basis you know I'm a big fan of eating 
healthy okay because food is your 
medicine and what you're putting in your 
body is going to affect you physically 
emotionally and mentally get movement 
every single day right because movement 
is really good for our mental health and 
it makes us feel more positive it puts 
us in a better mood you get dopamine you 
get beta endorphins these things make 
you happier and so doing these kinds of 
things are going to help you to create 
that life that you love and then when 
you're on dates be able to talk about 
the things that light you on fire and 
make you you that make you the best 
version of you the most interesting 
version of you because when you talk 
about something passionately it makes 
the other person if they're listening to 
you now God hope they're listening to 
you it gives them content it gives them 
material to get to know you better to 
become more curious about you to ask you 
questions to get to know you better so 
that's Point number one 
now the second thing I want you to do 
and this is whether you're single or 
you're in a relationship you guys I want 
you to start actively 
traveling and doing things on your own 
go on a trip alone okay for those of you 
I've been married for 25 years right I 
have had a sidekick my husband forever 
then we had two kids I have a lot of 
friends but going on trips alone for me 
I fulfill that through my business trips 
right I go by myself I go to the airport 
alone I fly alone I often eat alone I've 
gotten comfortable eating by myself 
because I've been traveling for business 
since I've been in my early 20s I've 
been in Japan on my own I've been in 
Brazil on my own I've been in Australia 
completely on my own taking those long 
trips but what it does is it gets you 
comfortable with spending time with the 
most important person in your life and 
that is yourself learn if you haven't 
had to do that because you've been 
single for a long time or you've done 
business travel do something put 
yourself out of your comfort zone so 
many people will tell me oh my gosh I 
could never go to a movie alone I could 
never go to a Broadway show alone I 
could never go to a restaurant alone yes 
you can you guys every time I go to New 
York to do a show this coming Friday I'm 
going to New York to tape uh to record a 
segment or not record a segment to do a 
live segment on Saturday July 9th for 
Good Morning America what do I do I fly 
there on Thursday and as soon as I land 
I fly by myself I'm in a hotel by myself 
do I have a lot of friends in New York 
yeah do I have a lot of clients in New 
York yeah but I use that to become 
acclimated and comfortable with myself 
again because I don't get a lot of alone 
time my secret when I go alone to go to 
GMA or the Today show I find what 
Broadway show is playing and I buy a 
ticket for one person and it's funny and 
I've seen the waitress I've seen 
dear Evan Hansen I've seen so many 
amazing shows alone by myself and I 
might treat myself to a great cup of 
coffee or a glass of wine during the 
show and sometimes I slink in by myself 
and people will look at me like oh is 
there anybody else coming behind her and 
no it's just me and that one seat and I 
talk to the people to the left of me to 
the right of me and just make it an 
entire experience and I tell people I do 
this by myself and I bought this one 
ticket and people are always impressed 
by that and it gives me more confidence 
in myself to be able to do all of those 
things alone so if you haven't done this 
yet I want you to think about what could 
you do that would challenge you and put 
yourself out of your comfort zone a 
little bit maybe go to a bar by yourself 
sit at a restaurant by yourself without 
having your nose in a book right be 
present eat by your yourself get 
comfortable with it we so often feel 
this social anxiety that oh my gosh what 
are people going to think if I'm alone 
I'm a loser and I don't have anybody no 
people will be like they're not thinking 
about you they'll look over there and 
they'll see you sitting by yourself and 
then they'll go back to thinking about 
them their favorite subject which is 
themselves so be that person that starts 
to get really comfortable in your own 
skin and if you're feeling bold plan a 
trip for yourself maybe it's just a 
weekend I'm not saying you have to go to 
Europe for two weeks completely by 
yourself although I have tons of clients 
that have done that and they've really 
had a great time amid some challenging 
moments sometimes 14 days on your own 
can feel a little lonely and you feel 
like man I wish I had someone to share 
this experience with but I hear you the 
beauty is do for yourself what feels 
comfortable two days three days maybe 
it's 14 days but make sure that you're 
in places and that you're comfortable 
reaching out to strangers talking to 
strangers maybe asking somebody else 
who's sitting by themselves hey could I 
sit with you and just talk to them for 
an hour but get yourself to that point 
because ladies and gentlemen the more 
comfortable you will feel on your own 
the better relationship partner you'll 
be and the better date you'll be because 
you're going to feel less needy because 
you can do things by yourself and 
there's a certain fierceness and 
Independence that comes along with that 
I always feel a little badass when I do 
things by myself because it makes me 
know that I am just fine on my own and I 
am excellent company for myself so 
number three 
learn to recognize and deal with your 
own emotions don't expect someone else 
maybe it's your significant other maybe 
it's the person you're on a date with 
maybe it's a friend of yours don't 
expect people to mind read and read your 
emotions and always do the right thing 
so I want you this is really the 
definition of what we call emotional 
intelligence when you feel something you 
validate your feeling but get to the 
bottom core of what made that bad 
feeling arise do you feel sad do you 
feel angry do you feel scared right what 
is that feeling and what was the thought 
or the event that triggered that feeling 
and I want you to go deep with yourself 
like okay when so and so gave me a dirty 
look or what I perceived as a dirty look 
when they walked into the office that 
morning that made me feel sad because I 
felt like I did something wrong to them 
so I want you number one to be able to 
identify what made you sad right and get 
to the bottom of what that emotion is 
right and I want you to learn how to 
self-regulate now how do you do that 
instead of stewing in sadness all day I 
want you to think about are there 
alternative interpretations for what 
might have just happened if the example 
I just used that came to the top of my 
head if someone said if somebody gave 
you a dirty look or what you thought was 
a dirty look when you walked in 
could it have been about something else 
ask yourself what is another story that 
might have happened oh well maybe they 
forgot to wear their contact lenses and 
maybe they're just scrunching their eyes 
because they can't see who's walking 
into the room right maybe they had a 
fight with somebody else this morning 
and this has nothing to do with me come 
up with three different alternative 
interpretations for what you think 
someone might be thinking about you and 
you'll automatically start to 
self-regulate because so often as 
anxious people we tend to think we tend 
to self magnify right we tend to think 
everything is about us but the good news 
is it's not always about us someone 
else's bad mood isn't about us somebody 
else's dirty look has nothing to do with 
us so I want you to learn how to 
recognize your emotions recognize the 
events that triggered you to feel that 
way and then recognize the fact that if 
someone did trigger you if there was 
something you have a voice and you can 
talk to the person about it and just say 
hey you know when I walked in this 
morning I the story I'm telling myself 
is that you might have been mad at me 
because I saw you giving me a dirty look 
am I just inventing this or if somebody 
did something that actually triggered 
you regulate yourself tell yourself this 
person didn't mean to trigger me I 
triggered myself and I allowed myself to 
get angry bring your own anger down by 
taking the responsibility for that and 
then have a conversation with that 
person and have that conversation from a 
place of love with the goal of getting 
that relationship to the next best place 
okay so recognize your own emotions and 
know that your own emotions are your own 
responsibility my own emotions even 
though I've been married to Andy for 25 
years my emotions are not his problem 
right I'll tell him hey I I know I seem 
like in a bad mood and I want you to 
know why I've got this this and this 
going on at work and I'm a little 
stressed out right now but I want you to 
know this has nothing to do with you and 
I'm working through this right now I 
don't need advice I might want to talk 
to you later just to vent some things 
out and he will look at me and say I so 
appreciate you telling me where you're 
at and telling me that this isn't about 
me right I can recognize I'm feeling 
stressed I'm feeling scared I'm feeling 
anxious and I can use my voice to tell 
him what I'm thinking so that he doesn't 
React to what he thinks my story is so 
these things you guys they will take you 
yards and yards in the dating world or 
in the relationship World remember your 
feelings are your own responsibility 
understand what they are and learn to 
regulate yourself right they say learn 
to soothe your own inner child so many 
of us grew up in house is where we 
didn't learn how to self-soothe or we 
were left to our own devices and we shut 
down or we got angry and now we flee 
from situations but I want you to learn 
to recognize your emotions regulate your 
emotions and then use your voice to 
either talk yourself down or talk to 
another person about it with the goal of 
always getting the relationship to a 
better level now number four how to 
become more independent and seem more 
independent and be more independent in 
your relationships is have friends 
outside of your relationship with the 
significant other or if you're single 
make sure that you have a robust network 
of friends I want you to always maintain 
these relationships so often when we 
start dating somebody we tend to want to 
just suck up every second with this 
person and because we're anxious right 
and we're coming from an anxious place 
and we think if we're not totally 
together with this person all the time 
that in that separateness something bad 
is going to happen what I'm here to tell 
you is maintain that network of friends 
your friends want you to be around 
they're watching your behavior when 
you're starting to date somebody or 
you're in a new relationship or even if 
you're married your friends want to be 
part of your life always maintain those 
friendships because you get something 
special from every person that you're 
friends with we are going to have your 
wild and crazy friend you're going to 
have your adventurous friend you might 
have your friend that's into 
intermittent fasting with you you might 
have your yoga friend you have all of 
these friends for all of these different 
reasons always always always maintain 
your relationships with other people it 
will make you feel more independent and 
be more independent and therefore be a 
better dater and a better partner now 
number five right 
develop a hobby of your own that is your 
own and that you are super passionate 
about and then immerse yourself in that 
Hobby 
fall in love with it and then be able to 
talk about it so maybe you've thought 
about becoming a golfer and you've never 
coughed okay 
get yourself a golf coach get yourself 
an instructor go to the driving range 
learn how to hit balls go to GolfTEC 
right hit at an interactive whatever 
those ranges are where you can like 
video game the hell out of your golf 
game but be consistent about it develop 
this hobby get good at it and then be 
ready to talk about the fact that you're 
a new golfer but how much you're loving 
this and what you're doing to improve 
your game maybe you're an aspiring 
musician right I'm giving you the things 
that I want to learn how to do I would 
love to learn how to play the guitar 
right so pick up a Guitar get a teacher 
find chords online and start learning 
how to do things and learning to be with 
yourself and doing these things will 
build your confidence so substantially 
in yourself and it's going to bring you 
so much more joy because you're putting 
things things into your life that you 
actually love and it's also going to 
make you what it's going to make you a 
more interesting conversational partner 
because now you have all these new 
things to talk about rather than same 
old same old you can say well something 
interesting I've been doing lately is 
I've been teaching myself guitar because 
I've always been obsessed with music I 
Love acoustic covers so I figured 
instead of listening to all these people 
playing Amazing acoustic covers maybe I 
can learn how to do that myself and so 
you just become a more interesting human 
being you become a happier human being 
and you've certainly become a hell of a 
lot more interesting from a 
conversational standpoint and this isn't 
just for dates this is even in your 
friendships in your boyfriend girlfriend 
relationship in your marriage have 
something that you're developing by 
yourself on your own that you are super 
passionate about that you can talk about 
get your charcoal pencils out get your 
colored pencils out learn how to draw 
learn how to paint do that thing that is 
going to light your fire put that fire 
in your belly and just make you excited 
about life 
now Point number six is learn to become 
what I call 
interdependent in a relationship not 
codependent and there is a difference 
okay sometimes independent can mean 
aloof or avoidant like I referred to 
when I first opened up the show that is 
not what I mean 
interdependent means you are good on 
your own you know your wants you know 
your needs you know your core values and 
you have a partner who knows the same he 
or she knows their wants their needs and 
their core values and when you're 
together 
you are better together you don't need 
to be around each other but you love to 
be around each other being codependent 
means if you're on your own 
you feel like if we're not together at 
every moment your anxiety starts to 
trigger and you feel like oh my God I'm 
going to be abandoned this person's 
going to find someone better they're 
going to fall out of love with me no 
that is not how you want to be in a 
relationship and remember getting the 
help around that if you find yourself 
being more codependent get a dating 
coach hire us at Smart dating Academy 
hire a therapist this is what you need 
you need to learn to build your core 
muscles of being independent and this is 
what this podcast is about is having you 
build up your own life so that you can 
be interdependent with a partner come 
together and be happy but then also be 
happy when you're on your own you can 
fulfill each other's needs but most 
importantly you can fulfill your own 
needs that is the difference of being 
interdependent versus 
codependent when you're codependent you 
lose sight of yourself you lose sight of 
what you want what you need and what 
your values are and you can chameleon 
yourself into being a clone of this 
person that you're with who most likely 
doesn't want a clone right they want you 
to be you they were attracted to the you 
you were on the first and the second and 
the third date they weren't looking for 
a Xerox copy of themselves so becoming 
interdependent as a goal is something 
that is going to be fostered by you 
becoming more independent in your own 
life more passionate about your own life 
creating a life that you love 
understanding your own emotions 
identifying your emotions all of these 
things are haha no pun intended 
interdependent with each other and last 
but not least Point number seven about 
becoming more independent in your life 
and all of your relationships is I want 
you to realize right whether you're 
single and you're still on the search 
for that relationship maybe you're in a 
new relationship or maybe you're in an 
existing relationship that's been going 
on for six months six years or five 
decades I want you to know that your 
relationship cannot and should not be 
everything to you if it is you are 
putting too much pressure on the 
relationship one person cannot be 
everything for you that's why I'm 
telling you have a partner that fits 
your core values what you need in a 
partner to be happy and what you want in 
a partner right but then have a network 
of other people that fulfill other 
things for you I always say to my 
clients just because you love to play 
tennis or you love the Opera doesn't 
mean that your partner has to do the 
same right because those aren't core 
needs or core value use right that might 
be a want but you can have a person that 
loves the Opera that's a friend of yours 
you can join a Tennis League again and 
get that part of yourself fulfilled 
without having to pressure your partner 
to do all of the same things that you do 
don't make this one relationship 
everything for you I want you to think 
about your relationships like you would 
Asset Management right you want to 
diversify your relationships because you 
get different things fulfilled by 
different people even if it's your 
romantic partner this might be the most 
important relationship in your life but 
you should have lots of other 
relationships with other people that 
fulfill and excite you and keep you 
becoming a better person you learn from 
other people you grow from other people 
you can take on their Hobbies as well so 
I really hope that on this Independence 
week that this has inspired you 
to really create a life that you love 
independent from anybody else around you 
get to know yourself ladies and 
gentlemen get to know what you love in 
your life what you're lacking what you 
would love more of what you would want 
to learn where you would want to go do 
the things that I am telling you in this 
podcast episode and you're going to 
watch your life go from a happiness 
level X to a happiness level 3x I 
promise you and as always thank you for 
listening if you love this episode and 
you love our podcast and so many of you 
have been sending so many amazing love 
notes I read every one of them make sure 
that you follow me on Instagram at 
smartdatingacademy make sure like I said 
in the beginning that you sign up in our 
database for our newsletter so you're 
getting things hot off the presses and 
if you need a consultation if you need 
any help you need a coaching session or 
you want to get in on the waitlist for 
our one-on-one coaching program make 
sure that you reach out to us now and 
until next time I can't wait until we 
meet again 


[Music] 
the holidays are an amazing time but 
they can also be a time where we can 
start to feel lonely we can start to 
feel sad and it's incredibly normal what 
I want to talk to you about today is how 
do you put yourself into a better State 
of Mind dare I say how do you become 
psychotically optimistic about your 
dating life and your love life I want 
you today to take all of the tips that 
I'm going to give you about how to 
become a psychotic optimist about your 
life and imbibe them and if you do these 
things I promise you it takes some work 
as all big things in life do but as you 
start to do these things and 
systematically bring them into your life 
you will feel better about yourself and 
you will feel better about your life 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators I am so excited 
to be with you today and to talk about 
something that's especially relevant at 
this time of year as we go into the 
holiday seasons I can't believe how 
quickly this year has passed and that 
we're already into December right we 
just came off of Thanksgiving and the 
holidays are an amazing time but they 
can also be a time where we can start to 
feel lonely we can start to feel sad and 
old traumas grief can come back up 
around this time of year and it's 
incredibly normal and what I want to 
talk to you about today is how do you 
put yourself into a better State of Mind 
dare I say how do you become 
optimistic about your life and let's 
take it one step further how do you 
become 
psychotically Optimum about your dating 
life and your love life for those of you 
who have followed us in the 13 years 
that we have been around I have been 
espousing our philosophy of psychotic 
optimism for over a decade now and what 
is psychotic optimism right 
psychotic optimism means you are 
optimistic about your dating life and 
your love life and psychotically I know 
that that word can rub some people the 
wrong way especially therapists and 
people in in that type of practice but I 
mean this affectionately with a little 
bit of humor around it when I say 
psychotically optimistic it means we 
stay optimistic even when things are 
going sideways even when we've hit a dry 
patch in the dating World we've been 
broken up with we can't meet somebody 
that we're feeling chemistry with maybe 
we got ghosted by somebody maybe we got 
friend zoned by somebody staying 
optimistic about the fact that love is 
out there for you there is a lid to your 
pot and so 
um I want you today to take all of the 
tips that I'm going to give you about 
how to become a psychotic optimist about 
your life and imbibe them and if you do 
these things I promise you it takes some 
work as all big things in life do but as 
you start to do these things and 
systematically bring them into your life 
you will feel better about yourself and 
you will feel better about your life now 
let's talk about psychotic optimism the 
first thing I want you to do is to tell 
yourself during this holiday season peak 
dating season which is coming over up 
around the corner I want you to tell 
yourself this is my Mantra okay self 
love will come to me it's a when it's 
not an if it is certain that I'm going 
to find the lid to my pot no matter what 
no matter how old I am no matter where I 
live no matter if I've never been 
married no matter if I've been married 
and divorced five times no matter if I 
had my soul mate and my soul mate passed 
early new great love is coming to me 
it's a when not an if and all I have to 
do is continue to date until I find this 
person I want you to believe in your 
core that the lid to your pot exists 
because if you don't believe it what 
good is going to come of that if you say 
to yourself I'm going to be a psychotic 
pessimist which so many of us are we 
don't even realize that it's like meh 
why bother it's not out there for me I'm 
just gonna do nothing or keep doing the 
same old stuff and wait for something to 
plunk into my lap no you don't want to 
do that you want to be absolutely 
optimistic but then I'm not telling you 
to live in a fantasy world and say I'm 
psychotically optimistic and that the 
perfect lid to my pot is going to fall 
right into my lap I want you to also be 
realistic love does exist for you but 
the reality is that it's gonna take some 
work and it's gonna take you changing up 
your mindset changing up the things 
you're going to do changing up the 
amount of work you put into this to find 
the lid to your pot so you are 
psychotically optimistic that the lid to 
your pot exists but you are realistic 
and knowing that Jeff Bezos ain't going 
to Amazon Prime your your boot to your 
mailbox in 48 hours because you're 
manifesting them you're going to have to 
do some work to get there so hopefully 
this makes perfect sense for you so 
being psychotically optimistic knows 
that your lid is out there and it knows 
that it's going to take some work to get 
there so 
here's probably 12 things I think on 
this list of things that I've banged out 
for you I'm looking at my own mindset 
and what we teach our clients on a 
weekly basis at Smart dating Academy 
right because dating is a marathon it's 
not a Sprint and how do people stay in 
the game long term even when the chips 
seem down right the first thing I want 
you to know is that you're not always 
going to be optimistic right and you 
don't always want to take the fantasy 
rose-colored view but I want you to 
identify in your mind that negative 
voice that comes to you and most times 
we can take that negative voice and we 
can isolate it some of us don't even 
hear it right but when you hear that 
voice that might be saying to you 
whatever Bella love doesn't exist for me 
I'm too old I'm too out of shape blah 
blah blah blah that's a crazy person 
that lives inside of your head that 
clutches a you all day long telling you 
all of the bad things that are going to 
keep you stuck I want you to know in 
your mind identify there's a crazy 
negative person that lives inside of my 
head now think of the most awful name 
that you can right someone that you 
didn't like somebody that bullied you 
when you were young a name that you hate 
a name this crazy person in your head 
when Jaden my daughter was little we 
taught her how to do this and the voice 
inside of her head that gave her all 
these negative thoughts we called it 
Alvin so Alvin in our house is the 
negative crazy person that lives inside 
of your head so feel free to hijack the 
name Alvin also if you would like to or 
name it Sylvia name it whatever I've 
heard my clients give it lots of names 
so you I want you to separate yourself 
from the negative voice in your head 
right when you start to hear that just 
say oh that's Alvin again and personify 
that right and tell Alvin to stop 
talking and talk back to Alvin what 
Alvin that's you up to your old Antics 
again that's not true love does exist 
for me it's a when not an if I know this 
is going to be hard because I'm a 
realist but I know that the only way to 
stay single forever is to do nothing or 
to keep doing the same thing over and 
over again so name that voice and learn 
to quiet that voice right and then what 
I want you to do the second thing is 
what we call positive reframing there's 
so many people that will constantly 
revert to the negative instead of going 
to the positive but what I want you to 
do is learn how to positively reframe 
all of your thoughts that are 
re-frameable let's say you know you're a 
person that you know just said oh my 
entire day was ruined because it rained 
outside and when I ever it rains outside 
it's gloom and doom and I can't do the 
things that I wanted to do today so ugh 
the rain ruined it now I would say to 
you okay 
is there something positive that came 
out of this you couldn't do what you 
wanted to do today maybe your lawn work 
what did you do well 
maybe that gave you the opportunity to 
binge watch a Netflix series that all of 
your friends on Facebook have been 
telling you to watch maybe you got to 
read a book and curl up and stay in your 
pajamas on a Saturday when you didn't 
have to go out and do lawn work can you 
reframe the negative to be positive 
catch yourself and say if you're 
starting to feel bad can I reframe this 
thought we do this a lot right when 
let's say you're feeling kind of bad 
about yourself and you're feeling bad 
about your job and you go to work and 
your boss that normally says hi to you 
every morning and says good morning when 
they walk in walks right by you and and 
you were like oh my God maybe they're 
ready to fire me right she always says 
hi to me but she didn't say hi today oh 
now maybe you at that moment you can say 
ah Alvin hold on a second why am I 
assuming this is about me if my boss 
walked right past me maybe I can reframe 
it my boss was thinking about something 
else in her life that she needed to do 
and she didn't see me maybe my boss 
wears contacts and she didn't have her 
contact lens sitting there and she 
didn't see me reframe your negative 
thought to a positive thought that's 
realistic and a realistic interpretation 
and you'll find yourself feeling so much 
better so quickly when you teach 
yourself how to do this okay now the 
third thing I want you to do and I just 
went through this exercise this week on 
my own because I was feeling a little 
down and out you know I've written in 
our newsletter my mom was in the 
hospital for eight days I'm watching my 
dad age my college daughter was home and 
had some ups and downs right and it's 
times can get hard sometimes right and 
so what I did I wanted to get myself 
into the good Bella Grande psychotically 
optimistic space and so what did I do 
I'm a list maker and so I made two lists 
okay what are the things in my life that 
bring me joy right and I wrote down 
things like you know what gives me joy 
is getting outside for a walk right and 
I I've lost touch with some of these 
things because I'm so busy I'm a wife a 
daughter a mother of two teenagers I'm a 
business owner I'm a friend I'm a 
colleague I'm so many things but 
sometimes I lose track of myself and 
what brings me joy and so one of the 
things was reading something every 
single day getting out for a walk 
learning something new and you know what 
I've done for the last seven days I've 
done exactly those things that have that 
bring me joy because I lost touch with 
those things and when I sat down to make 
that list I was like oh my gosh this is 
so simple I'm going to start to put 
these things actively into my life and 
I've started to do them and the other 
list that I made concurrently with that 
was a list of things that sap The Joy 
from my life what are the things that 
are the buzz kills that I hate doing and 
I started to make a list of those things 
and guess what I'm gonna do some of 
those things I can't stop doing but some 
of those things I can Outsource and have 
other people do some of those things I 
can't change and I have to do but I cut 
out half of those things by Outsourcing 
them and it's been amazing just leveling 
up with those two lists make yourself a 
list what brings you great joy and what 
saps you of energy do more of the joyful 
things get rid of the energy sappers and 
watch your optimism in there for your 
psychotic optimism start to increase as 
you do more things that make you happy 
right now the fourth thing I want you to 
do is look at the company that you're 
keeping in your life who are the people 
that you spend the most time with maybe 
it's your colleagues at work work maybe 
it's your family maybe it's your friends 
I don't know who these people are the 
things that you listen to are these 
people positive or are they Debbie 
downers are they negative when I spend 
time with people that complain that are 
gloom and doom I start to feel 
negatively and I have to unplug myself 
from those people and go back to things 
that elevate me that put me in that 
positive mindset look at the people that 
you are spending time with maybe you're 
listening to them on podcasts maybe 
you're listening to them on the news 
whatever it is if you are feeling down 
look at the company that you're keeping 
and then think about people in your life 
that are more positive start spending 
time with those people maybe you need to 
add more positive people to your life do 
a consultation with me but we'll start 
working with us and our team get a coach 
get a therapist get somebody who's going 
to lift you up and put be one of those 
positive elevator people that elevate 
you in your life but look carefully at 
the company that you're keeping and if 
you feel like these people are negative 
it's time to rebuild your circle of 
people so that you are constantly buoyed 
up by positive energy from positive 
people remember positive people aren't 
living out of reality they're not 
Pollyanna pen glossian people but 
they're people that generally are the 
glass half full people those are the 
people that you want around you as much 
as possible okay now the next thing that 
you can do is 
volunteer and give back whenever I'm 
feeling sad and down I do something 
that's special for somebody else maybe 
you love pets you can go to a shelter 
and volunteer with your time maybe you 
love going to nursing homes and singing 
carols to some of the senior citizens 
that are there maybe you want to go into 
an orphanage and bring gifts to children 
do something that is going to make you 
feel like you have put some love into 
the world and it's okay that acts of 
generosity are ultimately self-driven 
because we feel better but isn't it 
better to make ourselves feel better by 
doing something good for someone else 
than not volunteer yourself right and 
think about where you can give back and 
go do that if doing philanthropy 
volunteering giving of your time your 
effort or your resource says make you 
feel so good about your life right and 
that gets into my next point is being 
grateful for what you have and we pay 
gratitude short trip guys but there are 
oodles and oodles and oodles of studies 
that show again becoming optimistic also 
requires retraining your brain to look 
for what's good in your life and if you 
can put yourself into the discipline of 
journaling every single day to write 
down the good that is in your life and 
specifically granularly the good things 
that have happened to you and you do 
this day by day by day watch how you 
start to look for what's good you are 
retraining your brain that might Veer 
towards negativity to look for what is 
good don't just think oh yeah I I 
thought about the three things today 
writing them down these are all things 
that retrain our brains to be positive 
look for what's good look for the great 
things that have happened to you today 
maybe that steaming cup of black coffee 
with a little bit of vanilla flavoring 
brought you Joy this morning write that 
down so that you know oh my gosh I 
really do have some good things in my 
life and that can be one of the things 
that brings you Joy and you put more of 
those things into your life on a daily 
basis but all of this requires 
Consciousness right and that's what I 
want you to think about being conscious 
and being mindful but gratitude 
journaling on a daily basis will begin 
to change your life right and the next 
thing I want you to do is move your body 
okay I told you walking brings me joy 
for those of you who know me you know I 
work out pretty religiously I'm a runner 
I'm a pelotoner I'm an elliptical but I 
love to walk do something that moves 
your body every single day it's not just 
your physical health that will reap 
great rewards for this but your mental 
health the endorphins and the hormonal 
surges of happiness that we get when we 
move our bodies they're unparalleled I 
work out and move as much for my mental 
health as I do for my physical health I 
want you while you're listening to this 
podcast hopefully you're going to put it 
on repeat and you're going to take notes 
of all the things that I say but I want 
you to listen to this podcast while 
you're walking go for a walk and have me 
in your ear telling you I am 
psychotically optimistic for you I know 
the lid to your pot is coming and I want 
you to re surround yourself with that 
positivity maybe listen to me all the 
time over and over again but put that 
positivity into your life be grateful 
that you have the opportunity to listen 
to things like this that can shower you 
with all of those good fun things right 
and so now that you're exercising and 
you're going to listen to me while 
you're walking I want you to do 
something that is stirs things up for 
you maybe something that makes you 
nervous every single day because that 
means you're pushing yourself out of 
your comfort zone along with gratitude 
journaling maybe you can write down 
something that you've never done that 
you can do before doing something that 
pushes you a little bit out of your 
comfort zone builds your confidence 
maybe it's tomorrow when I'm at the 
grocery store I'm gonna say thank you so 
much to the cashier and give them a 
genuine compliment about the job they 
did about the beautiful color of their 
eyes do something that pushes you just a 
little bit out of your comfort zone 
every day because that is what builds 
confidence that is what builds skills 
and it builds a little adrenaline in 
your system a little bit of excitement 
and it's going to make you feel better 
more competent and like you're on a like 
you're on this quest for personal growth 
okay do one thing today that scares your 
push you out of your comfort zone and 
when you listen to this write a comment 
about it in you know give us a rating 
whatever you want to do and write what 
you learn and the thing that's going to 
make that you're going to push yourself 
out of your comfort zone to do I want 
you to be accountable to yourself heck 
be accountable to me I read the reviews 
so do something that's going to scare 
you and build your confidence you will 
start to go oh my gosh I'm learning so 
many new things and I'm feeling better 
about myself because I'm becoming more 
confident amazing okay now I want to 
tell you about the next thing which is 
something that's so near and dear to my 
heart great happy music inspires me it 
makes me feel really really happy can 
you identify sit down maybe get on 
Spotify get on Apple Tunes go to YouTube 
whatever free service you have or paid 
service and think about the songs that 
just bring you Joy or bring you back to 
a beautiful happy time in your life I've 
got dozens of those songs for me that 
make me feel like I'm Invincible I'm on 
top of the world they make me feel 
empowered those are the songs on my 
running playlist right because they make 
me go better faster stronger think about 
your life different points in your life 
maybe it was grade school maybe it was 
high school maybe it was College maybe 
it was when you were Young and Wild and 
Free think about 10 songs that make you 
happy heck start with three to five and 
play those every single day and start to 
rewire your brain that when you start to 
hear those songs you feel happy oh 
here's my happy playlist I'm going to 
feel happy but make that playlist do 
this religiously and you're gonna start 
to say oh my gosh this is my Happy song 
I know I'm supposed to feel happy when I 
listen to this right and second into 
last point in psychotic optimism and 
making yourself feel good and feel 
joyous connect with somebody connect 
with a friend that you haven't talked to 
in a while maybe you can mend offense 
with somebody that you burned a bridge 
with that you really miss in your life 
maybe you can call a relative that's 
lonely that you haven't talked to in a 
while call your kids call your mom call 
a neighbor go for a walk connect with 
someone that you have in relationships 
are what make us happiest in life as 
human beings you have so much love in 
your life right make a list of all of 
the people that love you if you think 
that you're out there by yourself and 
you don't have love in your life ground 
yourself by making a list of all of the 
people that love you there are so many 
people look at the love that you already 
have in your life and then pick one of 
those people call them on the phone 
don't text them develop that connection 
with somebody talk to them live when I 
connect with my favorite people in my 
life sometimes I wonder oh my gosh how 
am I going to call so and so today I 
don't have time and when I do I am so 
happy and I feel so much better when 
I've connected with one of my besties 
okay and so these things that I have 
told you I think there were 12 in here 
will make you feel so much better more 
optimistic about your life and more 
psychotically optimistic about your love 
life and now the peak dating season is 
going to come you guys I want you to 
think about remember being realistic 
what are you going to do now that you're 
in a better State of Mind to take steps 
to change up your dating life what are 
you going to do for online dating are 
you going to do new photos are you going 
to change up some text in your profile 
are you going to change up the apps that 
you're on are you going to look at the 
radius of people you're searching on 
what are you going to change up in your 
dating life and what I want to encourage 
you to do is if this resonates with you 
and if you're feeling good and 
psychotically optimistic and you haven't 
yet invested in yourself because you 
haven't believed in the opportunity or 
believed in the fact that love is going 
to come to you reach out and send us in 
a note invest in working with us for 
Peak dating season I promise you nothing 
but good will come from this is love 
going to come to you automatically no 
it's not but you are going to stay 
psychotically optimistic about your 
chances to find love because I and my 
psychotic Optimist on my team Eileen 
Michelle 
Lindsay Anissa Carla Martha you guys 
know everybody we are all there to be 
your village come with us work with us 
join our one-on-one programs do a 
consultation if you can't spring for 
that listen to Old podcast episodes but 
I want to leave you with the note of 
you can become more optimistic about 
your dating life about your love like 
hell you can even become a psychotic 
Optimist play this episode again and 
again send it to your friends and family 
send it to the elevator people that you 
love and let them know you're a person 
that is so optimistic and you're a 
person that I want to spend more time 
with because you're one of the most 
positive people I know I send you this 
with love I send you lots of psychotic 
optimism for Peak dating season and I 
can't wait to see you again next week 
Big Love until then 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find l 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to the podcast I'm so 
excited to introduce my friend my client 
former client Stacy Catz who is an 
entrepreneur a coach a total badass and 
Stacy and I today are going to talk 
about how you are going to get more 
relaxed and more powerful in dating and 
in your entire life so Stacy welcome to 
the podcast oh what an honor to be here 
and just you know how much I adore you 
and how wonderful this community is so 
thank you for having me well you're so 
welcome so how did you how did tell us 
about the beginning of our relationship 
remind me how did you find yes so I've 
been an entrepreneur and um my company 
was do about to do a deal with Steve 
Harvey so I started researching Steve 
Harvey I found you and it was like an 
explosion in my heart and in my brain 
and in my 
being 
and I was getting my M's in spiritual 
psychology and they had a s yes project 
and mine 
was relationship and 
sensuality and I just knew 
immediately I'm G to be Bella's client 
because you said be psychotically 
optimistic and at the time uh whatever 
the opposite of being psychotically 
optimistic was just psychotic maybe I 
yeah yeah psychotically uh fearful and 
negative 
um you know really there was just 
something that I was holding and I knew 
I needed your support 
to go you know just get back in the pool 
as a single mom so that's how I found 
you and it was amazing and I think 
within four weeks I had a Bo two 
boyfriends 
so it was so fun coaching you and 
watching you you know find love watching 
you evolve as an entrepreneur and now 
you have become a certified coach and 
you are going to be here to wind 
together all sorts of knowledge all 
sorts of things to help us be better so 
tell us about what you're doing now 
absolutely 
so I have spent thousands of dollars and 
hours sort of moving from self-sabotage 
to 
self-improvement to self-acceptance 
to self- leadership and I'm really 
committed that everybody can get there 
shorter faster quicker and you know with 
a little bit less uh ditches to fall 
into really that's just my commitment is 
I've really um worked with Masters and 
my teachers have retired or they're just 
so so expensive that it's not really for 
everybody and I want to democratize 
access because I have really found tools 
that completely work and everyone tells 
you you know like so it was like be 
psychotically optimistic or do this but 
how how do I do that how be how the how 
what's the what's the magical how how do 
I learn how to ride the bike I know I 
need to to ride the bike how do I do 
this and it's experiential learning it's 
really having the experience of it with 
a guide in my opinion my experience I 
love that so let's get into having a 
guide and how do you go from 
psychotically pessimistic to 
psychotically optimistic so take us 
through some of the steps that you would 
suggest if we're feeling kind of you 
know where you were when we first met 
like I don't know if love exists for me 
if it does I'm scared of it I just I 
don't know what I don't know like am I 
going to get my heart broken am I going 
to be disappointed are there any good 
people out there like what the what 
exactly exactly the key is learning how 
to transform your limiting beliefs and 
nonuseful 
thinking and transforming them and 
transmuting them into something into 
something that empowers you right 
because it's we're only suffering from 
our 
thoughts and we're taking what I call 
what well we're taking the past and 
we're putting into the future right and 
a lot of that is somatic some of it was 
you know by the time I got to you I 
knew intellectually but there was some 
fear in my in my body too right and so 
what I work with clients and the and the 
method that I've used is really 
a releasing judgments practice 
right that I think is the key because 
when we show up and that track is and 
it's just part of Being Human there's 
nothing wrong it's just part of being 
human right but when we have that track 
I'm not pretty does he like me GH look 
at his shoes H he's he's Baler than his 
pictures he doesn't make enough money 
he's he doesn't make enough money she's 
you know 5 pound over what her 
pictures are you know convey all those 
things the thoughts the that track is in 
our way of creating the talk is in our 
way of being having access to being 
psychotically timis so it's just our 
thoughts it's just our thoughts it's not 
you know it feels like brick walls this 
is the truth you know this happened to 
me and he's bald like facts right that 
we have to weigh through and and handle 
and deal with and when we can learn how 
to trans identify oh these are just my 
thoughts it's just my 
fear and to work with I forgive myself 
for judging myself as not enough I 
forgive myself for judging him as bald 
and not making enough 
money and the truth is we're all whole 
complete and beautiful souls right and 
if we can just get some altitude and 
some space from that negative barrage 
then we can show up with another human 
being and really connect from 
there which is like completely 
revolutionary in my 
opinion 100% so you said a lot in there 
and I want 
unpack limiting beliefs thoughts and 
then we talked about releasing judgments 
okay now let's get into the mind of a 
typical dater right let's you know we 
can take you for example okay I am a 50s 
something you know woman who hasn't been 
married you want to get back into the 
dating world like what are what happen 
happens and how do we manage ourselves 
great we all have it 
great you know I believe that the key 
it's it's an inside out job right I mean 
we've got you Bella and you're making us 
you know you're helping us be beautiful 
and and present well and I'll never 
forget when you had me practice how I 
was talking in front of the camera and I 
was like this right you have you're 
you're the beautiful pictures everything 
so the outside and the actions being 
handled with your 
support and how but you're not there 
when we're getting ready for the date 
you're not there when you know you're 
trying to come up with a response to the 
60th text like how are we moving right 
we're not in your brains at you know 
unfortunately and and that's also 
beautiful because we need to learn how 
to transition ourselves from a NE from a 
negative to a 
neutral to a more empowering place right 
so I'll walk you through sort of a day 
in the life of how I do it differently 
now and how I help my clients do it 
right so one is the fear starts coming 
up and I I do something called Freedom 
writing where I will light a candle and 
I will just write down all the fears all 
the negativity it's not really 
journaling it's just this is stupid why 
am I doing this it's just 
literally writing down every single 
that's coming into your head right so 
it's really 
about getting it out of the back of your 
brain out so you just kind of release 
and you'll know when it's done because 
you'll start you'll feel calmer you know 
and you do Freedom writing Stacy when 
you start to feel like you're getting 
into that negative state so carry a damn 
notebook around with you people yes 
absolutely absolutely because it happens 
we're human beings it can happen even in 
the bathroom which or you know just like 
oh you 
know right and then I rip it up and 
throw it away oh okay and you never 
reread it because that you're clearing 
the energy you're clearing the the space 
out of your head and your experience and 
you're just clearing right so that 
really helps to sort of flush 
things and yeah so let's say we're 
getting ready for a date and we're 
starting to get anxious okay you're 
putting on your Berry lip all of you 
smart dater women you we've got to have 
our lips popped right we're getting 
ready on the outside but suddenly what 
happens W if you're thinking to yourself 
yes what if this person doesn't look 
like their pictures what if it's boring 
what if I like him and he doesn't like 
me and he doesn't ask me out again so in 
that moment we get this anxious barrage 
of thoughts right what do we do at that 
moment we're getting ready for the day 
right most people will call their 
friends right and you know we're trying 
to get our mindset right this is about 
you getting right with you 
because who you show up as and I'm GNA 
tell you a story about about my coffee 
date how we show up can dramatically 
change the course of that date and how 
the other person shows up so this isn't 
about getting pumped up by your 
girlfriend okay how do I look this is 
this is internal 
alignment I love I think this is 
something that is so missed by people 
right not you know so I want to get my 
mind right my soul right I want to get 
connected to Spirit I want to feel whole 
and calm and relaxed and Powerful me 
with 
me so it really doesn't matter how that 
other person shows up right so it's I'm 
getting I'm getting rid of the anxiety 
cuz for me it was like H you know I 
could be in my sweats right now I could 
be you know be with your son you could 
be yeah there's like a you know because 
it's time and attention there's a 
million things we could be doing rather 
than putting the spanks and the lipstick 
on right the heels that hurt yeah so 
it's like oh why am I doing this so 
whenever I get in that g why am I doing 
this I start write Freedom writing 
getting clear of those liit that 
limitation right and it it can it goes 
pretty fast you can take 10 minutes 
and build it into your plan ladies build 
this into your plan okay so Freedom 
writing and obviously and I and Bella I 
know that you know you'll gu people 
great playlist but this is an internal 
cleans an 
internal 
and you know if you can get 
still if you can you know 
just no ask ask the universe to just be 
I'm whole 
complete and nobody gets to validate 
me or reject 
me like I'm I'm good with me this is the 
whole exercise the whole way of being is 
like you're great with you you show up 
high Vibe because you love 
you and not only that what can you do to 
offer this other person so that they 
feel whole safe and complete even if 
it's not you know Fourth of July 
fireworks and you never see them again 
you get to serve that person to help 
them feel 
great how cool would that 
be am I love that I love that and what 
women sometimes complain about a little 
tangent is I'll go in there and I'll ask 
questions and be positive and be 
interesting and The person talks for two 
hours Non-Stop 
yeah well here's the deal you're not a 
victim you get to you you can like you 
guys are badass in business you're 
probably in sales you know how to you 
know you're not a different just just be 
relaxed and Powerful you don't have to 
be the victim of circumstance right so 
I'll tell you an example of when I was 
your client I was in my Master's of 
spiritual psychology course I was 
meeting a guy for coffee 
um I'm all dled up 
which sometimes I experience is annoying 
and 
um but you look gorgeous and that's okay 
and um he showed up sweaty on a bicycle 
not looking like his picture really like 
eore energy we you know I'm already like 
you know that moment where you're like 
does he know who I am can I leave now 
you know moment like no we're gonna do 
this doesn't buy me coffee doesn't ask 
if I'm thirsty nothing okay and I'm 
going 
through you know I can't wait to tell 
Bella and you know Lindsay about this 
situation right 
moment and I thought you know what I'm 
in this spiritual psychology course I'm 
going to use one of my skills and one of 
the skills is soul centered listening so 
it's really about releasing any 
judgments and really and helping the 
person 
feel heard safe understood and 
supported like okay so he's sitting 
there you know boring depressed boring 
depressed and he's talking about plant 
the plants in his house and there's a 
spark in his eye so I say you know you 
really light up when you talk about the 
your plants what about the plants 
excites you and he completely 
transformed into something some somebody 
completely different like he felt safe 
enough to tell me the plants meant this 
and it reminded him of his mother and I 
kept just reflecting back to him I see 
that it really helps you feel connected 
to your mom 
and it was a beautiful soul 
connection and I and he left there and 
he hugged me looking like he was hit by 
bus like didn't what didn't really 
understood understand what happened and 
I really was clear 
wow if I could show up for dating just 
making somebody feel safe enough that 
they could 
actually put their armor down and share 
from their heart you we would see people 
to we would connect with them completely 
differently even if it wasn't 
romantic and that's what I help people 
do whether you're applying for a job 
whether you're on a date whether you're 
dealing with your you know sister-in-law 
how can we PE make people feel safe and 
show up in 
non-judgment and I'm telling 
you your life your relationships will 
will transform dramatically and dating 
dating will transform dramatically and 
your relationship once you get into a 
relationship and your marriage all of it 
is about soul- centered 
listening so how do we flip into that 
Stacy yeah yeah how do we do that so one 
it's really a commitment and 
intention right that I to want to 
release the judgments of yourself and to 
release judgments of others and just 
show up and release anything that isn't 
love right wow that's so powerful and 
it's a choice I have Goosebumps yeah 
it's radical it's radical it's so simple 
and you're like oh I can do do this 
like I can release judgments of myself 
like okay so I feel like my Pooch is 
sticking out even with a pair of spanks 
on and my feet are sore from walking in 
these heels but you know what I am love 
and my goal is to release judgments of 
myself and the person in front of me and 
just to make them feel 
seen and 
connected that's it yeah was that it was 
that it and it's a practice and it's a 
practice and it's the work that I do 
with my clients of it's a muscle that 
you build you know when we want to look 
ripped for the summer you know the 
people that look my my trainer once told 
me that yeah the people that look good 
in in July we're working out in the rain 
in December people right 
totally so it's a practice and you know 
I'll give you an example I forgive 
myself for judging myself and for the 
misperception that you know my butt is 
big right the truth is I am beautiful 
whole and complete and deserving of all 
the love in the world right I forgive 
myself for the judgment and the 
misperception that this person you know 
is a loser or ugly or whatever you know 
the truth is this is also a beautiful 
soul in front of me wanting to create 
love right we just have to get some 
spaciousness and that's something that 
you practice and practice and practice 
you know I have a colleague that calls 
it cleaning it's just cleaning right 
cleaning and the more that you pra we 
can practice that and make that a daily 
part of your life it's not something 
that you have to just try on as a coat 
as you go out on a date and the person 
that we need to practice releasing G Jud 
Ms of is our self first yeah that's so 
hard it's the most and we can create it 
as easy like I'm it's so hard as a 
thought right so we just need to 
transmute the thought right I forgive 
myself for judging that loving myself is 
hard the truth 
is I create that is easy that's what the 
universe wants for me and at the essence 
we're all love and our you know mangel 
said how did he create the David I I 
chiseled away anything that wasn't the 
David and our work on this planet is 
just to room anything that isn't 
love if we show up in love not and and 
wanting to give love just we don't need 
to you know like I got me I love me this 
person doesn't get it that's okay but I 
promise if you show up on a date in 
non-judgment and love 
more times than not you're going to be 
met with a higher level than you know H 
the shoes uh the balding uh you didn't 
get me the drink you can we can 
transform what 
happens in the situation we are more 
powerful than we give ourselves credit 
for that's true you know I think it was 
Maryann Williamson who says there's two 
states in US based on the course and 
miracles right we are love or we are in 
fear yes and so it's like when you say I 
am love and I remember being at a talk 
where she was the keynote speaker at a 
women on Fire Conference before Co and 
she just said when you come across any 
human being from today forward I want 
you to think about this heart in your 
abdomen and you say the love in me 
greets the love in you yes and I was 
just like oh my God this is what I need 
this is what we all need especially in a 
climate like we live in today that's so 
polarizing right politically 
economically socially but here how can 
you affect this in your own personal 
life right and what you're saying is I 
forgive myself for judging myself for 
having a big butt right it's like I am 
love yeah and I'm great as I am because 
I am love yes and you don't go out and 
get love you create you can't go fill a 
cup of love it doesn't exist it comes 
from being it's who you're being how 
you're showing up and a little hack is 
whenever I'm just like in the moment out 
in the world it's I just go to inside 
myself love love love love love love 
love try it your whole body chemistry 
changes love love love love love love 
love I love that yeah because it's about 
our nervous resetting our nervous 
system and just saying Love Changes your 
your chemistry and your state right and 
it's like we got to stop going out 
dating and taking taking taking getting 
getting getting you're not going to 
create the energy 
of receiving and flow and love and 
support if we're not giving love and 
support 
100% know a couple of weeks ago I 
interviewed this amazing therapist for 
my podcast do Dr Abby medcafe and she 
said the number one relationship 
killer 
competition interesting and I was like 
but it's so brilliant it's 
scorekeeping it's scorekeeping I did 
this 
you haven't done this I did this three 
times I make this much money you don't 
make this much money and ultimately that 
competition comes from a place of 
judgment lack and 
scarcity fear judgment lack and judgment 
lack scarcity fear that I am not getting 
what I need right and what do we need 
what do we want we want to be a loved 
and supported 
unconditionally and we are not giving 
that and yet we like we want that so how 
do we think we're going to get it if 
we're not putting that out that's not 
how the universe works right now to that 
point let's say you're a badass 
successful woman you're making bank you 
you're making a great lifestyle and now 
you meet somebody and doesn't quite fly 
in your financial air 
how do you how do you reconcile this 
from a mindset standpoint if you can 
yeah well do you you know do you want to 
be in a relationship for 40 years with 
the bank account or do you want to be in 
a relationship with somebody who loves 
you supports you will go to Trader Joe's 
for you will you know so I think we 
don't we need to measure our love not on 
an abacus and not on a bank account and 
let me tell you something ladies in the 
50 plus somebody's finances will go up 
and down in a lifetime so you can be 
with somebody during their 30s who then 
you know gets fired or is an 
entrepreneur who loses it so it's a 
little 
shortsighted to be measuring it in 
dollars you want to be with somebody who 
makes you laugh somebody who's got your 
back somebody who you know you want to 
hang out with somebody who's going to 
weather the storms with you and you do a 
great exercise who are the best people 
in our lives and how do they make us 
feel amen 
amen right elevator people baby yeah 
yeah that's what it we 
gotta we and I get it because I I did 
that I used to do that too and you know 
my awareness in my 50s was is a heck of 
a lot different than who I was in my 
late 20s and 30 
ities and um you know who's going to be 
by your side when your parents are sick 
who's that guy who's that woman right 
it's not their bank account it's not and 
it no because it's the bank accounts are 
going to fluctuate people how's their 
character yeah absolutely and at the end 
of the day this is really making me 
think the way we're talking about this 
is what is a bank account account It 
ultimately relates back to 
safety right right that's it do you have 
can you fly in my airspace so I can be 
safe right and that can mean a five-star 
trip to Italy or Paris But ultimately is 
it really about that or is it about 
feeling safe with 
somebody yes and Cal relaxed and 
Powerful it's like who's and 
people I would offer that give that to 
serve that to people it doesn't take 
anything out of you like show up and ask 
how can I serve this person with love 
and support and non-judgment in these 40 
minutes and and it's not an interview 
and so stop like you know where'd you 
grow up and you 
know let's play a little bit you know 
find out you know and show up show up as 
the the person you love show up how you 
you know I want to show up in loving 
non-judgment and support of 
somebody and it's it's what can we 
give 
because that's what relationship is so 
let's completely be 
revolutionary in how we show up in 
dating I can guarantee you you're more 
you are so powerful you're going to find 
things out much more quickly when you 
show up from that place then what's he 
wearing where does he work where did his 
parents from do they have money what are 
the shoes you know he said the word this 
and I hate 
that you can change your life really 
fast when you're clear with how am I 
showing up me for me and he may not 
appreciate it but I showed up in 
alignment with how I want to show 
up right and if we go back to your date 
with plants guy yeah you showed up in 
loving non-judgment and support and you 
heard and you picked up on what he lit 
up about and you gave him a connection 
that day that I'm sure maybe for you you 
know when you're not in the right 
mindset it can feel like I'm not his 
therapist why should I have to do that 
but again if you stand back and say my 
goal is to make him feel love and 
supported during this date that doesn't 
mean that you have to go out with the 
person again that doesn't mean that this 
person is going to be your boyfriend or 
girlfriend or your husband tell us about 
that like you leave the plant date what 
happened I felt so great because I 
decided who do I want to be in the world 
I want to be the presence of love so I 
left there so proud of me and we had a 
Beautiful Exchange like there was a flow 
of energy right so no what did I want to 
see again absolutely not as a date I'm 
good we had a complete experience but it 
wasn't like I would have evaluated in 
the past like a complete time suck and 
waste of my time and instead because of 
my intention and who I declare myself to 
be the presence of love and loving 
service I left there going yay me I did 
that and I know that I made a positive 
in his world and even if he wasn't 
appreciative I'm like yay me anyways I 
did it I did it and now that's how I can 
show up in business that's how I can 
show up with you know my annoying 
whoever in my life it's it's really 
about loving who you're showing up as in 
the world and a love affair with myself 
so when I am dating or you know whatever 
you're doing trying to get clients or 
looking for a 
job um I love who I'm being I like who 
I'm being nobody gets to reject me I'm 
unrejected 
you can't reject me I am unre I am un 
rejectable you cannot reject me because 
I am so 
clear that I am in alignment with who I 
want to be and how I show up regardless 
of what's Happening externally 
how if somebody says no to you for a 
second or a third date or you don't get 
the job offer how do you tell yourself I 
am unrejected when you feel that let 
down feeling is there an exercise we can 
do to lift ourselves back up it's really 
simple so everything is um you know a 
prayer a wish whatever works for you I 
always ask I'm calling in the light for 
the highest good 
so everything is just throwing it out 
you're putting yourself in this white 
light for the highest 
good so like over a year ago I was in 
this big deal um and they put me through 
my okay my unevolved answer is the 
ringer but you know my 
paces and at the 11th hour after I had 
gone through everything they just you 
know said H it's not going to 
work and you know big money on the table 
I had a lot emotionally invested and I 
just immediately was clear this was not 
for my highest good and I let it 
go sometimes you know they you say you 
know God's rejection is your protection 
but it really helps if you're not alone 
in the forest with your machete because 
I did that for a long 
time it really gets tiring and I'm sure 
we can all relate to just being tired of 
you know whacka maching our way through 
the world yeah and hearing no yeah and I 
have created that there's a million 
yeses in every no like so there's a 
window if that door is closed 
and we don't know people after three 
dates we have an idealized version of 
who we've created them to be we don't 
know them you're unrejected it wasn't 
for you there's thousands of people on 
the planet don't put this avatar on 
someone you don't know them how can you 
be in love with them maybe you're you 
know so it's just like okay wasn't for 
the highest good let's go right because 
if I love me 
holy then if you say no to me that's 
okay because I love me and that doesn't 
mean that it's anything bad about me it 
just means you're not right for me 
and I'm going to tell you you don't have 
to nobody loves them themselves 100% 
okay you know and I've done done a lot 
of a lot and I don't love myself 100% 
all the 
time and I accept I've learned to accept 
myself and people I'm telling you you 
know I'm going to I'm going to offer a 
free gift for the Smart dating community 
on my website um stacyc cats.com I want 
every to have a releasing judgments 
compassionate self forgiveness practice 
it is the number one skill and practice 
that will change your entire 
world right so I spent so much time and 
money in 
self-improvement and I finally realized 
that no amount of self-improvement can 
make up for lack of self-acceptance 
I love that that means warts and all 
fatness heavy right you know getting the 
job having not enough money kids not 
listening full contact life and being 
like I I accept and I'm imperfect and I 
love and it's 
okay it's okay the chaos is okay it's 
just part of being a human being on the 
planet right right when we release our 
expectations of being perfect and people 
treating us 
perfectly makes things a hell of a lot 
easier yeah yeah yeah can you leave us 
with the gem of how we can be better 
quickly okay I would say listen for the 
gold so we can listen to this podcast we 
can listen to our dates we can listen to 
our partners because you're going to 
need this in 
Partnership I agree I don't agree he 
said that listen for the 
gold scan for what's 
right scan for what's right listen is 
there any gem is there a plants I see 
the plants like listen for the gold you 
know even when you're on a really 
terrible date sometimes you get a great 
restaurant recommendation that could be 
the gold listen for the gold listen for 
the gold yeah and if you find yourself 
looking at someone's shoes or the fact 
that he's sweating what do you tell 
yourself in that moment give us a a 
quick check yeah I forgive I forgive 
myself for the judgment and the 
misperception that this guy's shoes is 
everything that he is I forgive I 
wouldn't want that somebody be judging 
me only on my you want to be judged only 
on your shoes I don't think so right and 
if you walk in in your lubu tons you 
don't want to be judged 
yeah what else does this person have to 
offer somebody loves him on the planet 
what can you find one thing that's cool 
and nice and kind about this 
person just listen for the gold in 
someone the world will 
alter I love that Stacy I feel better 
for having been in your presence for 
this 40 minutes oh I love you Bella your 
smile just is so contagious who you are 
in the world helping people find love I 
can't think of a higher calling and I'm 
deeply grateful for to you personally 
for creating this community for your 
your media work and just spreading love 
in the world and thank you for having me 
it's been a real honor oh it's an 
absolute Delight thank you for being 
here and I'm sure we will have you back 
again um if people want to follow you on 
social media or get the gifts go to 
stacyc cats.com okay yeah sty K 
az.com and I would love to support you 
to just live a more empowered relaxed in 
life and help you find love within 
yourself and out there in the world oh 
well you are love and thank you for 
being here and smart daters I hope that 
you feel like Stacy has given you some 
tips to take the steering wheel back of 
your own mind and heart to know that 
your thoughts are just your thoughts 
they're not true and you can come back 
to a place of love and forgiveness for 
yourself and for everybody that you come 
across and wow what a freaking awesome 
way to show up in the world so thank you 
for making us all better smart daters I 
hope you're feeling better and uh if 
you're not it's time to do or maybe you 
are maybe you are feeling better reach 
out to us do a one-hour consultation 
with me I promise it'll rock your world 
you need you deserve love you are worthy 
of love you are love we are love we are 
love and with that we'll see you at the 
next episode 


I'm not pretty does he like me uh he's 
he's Baler than his pictures he doesn't 
make enough money he he doesn't make 
enough money the thoughts that track is 
in our way of creating the talk is in 
our way of having access to being 
psychotically up so it's just our 
thoughts and when we can learn how to 
identify oh these are just my thoughts 
it's just my fear and to work with I 
forgive myself for judging myself as not 
enough I forgive myself for judging him 
as bald and not making enough money and 
the truth is we're all whole complete 
and beautiful souls right and if we can 
just get some altitude and some space 
from that negative barrage then we can 
show up with another human being and 
really connect from there which is like 
completely revolutionary 100% 


my friend and personal trainer stephanie 
mann source building dating confidence 
is something we work on at smart dating 
academy and i know 
in your practice it's really really 
important many of my clients are you 
know struggling with their weight so as 
a weight loss coach i do focus on the 
nuts and bolts of how we can lose weight 
the nutritional side the physical side 
with the workouts but also the emotional 
side and the spiritual side but what i 
try to do is i try to help my clients to 
get all these things going in tandem so 
we can date while we're losing weight 
even if we're not at the exact place 
that we want to be with our bodies 
physically we can still feel confident 
in knowing that we're working on it and 
we can still actively date at the same 
time because i know you know life is 
short time to go after what you want 
stuff when somebody does kind of trash 
themselves in a way 
i always say if you wouldn't say it to 
your best friend why would you say it to 
yourself 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find l 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to this week's podcast and 
we are going to talk about the real 
reason real relationships fail and I 
have with us an amazing guest that we've 
been talking before we got recording I'm 
like oh my God I just want to jump 
through the screen and like go have you 
know a cup of coffee with you Dr Abby 
medcap so I'm going to call you Abby 
she's a psychologist a relationship 
Maven an author a podcast host a tedex 
speaker who's helped thousands of people 
to think differently so they can create 
connection ease and joy in their 
relationships with the people you want 
but also with yourself so Abby welcome 
to the Smart dating Academy thank you so 
excited to be here I can't right we were 
already vibing so I'm ready to let's 
let's change lives okay let's change 
lives 
go what's the real reason relationships 
fail let's go there let's jump in the 
and because you know for years I've been 
doing this now 40 years you know working 
with people in various settings and uh I 
always 
hear the number one problem in my 
relationship is communication that's 
right that's what people say and I have 
to tell them that's not correct that 
that that the number one problem in your 
relationship when you get into a 
relationship with someone the biggest 
problem is actually 
competition so as we I know at we keep 
score we keep score so even in the very 
early dating right did what did he text 
me last do I text him did uh someone pay 
or not pay did like we're keeping score 
we're keeping score we're watching what 
they're doing deciding what we do we 
think about well I don't want to say I 
love you first I want I want them to say 
I love you first we I mean over and over 
and then when you get in the 
relationship well oh you went out with 
your friends on Friday so I get to go 
out with my friends on Saturday you 
spent money on this so I get to spend 
money on this when you have kids later 
you know it's like you took Sophie to 
baseball on Monday I have you know I'll 
take Jack to piano on Friday like there 
I'm telling you it is we compete for 
time we compete for love like who's 
showing it who's not how and it's that 
is the problem when you are with someone 
you are on the same team it is one team 
it is a shared battery and if you start 
seeing someone as comp and it especially 
happens when we're dating we we're 
guarding our hearts we're waiting 
there's a lot of waiting I've found with 
my clients oh yeah I mean first of all 
when you said competition it's the first 
time I've heard it so explicitly and and 
at first when you said it I thought huh 
how so and then when you say it you boil 
it down it's so true even I've been 
having conversations with my clients 
this week about well I make more money 
than he does I feel like he's getting an 
upgraded life if he with me I'm like oh 
[ __ ] it's all a competition I can say 
I've been guilty of it in my own 27 year 
marriage like I'm doing more across the 
board I'm leading I'm making money I am 
taking my kids I take the emotional load 
and I get resentful sometimes and when 
you said that I was like oh my God M 
drop okay 
who you so think of that right think of 
how that shows up over and over how even 
the I love the money one because I get 
that too you know dealing with people I 
I always say this to to women especially 
I think we're mostly talking to women 
although I know men listen and they out 
there 
too when you make a list this is anybody 
when you make a list of your perfect 
person right here's my dream 
person no woman I've ever met has Ms the 
lawn well on there makes even how much M 
Sometimes women you know people will put 
makes x amount of dollars they will but 
it's not usually the first thing and if 
it is you're in some trouble and you 
know that but even if it makes the list 
so what do we have on that list right we 
have qualities we have always has my 
back you I hope you have that by the way 
um you know even when we fight uh I know 
that they respect me um they always 
speak in a loving often speak in a 
loving tone you know we fight fair we we 
they're compassionate uh they they I 
know that I'm number one in their Liv so 
they think of me first what right these 
are the things we write down but then we 
start getting weird the competition 
phase we don't that's not what we're 
looking at so when you think of that I 
have a great this story where my tire 
was flat of my car right and New York 
City girl I was like I didn't understand 
really how to fix that I didn't know you 
just put air in it I I didn't know you 
just put air in the tire I didn't even 
know and Gary's like you know you need 
to get that you know it's unsafe to 
drive he kept kind of reminding me and 
he was getting upset like you can't keep 
driving with this low air on your tire 
what is wrong with you and then one day 
I came out and the tire was full and I 
was and I acted like he split the atom 
you don't even know like I I thought 
this was the biggest thing that ever 
could have been done right now how long 
did that take him not very long but and 
I said to him oh my God thank you so I 
was like tripping over myself with 
gratitude because I was so overwhelmed 
with this silly task I didn't understand 
and he I said what made you do it he 
said you know I started remembering how 
confident you are he goes you are like 
the most productive person I know and 
one of the most confident people I know 
so I knew if you weren't doing it you 
probably didn't know how easy it was to 
get done like you didn't get it and I 
realized all the times I was telling you 
to do it I could just go do it for you 
and so I just did it and that is 
value that is more right that is more 
than how much money he makes how much he 
cleans the K gets the kitchen counter 
perfect you know doesn't yeah when he's 
cleaned the bathroom he's left the full 
garbage can because he somehow didn't 
notice it you know because this is what 
happened you know and this but we 
Overlook these things all the time and 
I'm going to talk about why from a brain 
perspective because when you see okay 
let's just go there you realize when you 
realize why you think you're seeing 
something and you're not and there's 
there's really three things at play the 
first thing is something called our 
reticular activating system or Ras for 
short and this is part of your brain 
everybody has it the base the four basal 
ganglia blah blah blah your R is a 
filter between your conscious and your 
subconscious Brains it's there for the 
brain's efficiency so it everyone knows 
what this is it sends messages from your 
conscious to your subconscious things 
you're thinking about it tells your 
subconscious to look for it and everyone 
knows if they've ever thought of buying 
a new car you see the car everywhere you 
know what I'm say like just thinking 
about the car you're like oh my God 
there's white BMWs everywhere that you 
whatever you liked that's all you see 
that is your R because what it did it 
took something consciously thinking 
about I like the white Tesla and it sent 
it as an order or an instruction to your 
subconscious to look for white Teslas is 
trying to be economical right and so if 
you think there's no good men in New 
York all the good men are all all the 
men are [ __ ] in New York if you are 
thinking that guess what you're you're 
RIS your conscious sends that to as a 
message to your subconscious to look for 
men 
acting 
poorly and not only will it only show 
you Icky men this is the scariest part 
your R will filter out anything that 
doesn't match again in the in the name 
of efficiency and economy so anytime a 
man is really kind maybe some guy opens 
the door for you on your way into a 
Starbucks or something right you don't 
even notice him he does not exist for 
you he's not here in the world you only 
because your RS has told you that these 
men don't count and I can't tell you how 
many couples sessions I have sat in and 
I and she is saying you don't appreciate 
me and he 
goes oh my God last night I told I 
thanked you three times for dinner he 
said I you know I picked up the dry 
cleaning on the way home because you had 
at you know without you asking sorry and 
I took you for your birthday we went to 
a thing and she goes literally I've had 
this and she'll say yeah well that but 
you really don't appreciate me that's 
the RAS and everyone listening has had a 
moment of this where they the the proof 
comes in and you you're like Teflon for 
it you don't hear it you don't see it 
that way and you think you're seeing the 
truth but you're actually seeing a 
skewed version of what your brain will 
allow and so this reticular activation 
system is that right activating system 
yes activating system so it's in your 
prefrontal cortex like it's in your 
conscious brain it it's not not where it 
seats in the brain but it it's how it 
works it it's taking these messages from 
your from your conscious brain from 
things you think and it is sending them 
to your subconscious and we all know 
right our subconscious is really in 
charge and drives everything we do I 
think everybody kind of knows that by 
now so you're oh well and let me tell 
you another piece please this is like 
this is a research by Timothy Wilson 
who's one of my favorite researchers and 
um Malcolm Gladwell loves him too so 
he's become very famous since Gladwell 
started writing about him but uh his 
research shows that your conscious brain 
processes information at a rate of 40 
bits per second while your 
subconscious processes information at a 
rate of 11 million bits per second 
so people yes so people don't hear what 
you say they hear what you 
mean so when you're on a date and you 
think uh oh I'm so nervous I'm anxious 
is he going to like me I don't know is 
she going to think I'm handsome or oh 
God I got to talk about you know this 
thing or I've been divorced twice and I 
don't want to talk about it whatever 
you've got on your brain okay what 
happens is you sit down but consciously 
you're like okay this is gonna be great 
and we're gonna get really get along and 
I'm really you know you've probably 
pumped them up and they're ready to go 
right and they sit down but that 11 
million the doubt the worry the anxiety 
if that is an all there truly there 
that's what the other person picks up on 
so you're saying all the right things 
and they're hearing them but they're 
getting a funny feeling they're they're 
getting a it doesn't match right they're 
getting these words that seem like 
you're you're together and whatever but 
you're hiding something clearly and I 
can't tell you how many men and women 
I've had say to me yeah you know he or 
she was really nice on the date it went 
well but I don't know there was 
something I feel like there was 
something and like that they were hiding 
I hear that a lot by the way and and 
this is it you're not hi they're not 
hiding necessarily anything but they are 
that you're picking up on the 11 million 
bits every one has walked down the 
street and seen something somebody 
coming at them really women I should say 
have seen someone coming at them and you 
got a funny feeling and you like moved 
your pocketbook to the other side or you 
you know crossed the street they didn't 
say anything to you they maybe not even 
looked at you but you had a feeling 
that's the 11 million bits you know if 
someone in the office is talking gr and 
saying all these wonderful things and 
you're like that guy's full of crap you 
know like I don't believe a word they 
say 11 million bits your 11 million is 
always operating so if you're not fully 
aligned if your belief system is there's 
no good people out there no one's going 
to really want me because of X Y and 
Z uh uh all men suck all women are gold 
diggers whatever any belief you know and 
which is just a thought you've had over 
and over which I know you teach you know 
it's just a thought you're having over 
and over it's not true but any belief 
you have like that your subconscious is 
driving that feeling associated with it 
we feel the way we think so anywhere 
that that's a thought those feelings are 
present and people pick up on the energy 
and so before you go on any date before 
you walk in with anybody it's not just 
about hyping yourself up which is a nice 
thing to do of course it is about truly 
aligning what you believe with you know 
what you're what you're walking into 
but I think people are often you 
probably experience this don't you find 
that a lot of times people are like 
afraid to 
Hope yeah because they don't want the 
disappointment afterwards right right 
they and 
so let's say you are an anxious person 
and let's say you have these messages my 
picker is bad I'm not going I'm too old 
I'm not attractive enough now you know 
you're hyped up and you've put your good 
playlist on and you've got your red 
lipstick on and you you know you're 
you're feeling you're you're doing 
everything you can so what you're saying 
is if you actually are thinking to 
yourself I'm not good enough I don't 
know if this person's going to like me 
that's what they're going to pick up on 
y so there's going to be dissonance yes 
like something was just a little yeah 
little off person yep and and you felt 
it yourself on your date right you've 
been there you've been sitting there any 
of your clients or people listening it's 
like I've been on this date and I we 
really having something but then I don't 
know or he he was avoiding a subject or 
she didn't give me a full answer on this 
or and we read a lot into it right we we 
have like we're like we're like NASA 
scientists getting the shuttle home you 
know we're like oh what does that mean 
and I don't know and I got to figure it 
out you know we're really going after it 
and instead if you can just allow you 
know your real job prepping for anything 
any any dating and at all is to look at 
your beliefs and create new ones so um 
yes there's uh there's a there's a lot 
of men who aren't right for me and 
there's literally billions of men in the 
world like there's definitely men who 
could be right for me and uh do you know 
what I mean or or there's yeah there's a 
lot of crappy women maybe but yeah 
there's a lot of great women of course 
there are like something or everything 
is figure out or you know anything I put 
my mind to I generally have achieved in 
my life but the bigger bigger piece is 
to be willing to risk love to be willing 
and when I say love based like I think 
of love-based emotions to be vulnerable 
to be open to be kind to be 
compassionate 
to bring it first and not wait stop 
waiting stop put it all out there put it 
out at least they'll either like who you 
are or not you know but better to know 
right away this idea that we just only 
put out the certain part now I'm not 
talking about the boundaries of what you 
talk about don't get me wrong here so 
you know we're not you're not advocating 
for TMI and not advocating for TMI and 
that's what's so important that's what 
people think for a minute I'm talking 
about going in with your full open 
heart that is a different thing no 
relationship ever in the history of 
relationships was made better by 
fear not one you can't have a love 
relationship based on fear like it's 
just not going to happen so why not 
start off at the very beginning with 
this cander with this openness with this 
willingness with this um hope with this 
sense of fun 
um with this sense of playfulness with 
you know that even if you're telling 
yourself first you know what I have 
a I have a wonderful full life and I 
hope to add someone that would be so 
great and I'm really okay on my own too 
like what if even that was what you said 
when you walked in uh you know the top 
of my website says be with someone who 
makes you happy and it the wi is crossed 
out you know be someone who makes you 
happy you know be there in that energy 
when I'm coaching clent like that's a 
lot of what I'm talking about what are 
your beliefs how do we shift them 
because that is how and it's so funny CU 
My Own Story which I was sharing with 
you I've met both of my husbands but 
only one at a time not to worry uh on 
both great men I have an excellent 
relationship with my father my kids my 
ex both very long-term relationships 
with these wonderful men that I met 
online you know that I met that way 
because I believe I believe differently 
about relationships and so I have had 
great luck that's what people always say 
to me well you have just really good 
luck in relationships I'm like I'm 
really what does that mean I don't even 
know what that means I believe in love I 
am not afraid to risk I'm not afraid to 
go out there and so that makes a 
difference with who I meet and how we 
meet and what I'm open to so Abby give 
us a new belief 
if someone if there's a woman out there 
who is settling 
for mediocre treatment in her 
relationships right what does that 
ultimately mean it means that in her 
subconscious she feels like that's all 
she's going that's all she's worthy of 
exactly and if you're thinking more 
you're because your friends tell you 
you're too picky so does your mother 
people tell you you're too picky your 
standards are too high you're I hate 
that I'm like what are we talking about 
I you know what do you mean too hot like 
you need to have standards and again 
here's the thing I noticed when people 
aren't getting what they need they focus 
on what they 
want you don't need someone who makes 
$500,000 a year so that's what you end 
up or you don't need someone who cleans 
the kitchen counters really 
well but what you need is someone who 
has your back someone who really just 
cherishes you someone who values you and 
maybe not even all the things you value 
but values you adores you adores you 
cherishes you Gary looks at me like I'm 
magic still the moon H Mo so that's it 
but then you focus on oh but he doesn't 
have the money or he's not tall enough 
or he's not this enough or do you know 
what I'm saying we end up focusing on 
these things that because we're not 
getting that 
feeling and then it looks like we're too 
picky because if you told anyone well 
I'm just really Holding Out for someone 
who really holds me in high regard no 
one would say boo to you no no one would 
question that and what do you say to the 
person who is not being picky and is in 
for this Behavior right and thinks well 
you know it's not so bad no it is bad 
and every person in their life is saying 
you need to end this yes and it's like 
well I can't end it I mean I'll end it 
when blah blah blah or when someone 
better comes along someone better is not 
gonna come along not gonna come along 
there's no room there's I'll end it when 
I lose 50 lbs I'll end it when it's like 
hold on what do you tell that person 
what's the belief yeah the so it's that 
say right it's that that is really 
connected to our low selfworth right and 
to you know where else are they settling 
in their life so for me with those folks 
I do have them write a list of and but 
it should be no more than three to five 
things and I have even like a little 
worksheet maybe I can maybe we'll um 
make sure you have that or you probably 
have something to just like it but you 
know where I have like what I want in a 
love relationship and it's just a short 
sheet where I know you already do this 
but I'm just getting very clear with 
people on what their standards are what 
is the thing that makes you feel safe 
makes you feel secure how is what is 
this person saying to you how do they 
act with you you need to feel secure in 
yourself obviously first but to really 
get clear I can't tell you how many 
people I have who just aren't really 
clear um what it is they really need 
they they know all kinds of things they 
want but they don't know what they 
really need what is that thing for you I 
call it your deal breaker you know 
you're that that that thing at the 
bottom of it all and for me it's the 
team like you've got my back no matter 
even when you don't agree with me and 
especially in public for me like if 
we're ever out and you know you disagree 
with something I'm saying or something 
else that you don't or if someone's uh 
I've been situations were you know 
someone from another couple was teasing 
me and like Gary did not play that game 
do you know what I mean he was not like 
he's not GNA pile on yeah no you know in 
a million years or my mother has had 
said some off com you know things to me 
some icky things and Gary's like I don't 
know what you're talking about like just 
shut it down like that's a person that 
always has my back right and maybe later 
he'll say to me you know I didn't love 
this or that or you know I you know how 
could we do that different next time 
time or whatever but never in the moment 
never in the in that and that's that 
feeling for me all else can go away all 
else can be gone that's what I need 
because then I'm good I can be 
vulnerable I can put all myself out 
there and the there are other nice 
things Gary does happen to be 64 and has 
a gray body like it's all very nice you 
know but I need that other stuff so what 
do you need that's what I have that like 
what do you need not what do you want 
what do you need and do people have a 
hard time answering yes very much which 
is why I have a little worksheet for it 
because no one I usually ask questions 
like when 
you by under identifying what what 
really has been a deal deal breaker the 
other way for you you can often identify 
what you need so I'll say to people when 
you have when you have left a 
relationship in the past or when you 
have left a job sometimes it's a job 
even if you didn't quite leave that day 
or mov your stuff out that day what was 
it that was like the straw that broke 
the camel's back you know what was it 
that was the thing that you thought no I 
can't do this another day do you know 
there's something there's always a 
there's something point exactly and when 
you know what that is you can often just 
have the opposite it's the reciprocal of 
that exactly so for me it's ever a 
feeling of being betrayed in some way 
like you know some feel feeling of being 
you know when I did the worksheet for 
myself it was like oh if I feel betrayed 
like you don't you know and I was able 
to come up with the words like oh you 
don't have my 
back and it's like oh that's what I need 
right so you can do it the inverse way 
too that's true I was thinking about a 
relationship I was in on and off again 
you know when I was younger before I was 
married and what was the deal breaker it 
was you lied to me oh there you go 
done and that was it that was it never 
look back see never look back honesty is 
really important yep and I will tell you 
with honesty I always tell it's 
interesting when we break 
down when we break down trust right the 
the concept of trust from in the 
research what we find is that there's 
three things that make up how we trust 
someone and that is Goodwill so in other 
words that that we think they have our 
best interest at 
heart integrity that's the honesty piece 
that they are honest that they they uh 
they say something and that's what it is 
and always remember it's also honesty 
with feelings you know that someone 
doesn't say you know are you okay oh I'm 
fine no you're not so now I can't trust 
you and now next week when you tell me 
I'm beautiful do I trust that too I 
don't I don't trust that because you 
don't tell the truth uh and then the 
third thing is competence are you 
competent in do you fall through on what 
you say you're going to do do you finish 
things do you uh keep keep a job do you 
uh show up for your friends when you say 
you're going to you know are you 
competent in the world those are the 
three things so it's interesting I have 
people sometimes I'll say oh you don't 
trust you don't trust this guy they yes 
I do because they're thinking of like 
cheating like a lot of times we'll trust 
someone not to cheat on us right we 
don't think that's going to happen so we 
think we trust them and we're doubting 
our feelings we're doubting we're like 
well I don't know it's just something we 
can't like name it and again this is a 
good way when you can break down trust 
into the three I call the trust Triad 
because I like little Snappy terms for 
things um but then you I'll say to them 
okay so you trust that they're honest 
with you but what about this confidence 
piece like when you say oh we're going 
to go out to dinner with the Smiths on 
Friday do they show up do they remember 
when you say oh you know your kid has 
piano lessons do they do they like take 
that on do they remember do they are 
they competent to be your partner you 
know can they show up in the way you 
need or is it this Goodwill piece that 
they're looking out for themselves more 
than they're looking out for you you 
know do you factor in the equation and 
that I think helps a lot of people that 
I've you know in my years of doing this 
really helps people go oh it also help 
helps in a relationship because if you 
just tell someone I don't trust you 
people get very what do you mean I would 
never cheat on you that's usually what 
happens or or they you trust them with 
your money or something like that that 
okay that's nice but what's missing here 
and that's what you want to talk about 
again get to what you need not what you 
want right because it sets people off on 
the wrong in the wrong 
place no I love that I mean we do this 
trans formative exercise with people to 
help them get into the dating world and 
prioritize the right thing and one part 
of it is who are the people in your life 
that make you happiest we call them 
elevator people that's our trademark who 
elevates you and this and we have a way 
of 
elucidating that in a certain way and 
that then comprises the new list of 
people now that's great when in the 
dating world right you have this list 
like great yeah absolutely but then most 
people go off and do what they did 
yesterday and Thursday and 10 years ago 
right so our job through the process is 
to guide them to say does this person is 
this person in alignment yes an elevator 
person for you and that's what most 
people don't realize because we go back 
to Buddy's 6'4 and he's jacked and he 
makes 
$500,000 and we went to Harvard and 
it's like how'd that work out for you 
over the last three boyfriends yep yep 
you and you I love this and you know 
what's so key here is this 
idea like my Gary who is so wonderful 
he's the best Gary is from like Upstate 
New York where um and is very like uh 
how do I explain Gary's like Mr 
wholesome you know and I'm you know and 
he he he's very to exercise I'm always 
in stilettos I don't want to exercise 
unless I have to you know held it 
gunpoint you know which I do every day 
but I don't want to I'm a foodie like 
you don't even know I am like so I am a 
chef my dad was a chef I cook Gary will 
eat five things maybe like could take a 
pill every day and not eat we don't have 
I love to read he doesn't you know I I 
mean I could go on and on we don't he 
didn't he was in the Navy I went to you 
know I leave school like we when on 
paper there's zero I mean there's zero 
there's not and so this idea that you 
have to all these things in common and 
we have to like go do all the same 
things and the same pedigree comp the 
same 
P we we got nothing our backgrounds with 
our families his family had more money 
than me like there's nothing there's 
really nothing and yet we work so so 
well anyone in the room with us is 
always like um get a room you got you 
know like we still just are so into each 
other all these years later and and my 
ex-husband which is so funny it was a 
hippie like a total hippie I would meet 
his ex-girlfriends they were all blonde 
blue-eyed named Heather taught yoga you 
know like do not look like me I was like 
how did this happen you know and but 
because if you just go with this idea of 
who you're supposed to be with or having 
all these things in common what you have 
to have in common for sure are your 
values you know I think your humor is 
the number one thing you have to have in 
common like this sort of the same sense 
of humor and this ability to want to 
have fun but mostly you have to 
want love to be first you both have to 
be going towards that this idea of like 
this Allin this vulnerability this we're 
a team when you have that so I go on the 
Spartan Race you know likes these 
Spartan races you know I go to them with 
him I travel I work in my the hotel room 
on my laptop but you know I fill the 
bathtub with ice when he comes back and 
I I talk about the races which is you 
know not something I want to talk about 
and but I've found a way to make it 
interesting for myself and I get into it 
and you know I talk about the different 
kinds and like I'm like an expert on 
Spartan if anybody wants you know but 
like but I don't do them do you know 
what I mean stilettos I I thank you I I 
I like the nails everything like no so 
but it's okay we can you know and I'm 
always cooking and making the stuff he 
doesn't care he doesn't want to eat it 
like he literally I doesn't eat half my 
food and it's really okay like nowhere 
on my list of the perfect guy did it say 
has to eat the kind of food I like and I 
have girlfriends who ask they're like oh 
don't you miss going out to nice 
restaurants I'm like I go out with 
friends to nice restaurants like I do it 
or he'll come along he's so sweet and he 
just won't eat he'll like hang out with 
me he'll get himself a beer he'll like 
we're fine we are fine because we could 
talk all night you know so do you know 
what I mean get rid of this idea of what 
the checklist is or really look at your 
checklist and make 
sure that it's it's not I think people 
rely on the things in common thing 
because they don't have anything else 
they don't know what to do we're never 
to do 
right we think common interest common 
culture common religion reduces friction 
right and that's you know a wisdom of 
Ages and generations like marry if 
you're Jewish marry someone Jewish marry 
someone Indian it just makes it easier 
right but does it yeah there's other 
things that make it easier yep it's not 
that stuff it's really true it's really 
true and you do have to find a place to 
agree on things and you could never be 
with someone 
who both both my men were not Jewish 
like me so you know we had to agree on 
stuff how do we want to raise the kids 
what do we want do we have a Christmas 
tree in the house like what we had to 
agree on 
things that's part of the conversations 
you have by the way before you get 
married right I can't tell you how many 
people I have who get married and then 
start to have these conversations but 
and and no you don't have to have them 
on the first date because the other 
thing that happens is that as you get to 
know know someone cuz I have clients 
they'll say well I just need him to know 
he's Jewish my first dat if he's not 
then I he needs to know we have to raise 
our kids Jewish and I'm like you don't 
even know what you're going to want if 
you fall deeply in love with 
someone I would have said that too like 
my kids have to be raised you know like 
without a doubt this is what I need and 
if I had had that conversation too early 
I never would have had my children with 
my their dad because he would have been 
like no you know and but we found such a 
great way to raise them together you 
know when you're in love and you start 
to work towards stuff and you really get 
to know each other and the why behind it 
well why is Judaism important to you 
tell me more about your religion tell me 
more about what works and what doesn't 
you know you start to have Rich 
beautiful conversations and from there 
you figure out what the next thing is 
100% And so don't get into that first 
like well I'm only going to date X Y or 
Z because I know you don't know you 
don't don't know yeah you don't know 
love it 100% I agree with you I'm grew 
up child of Indian immigrants 
everybody's like your husband's Indian 
right because they assume that I'm like 
he's so white he's pink right I mean no 
he's 
completely unexpected package right this 
is when I tell everyone if you are 
looking for the things that matter to 
you love can come in a totally different 
package than you anticipate yes yes yes 
yes and it always does and see look how 
the RS Works in that situation look how 
your 40 versus 11 million bits Works in 
that situation when you realize that you 
could open that up right that that 
mindset now your subconscious is isn't 
only looking for guys at Temple or 
mosque or wherever right they're also 
looking for them you are noticing the 
man at Starbucks who might have opened 
your door you know you are noticing 
maybe the guy that took the ticket for 
your car when you're going to pick it up 
you'll start to notice different people 
they'll start to come into your your you 
know into your view and you you might 
think oh I don't know if I could date a 
guy who Parks cars maybe he's finishing 
his medical degree doing that you don't 
know so if you just write them off or 
maybe he's not but he's like the 
greatest guy ever who's going to be so 
treat you like gold and maybe you'll 
make the money I don't know like there's 
so many things that could happen when 
you're open and willing but when again 
but understanding what you really need 
amen it's not anyone it's this it's this 
I love that and let's talk about 
boundaries I love boundaries okay go 
tell us about boundaries boundaries Made 
Easy is your new book tell us about what 
what does a boundary mean yes okay 
because I think we bastardized this word 
all over the place and I find I'll go on 
my 30 second rant the word boundaries 
sometimes I feel like it gives people 
license to be an [ __ ] because they're 
like well that's a boundary so I'm gonna 
say blah I'm like but that's not okay 
that's not a boundary right let's you're 
right oh my God you're so good so what I 
find is that people do that they'll say 
I have a boundary that you're that you 
know no one can say X or Y to me or I 
have you know or I told my mother I 
don't like how she's speaking to me I 
drew a 
boundary none of those are boundaries 
those are things you'd like things you'd 
like I'd like my mother to talk 
differently to me I would like you not 
to you know uh call me a name I don't 
know uh whatever it is those are just 
things you want and so that's number one 
get rid of that what a bound a boundary 
really is when you take full 
responsibility for your thoughts 
feelings and emotions and no 
responsibility for someone else thoughts 
feelings or emotions that's number one 
so most people walk through life I say 
with so much love but as victims this 
guy he trampled my boundaries well if 
you had a real boundary he couldn't have 
trampled them you would have said no 
because a real boundary is so you think 
again it's so it's very connected to 
this and I do it in the book where I I 
have you really get to what your deal 
breakers are oh I can't wait to read 
this book I'm I'm really proud of the 
book uh you get to what your real deal 
breakers are and when you're there like 
uh I have a boundary that um my partner 
uh always has my back right that's a 
boundary but that's not even a boundary 
yet that's a standard now that's a 
standard you have you have a standard 
that people treat you with respect you 
have a standard that people are honest 
with you standard the boundary is when 
you add teeth the boundary is when you 
add what you are going to do if this 
standard isn't met by another person 
that's a boundary and most and 99.9% of 
people have no I don't want to say 
consequence because you're not punishing 
people but a response that you're going 
to have some sort of teeth on the other 
side I recently had a client who had 
told her family not she lost a lot of 
weight and she sent an email we worked 
on this to her family say is a large 
Italian family back East do not talk 
about my weight I don't want to talk 
about my weight or my food I'm just I 
there's so many things I would love to 
talk to you about and this is not one of 
them so please don't comment or I'm 
Gonna Leave This was uh Memorial Day or 
I'm going to need to I'm just not going 
to stay like I I don't want to have this 
and sure enough she she and she sent an 
extra text to her brother who she just 
knew was going to and the boundary I'm 
really serious about this I'm just 
letting you know so when she went sure 
enough about 15 minutes in the brother 
said something and she said she said 
I've I was very clear with you not to 
talk about my weight and and he said oh 
my gosh I'm so sorry you know not really 
sorry right uh oh I'm sorry I forgot how 
sensitive you are about that You Know M 
I know and she said no worries you know 
what we'll just try this again another 
time picked up her bag and walked out in 
the most loving clear way because 
boundaries are love boundaries are love 
if you otherwise you have a wall that's 
how you know the difference a wall is 
fear-based a wall is meant to keep 
people out a boundary is meant to keep 
people in she loves her brother she 
wants to figure out a way that they can 
all be together but not this here's what 
usually happens you would say that all 
You' do so good right your brother would 
say the stupid thing and you would go 
and he would apologize and you were like 
all right don't do it again though right 
that's that's what I would do uhuh 
because now you've collapsed your 
boundary now because they're apologizing 
and acting quote unquote nice you are 
going to be nice and collapse your 
boundary because you've already said 
what's going to happen if they do it so 
now they've done it so so you know what 
happens maybe an hour later your brother 
says another thing about your weight or 
the next time you guys sit down or the 
or when you're now eating are you going 
to have a second help what are you 
eating on this diet of yours they're 
going to say something because you 
haven't held your 
boundary and she it's so cute because 
she texted me after which my clients 
don't normally text me but you know I 
always say if there's something real big 
you know and she said I'm so proud she 
said I feel so 
empowered I don't hate my brother right 
now which normally you feel resentful 
right which by the way is not loving to 
feel so resentful to people because they 
did this thing to you it it is not their 
job to hold your boundary it's yours and 
this is the hardest thing for people to 
get I I understand it's very nice when 
people respect our pound trees but if 
you don't respect them how do you expect 
other people to respect them they will 
not so when and she again did it so we 
had rehearsed it you know I said I said 
to her what are you do we role played it 
and she did she goes you know what we'll 
have to try this another time she didn't 
make a big thing she didn't make a big 
fuss she just you know she didn't like 
say goodbye to everybody I have to leave 
cuz you know Roberto said something 
about my weight you know she didn't do 
anything she just left and she said she 
sent a little email later to everybody 
like hey not sorry I left early she 
didn't 
apologize she said hey I left early 
Roberto and I you know had trouble with 
the boundary we're going to try again 
next time just to remind to everybody 
I'm looking forward to seeing you all on 
July 4th because they have a thing 
planned July 4th it's a very close 
family and she's like we'll see what 
happens wow and there it is and there it 
is this that those are boundaries that 
is how you keep a boundary that is how 
you do that but this idea that you tell 
people things don't talk to me that way 
I'm have a boundary with you that you're 
not allowed to speak this way means 
nothing and by the way what is this way 
you know the boundary again needs to be 
very clear around the kind of language 
and so I always say don't repeat a 
boundary never repeat it never repeat 
it like never so if you say it once this 
is that's why I say this over and over 
because people don't hear they think 
they well I have to give them a warning 
it's like no you don't if you've already 
told them what to if you've already told 
them sometimes we don't always announce 
our boundaries right so you might be 
somewhere and someone starts to in this 
instance maybe me mentioned something 
about her food or something and she or 
her weight and she could just say you 
know what I'm really not comfortable 
talking about my weight my favorite 
shift by the way is to say to someone I 
have a brother who likes to talk to me 
about politics and we do not agree on 
politics remotely but he likes to try to 
convince me that he's right and so we 
love him so when he does this what I say 
I go I say his name and I say I have a 
few of them so no one knows no brother 
knows who it is 
uh I say his name and I go there are so 
many things I'm so excited to talk to 
you about this is not one of them and I 
just jump into a new topic how are the 
kids oh my God let me tell you what Max 
did in baseball the other day what I 
just I just go with whatever I want to 
talk 
about and people love it they get it 
they really do they're they're they want 
to connect with you so they will shift 
so if you're on a date and someone 
starts to ask a question and you don't 
like it or you don't like where it's 
going you can say that like you can just 
say you know what I you know we're kind 
of early on I'm not going to talk about 
what my divorce yet um you know if we 
get a little farther along we will but 
there's a lot of things I would like you 
to know about me exactly and there's a 
lot of things I would like to know about 
you so let's jump in and if that person 
couldn't handle that on like a first 
second or third date I would say they're 
not for you anyway and why are they 
probing into something not appropriate 
the first make a connection make a 
connection you here's what happens a lot 
someone else has poor boundaries with us 
or maybe maybe this person you're on a 
date with is talking all about their 
ex right it's the same thing when you 
see poor boundaries coming at you their 
poor boundaries coming at you uh we call 
this uh inment but when you see and I'll 
talk about that in a second when you see 
that coming at you again it's a good 
time to go you know what I'm going to 
stop you there very nicely openly 
beautiful heart you know 
lovingly you know I'm going to stop you 
there I I'm not sure I'm in a place yet 
to hear about your exes but I would love 
to hear about why and then just go don't 
you don't have to wait for what you I 
would love to hear more about your work 
or tell me more about you know uh what 
your favorite I don't know what was your 
favorite birthday I I don't care 
anything anything else you know anything 
else so you're allowed to steer the 
conversation and what happens with 
boundaries I put them on a Continuum of 
thin to thick so the thin boundaries are 
are where we have extreme kind of in 
mment No Boundaries you know when people 
are talking about their sex lives right 
away by the way if you're getting like a 
dick pick you know first day like these 
no like this is too thin the boundaries 
are too thin this person is showing you 
talk about your red flags red flags are 
poor boundaries it's the same thing so 
you're getting this information and 
you're getting the ick or whatever that 
boundar is too thin when they tell you 
too much about their past too soon 
whatever it is right that's it's a too 
thin boundary codependence lives there 
in meshman all that but we tend to think 
of this as nice being nice to people and 
that's a big problem especially for 
women who always think we have to be 
nice the other end of the boundary 
Continuum are boundaries that are too 
thick like if you ever called your dad 
sir that's a pretty thick boundary you 
know what I mean like you know right 
people do you know when boundaries are 
thick is when and here's what happens 
you have a boundary someone doesn't 
respect it and you go too thick you slam 
the door you unfollow them you block 
them I'm never speaking to you again I'm 
and I really don't like the cut offs in 
that way because boundaries are a skill 
and you have to practice them and you're 
not practicing when you cut someone off 
nor now granted if someone is super 
toxic or abusive that's fine Lo and 
delete but that's not normal that's not 
common so what happens is you get too 
thin I see it all the time and maybe 
you've said something too soon or you 
know you put yourself out there a little 
vulnerably and they haven't gotten back 
and you start to feel rejected and 
abandoned those are always the two as 
you know and then you immediately go to 
F you you know this oh oh this guy can't 
even feel feelings it's like whoa whoa 
whoa whoa maybe you were maybe you were 
going a little fast there maybe maybe or 
maybe you weren't even fast but they're 
slower yeah and that's okay to right and 
I the biggie here is to remember that 
there's preferences not right or wrong 
that's right it yep it's not right to 
want more sex and it's not right to want 
less sex not right to want to celebrate 
Christmas and it's not wrong to want to 
celebrate Hanukkah you know there's no 
right or wrong there's preferences I 
like to have sex four times a week and I 
like to have sex sex twice a week so 
what does that mean you know I like to 
talk about all my feelings you know real 
like right away that's how I get to know 
people oh I'm someone who doesn't do 
that so and I find we do it a lot 
especially with introverts you know 
people are more introverted I should say 
when they lean more that way they're 
often seen as well you should get out 
more you know try this try like like 
it's a something you got to cure you 
know being more in there's nothing wrong 
with it it's a it's a it's a it's a 
preference it's a way of being now if 
you're so introverted again like way on 
the other end that you are so socially 
anxious that then that's something that 
should be treated for sure for sure 
right super shyness that's not the same 
as introversion that's the same as 
social anxiety so that that should be 
treated but but when I have a client who 
comes to me and say oh I'm too 
introverted and I'm not dating and it's 
hard to meet people I'm likew let's talk 
first you know let let's let's get in 
there and see and I and I know you do 
that right let's see what that is and on 
the same scale if someone is too 
extroverted like way on the other end of 
that Continuum what are you doing like 
what would it be to be quieter what 
would it be to wait and make room for 
someone else to talk what would it be if 
you weren't in the center how does that 
feel 
on the side a little bit what is that 
like you know and you start to have 
these conversations with people and they 
start to really understand themselves 
it's so beautiful so if you can go into 
a relationship like that not thinking 
you're wrong and notice keep a boundary 
if someone says something on a date like 
well I've never dated anybody so 
introverted before or something or you 
know you can stop them and go oh well 
what is uh what is introverted for you 
ask a question what yeah what does that 
mean when you say that tell me more 
about why you think I am yeah exactly 
tell me more tell me more is my favorite 
you know I always with my clients the 
story I'm telling myself 
is you don't like introverts or is this 
a story that I'm telling myself yes 
right and so give the other person the 
benefit of the doubt Y and then let them 
answer the question this question has 
been gamechanging in our he even like 
the story I'm telling myself versus like 
rushing to make a judgment on something 
that just happened right it's like okay 
I have a standard I love the way you've 
pouched these terms and so it could feel 
like something someone did or said 
violated that but the first thing I'll 
do is if it's not 
clear because I want to have good 
relationships with the people in my 
house and I want to be given the benefit 
of the doubt as well because they may be 
in that mode where they're looking at 
everything negatively because they've 
had a bad day it's like hold on a second 
that's not what I intended that's not 
what I said right so the story I'm 
telling myself is blah blah blah Y is 
that is that on or am I off 
track oh my God I love I love it I love 
it so much and and I'm gonna actually 
segue into maybe this last little thing 
like this nugget for people to take away 
I I talk a lot about not sacking your I 
don't sack any conversation or 
relationship and sa don't offer 
suggestions give advice or 
criticize so if you went on any 
date and didn't offer a suggest any 
advice any criticism because it's a 
criticism to tell someone they're to 
something that's a criticism like you're 
judging it you know you're you're 
judging what it is and most people say 
go well what's left Abby like I don't 
even know how to have a conversation now 
uh and it's asking questions and I call 
them collaborative questions you know so 
that's what you know tell me more about 
or um you know uh tell you know tell me 
more about like this day in your life or 
what you know what are you thinking when 
you're telling me that you ex what do 
you mean by that you know the story I 
tell myself about that is XYZ tell me 
more about what you're saying when you 
say that can you clarify that can you 
like asking questions it's such I try to 
do it with my kids even you know where I 
just my teenagers that's hard try to 
just be in asking questions because 
we're so used to just saying the thing 
and I would say especially with my male 
clients this is a really hard thing to 
do men are very used to G I say with 
love men very used to giving their 
opinion very used to without being asked 
without any you know anything they sack 
they sack all the time and so what I 
tell women and what I've had to train 
the men in my life to do is I'll stop 
and go you know what I you're coming at 
me with uh some what I'm seeing as 
advice or criticism and like well I'm 
not trying to criticize I'm just trying 
to 
help it's like well it's not being 
received as help so but could you ask me 
a question could you help maybe we could 
brainstorm you know and maybe you could 
ask me more questions to understand what 
I'm trying to say or you know and I 
encourage the people around me to ask 
these questions instead of you know 
that's and that's a boundary in it but 
it's really more of like a rule of being 
we have a lot of rules of being and 
those are good save the boundaries for 
something else it's it's not a boundary 
that he has to put away the dishes as 
much as you that's just like a rule of 
the household do you know what I mean 
and I would even say again don't keep 
score it's no one's turn to put away the 
dishes if it a turn you take turning 
games 
like put away the bigon dishes you know 
and again are you getting the other 
things you need because when you are 
these kinds of things you you will find 
you just don't care you don't care you 
don't care oh I want to continue this 
conversation for another eight hours 
like this is so fun so Abby tell people 
where they can get more you get more of 
me uh you know really it's the website 
which I know you'll link to ABY med.com 
and the um relationships Made Easy 
podcast that I have which is really um 
evidence-based approaches to being happy 
in your life in whatever way that is 
there's like one coming out this week on 
how to stop ruminating and negative 
thinking you know and there's always 
action tips and that kind of thing so uh 
yeah so go there and the website all 
links to my social media my YouTube 
channel all the things are are housed on 
my little my cute little website well 
I've Loved this conversation and I would 
love to have you back on the podcast I 
would love to be 
back well thank you smart daters until 
the next episode I wish you a week of 
thoughtful reflection and thinking about 
your beliefs what are they and are you 
putting is your conscious 
putting bad thoughts into your 
subconscious and so you're seeing the 
world in a way that you don't want to 
see the world and you're experiencing 
the world in a way that you don't want 
to experience the world and think about 
what you need in your relationships 
right what are your deal breakers what 
are your have to haves and think about 
this because when you think about this 
and you take a moment to sit down and do 
that reflection like Abby said that's 
when things start to change because you 
have said stop the madness I need to sit 
down and not just get back into the 
dating pool and do the same thing over 
and over again so that is my ending 
monologue for you and until we see you 
next 
time thank you so much a thank you for 
having me 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome to the Tuesday episode of a five 
episode week in honor to in order to 
honor you and honor Peak dating season 
so let's jump right into it it's me solo 
again today and we're going to talk 
about how do you date multiple people at 
one time okay so if you've been 
following Smart dating Academy which I 
hope you guys have we're almost at our 
oneyear anniversary of this beautiful 
podcast and we're on episode I don't 
know 52 or so but the question is let's 
let's talk about this and take a step 
back how do you create a dating funnel 
why should you have a dating funnel and 
why should you not only do one and done 
dating right so what is a dating funnel 
for those of you who don't know maybe 
you've been hiding under a rock since 
you haven't been following us a dating 
funnel is 
having multiple people to choose from I 
call it a funnel because like a funnel 
it's wide at the top and then as you get 
narrower and narrower down kind of into 
the funnel it gets narrower and then 
ultimately it funnels the liquid into a 
out of a small small orifice right and 
dating is the same way you've got many 
people at the top which make it a funnel 
and then you're going to sift people in 
sift people out mainly more people out 
because 99% of people are not right for 
us so we sift people out bring more 
people in and then ultimately we narrow 
it down to maybe our top three top two 
and then ultimately our top one right so 
that's what a dating funnel is you want 
to always have multiple dating options 
until you have someone that you want to 
be exclusive with okay now let me tell 
you the reasons why you might be raising 
your eyebrows going well why should I 
have a dating funnel I I can't even 
imagine dating more than one person at 
one time maybe you're a serial 
monogamist and you've only been in 
long-term relationships maybe you're 
coming out of a very long marriage and 
this is your first for into the dating 
World maybe you had the love of your 
life and you lost them prematurely and 
now you're headed back into the dating 
world again and the thought of dating 
more than one person just seems so crazy 
to you but let me tell you not having a 
dating funnel not dating multiple people 
at one time is one of the biggest 
mistakes you can make as you enter the 
dating world ever as you enter 2023 as a 
smart dater right now why should we be 
doing this okay dating has changed it's 
not like it was 25 30 years ago right 
people everybody's using technology 
everybody that's dating seriously is 
using dating apps right and you as a 
smart dater are definitely going to be 
on the dating apps because you know we 
are now in the midst of peak dating 
season yesterday December 26 online 
dating numbers started to spike 50 to 
80% so much so that Sunday January 8th 
is going to be the busiest online dating 
dat of the year right so as you're 
thinking about this just know it's a big 
mistake to just oneandone date and it's 
a mistake to assume that people that 
you're talking to and dating in your 
dating funnel they're doing the same as 
you are they're dating other people as 
well nobody is exclusive you guys until 
we have the conversation we are 
exclusive with each other exclusive does 
not mean I'm not dating anybody else 
right now because that allows the door 
to be kicked right open exclusive means 
I don't want to date anybody else except 
you because I think you're the lid to my 
pot I want to shut down my dating apps I 
want to date you and only you because I 
think you're amazing maybe that's the 
point where you'll consider putting a 
title on it this is my boyfriend this is 
my girlfriend this is my partner 
whatever you want to call this person 
but they should have a title in your 
head and not just be the person you're 
dating person you're talking to this is 
the person you're exclusive with right 
and so this should be done over a slow 
period of time okay and now why have a 
dating funnel let me ask let me tell you 
this if you came into let's say you know 
your aunt Susie passed away and Aunt 
Susie was a you know a multi-millionaire 
and Aunt Susie left you $20 million and 
you had no idea where to invest it would 
you listen to a tip that came from your 
neighbor saying invest it all in Bitcoin 
like invest it all in crypto or invest 
it all in Amazon you wouldn't take all 
that money dear friend and put it in one 
stock would you no you wouldn't this is 
like any smart investor would do you 
would 
diversify all that cash across different 
asset classes right maybe you keep some 
in cash you put some in stocks you'd put 
some in bonds you'd put some in maybe 
more risky things if you're younger 
maybe you want want to help fund a 
startup company right you maybe you want 
to give some to a nonprofit whatever it 
is but you wouldn't take all that money 
and put it into One Singular thing right 
you would diversify and make sure that 
that money returned when something goes 
up something goes down okay and that's 
when you've heard me say before dating 
is like a horse race you've got to have 
multiple horses to make it a race 
because you are the prize it's not one 
and done and so many of us want to one 
and done date right because we just get 
dating fatigued but what I'm telling you 
is until you've been out on 15 plus 
dates with one person over 3 to four 
months slowly with multiple people in 
your funnel don't lock it down and don't 
get exclusive with somebody right you 
can listen to our previous episodes on 
how Sylvia Found Love and you know pre 
we preach sex exclusivity and she didn't 
sleep with them or get exclusive until 
after 15 dayses so there's so so much 
good information in this podcast and I 
promise that these would be short little 
mini episodes so have a dating funnel 
right and why do you want to do that 
besides having diversification you want 
to do it because if one person that 
you're dating flakes goost to you it 
doesn't hurt as much if you've got 
multiple people in your funnel right 
that's just keeping yourself on the up 
and up and protecting your heart from 
getting hurt um you want to make sure 
that you don't ignore red flag right 
especially if we've had a bad picker 
we're prone to picking bad people one 
andone dating is often the kiss of death 
for us remember second marriage is 
divorce at the rate of 67% because we 
pick the same person over and over again 
we pick people we're comfortable with 
people that feel familiar to us so don't 
do that if you've only got one option 
you're going to tend to settle you're 
going to tend to sweep red flags under 
the rug and you're going to pick the 
wrong person again right and now if one 
person says to you if somebody says to 
you while you're dating hey are you 
dating other people you can just smile 
sweetly at them in response to this 
remember people need to earn your story 
what can you say you can say you know 
what on occasion what makes you ask 
right answer a question with a smile and 
bounce the question right back to them 
you don't have to tell them well I've 
been listening to this dating podcast 
and it says you have to have a dating 
funnel you don't have to reveal anything 
you don't want to right you can say on 
occasion what makes you ask okay and 
that's enough and just assume that 
everybody is dating multiple people just 
because you're talking to one person 
doesn't mean that they've shut their 
dating apps down just because you've 
been on five good dates with somebody 
doesn't mean that they're not dating 
other people okay and now if you need to 
create a dating funnel you need to have 
great photos you need to have a really 
good profile you need to know what apps 
listen to yesterday's episode about what 
the best dating apps are for 2023 if 
you're catching up and you need to have 
a dating strategy now if you don't have 
great photos you don't have a great 
profile you don't think you can manage 
dating funnel and you want more close 
one-on-one information from us about it 
join the online dating love lab that 
we're hosting on Sunday January 8th 
which is the busiest online dating day 
of the year by the end of that episode 
you will know which one your best photos 
are you might even have a perfectly 
written profile if you do your homework 
because I send you our exclusive online 
profile workbook to write the perfect 
profiles you could be on your way to 
finding the love of your life in 2023 so 
join the online dating love La by 
clicking the link in the show notes and 
I can't wait to see you there until 
tomorrow where we're going to be talking 
about how you tell if someone is a 
player stay tuned I'll see you soon big 
love to you and hopefully see you on 
January 8th at the online dating love 
lab 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm bellagande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back I am 
elated honored delighted jumping out of 
my skin as I normally am with pink 
sparkle floating everywhere right now 
because today I'm bringing on the 
amazing the one and only Sherry Salata 
and I know for those of you guys who 
have followed us for a long time you've 
heard me Sherry this Sherry that 
Sherry's amazing and so now Sherry is 
here to talk to us about her own Journey 
as a woman as a very professional Woman 
as a high octane woman who is now a 
transformational doula and has her own 
company but wait for it spent 20 years 
in the world of Oprah one let's just say 
when Oprah was Oprah when everybody in 
the world wanted to sit on that couch 
Sherry was The Wizard Of The Wizard of 
Oz and so Sherry thank you for being 
here with us hello we should tell 
everybody Bella and I are friends we're 
we're real close I was not The Wizard of 
Oz Bella I know I like to brag on my 
friends too but um you know I was an 
amazing team and a once in a lifetime 
ride and it set me up it set me up for 
my life now and I'm I'm so 
Beyond appreciative that I had that 
crazy crazy all-consuming experience 
I mean I can't even imagine what that 
was like behind the scenes of that show 
I've been behind the scenes of many 
shows and seen a little bit of the 
Dynamics but that was like the show of 
show of shows of our lifetime 
that was you know it's almost like 
there was so much Divinity in that so 
much Divine coming together everybody 
was there for a reason to make their 
contribution the the the the women of 
the world at that moment in time asked 
for support asked to be seen and boom 
next thing you know there was it and 
it's kind of the older days in Media 
you know there wasn't a big 5 000 cable 
channels and streaming and no no and all 
that so it was just like who can like 
can I turn on a channel and listen to 
something that makes me feel better and 
that really was the Oprah show it really 
had 
um it was on a Divine mission 
so it was great and hard and crazy all 
of it 
and Sharon and I were reminiscing before 
we turned the microphones on we are 
great friends dear friends and have been 
for years and we were actually the first 
person that connected me to share to 
Sherry was my friend Debbie Phillips of 
women on fire and Sherry's great friends 
with Debbie and I am and Debbie just 
said oh Bella Sherry gave an amazing 
keynote at the women on Fire Conference 
I think you two need to know each other 
and when Debbie gave me the little 
booklet because she used to do these fun 
books about like every person that came 
to a conference in their interview and I 
remember reading your story and thinking 
I love the Moxie from this girl from 
Waukegan Illinois because little fact 
known Sherry and I were both born in 
Waukegan Illinois up near the Wisconsin 
border but Sherry tell us how did you 
get your foot in the door at the Oprah 
show because this is just a story 
Instagram it's the craziest well you 
know what it is is the story of it's the 
story of the girl who is not in 
alignment who wanted so much and just 
kept going about it the hard way and so 
um I actually went to the University of 
Iowa as a lot of Chicago area people do 
and graduated with no plan in place of 
course I was going to be a doctor then a 
lawyer then of this then a that so 
finally the truth is I um in my late 20s 
I finally got a big break 
after having a myriad of different jobs 
and a a great guy taught me how to be an 
executive producer he taught me how to 
produce but we were doing advertising 
television commercials and so I applied 
at that Oprah Show thinking I think I'd 
really like to do that and I got 
rejected and it was a few years later 
than when I got a um a message on my 
answering machine that 
um hey we were cleaning out a closet we 
found your reel in your resume will you 
come in and freelance and I was 35 Bella 
oh my God 35 I was broke I was depressed 
I was like I'm never gonna have the life 
of my dreams or the job of my dreams and 
you know I give it to myself I just 
would not give up 
I was not going to sell out I would not 
give up I knew that my work was supposed 
to be a mission and I knew it was 
supposed to be take all of me and I knew 
it was supposed to be really fun and 
really exciting and so I hung in there 
until I until the door opened oh my gosh 
and now you said you wanted to be a 
doctor and all kinds of things was being 
a TV producer was that ever in your your 
potential bailiwick of ideas or no no no 
it wasn't it should have been because 
you know I was putting on plays with my 
little cousins as my cast and you know 
making the aunts and uncles be the 
audience and I was doing I was producing 
from my earliest memory but I didn't 
even think that was a thing like I 
wasn't connected I wasn't hooked up I 
didn't know anybody who knew anybody 
um I wasn't to the manor born as they 
say 
um and so I just thought it was out of 
my graph but I did want to be something 
which is why the doctor thing and then 
the lawyer thing I'm like that's 
something that's that's you've got a 
nice briefcase and you wear a nice 
little suit to work and you know I was 
I was on a search on a search for what 
is who am I supposed to be and what am I 
supposed to do 
wow and Along Comes this opportunity and 
now you're working at the advertising 
company you get this real from or and 
they find you real and they're like do 
you want to come in and so what do you 
do 
yeah well I actually was freelancing by 
that time and I was out of money and so 
what did I do when I read it was an 
actual on an actual answering machine 
with tape 
send that to them 
oh yeah the Smithsonian I wish I still 
had it for a while there I had the 
resume that had a woman named Harriet 
seitler from Highland Park had come in 
and taken over his creative Services 
director and she she had very high she 
had great taste and she didn't she 
didn't want to bring in another local TV 
person she goes you know let's look and 
find an advertising producer to come in 
and by the grace of God my reel was 
there and uh you know and then and so it 
began 
wow and and how tell us about your 
ascendancy 
yeah I mean 
there was no pus let me just put it this 
way 
there was no possibility that I was 
gonna ever be the executive producer or 
I was ever going to be a senior producer 
on the show that the structure wasn't 
made like that I was in the basement in 
the promo department and maybe I could 
become a senior promo producer but that 
was going to be it there there wasn't a 
lot of crossover between support 
departments and the the production team 
that actually did the show so there was 
no way no chance 
so nobody is more surprised than me than 
any of this took place at all and I will 
tell you they were all shocked as well 
so uh you know it's again there's so 
much about the experience 
you know from in a global view which is 
you know divine order that this must 
have been a little piece of that too 
because it shouldn't have happened I 
never thought it would happen and then 
and but it did 
wow and the girl from the basement 
became the girl with the corner office 
yes 
yes amazing a little hard work a little 
hustle and you know if I can ask you 
this I'm sure you're asked this a 
thousand times what's your favorite 
Oprah story or your Oprah's show story 
so many and and and you know Bella to be 
honest most of it's a blur it was crazy 
it was it was fast just a moral and it 
was crazy and 
um you know it was fun doing those Oscar 
shows the morning after the Oscars we 
took the whole audience to Australia for 
a few weeks I love Australia so much we 
you know put a Big Red O on the Sydney 
Harbor Bridge I mean so many things and 
and you know probably the the last shows 
the shows at the United Center 
which were huge and and challenging to 
do 
um so so many things you know I and I 
liked it all you know I like this silly 
stuff I liked the important meaningful 
stuff I like the educational stuff I 
like the spiritual stuff and I probably 
most like the spiritual stuff because I 
really feel like that experience it was 
like being paid to build a spiritual 
life 
it was exposure to new thought leaders 
and thinking that I I never I never 
would have I don't think I would ever 
would have ever come across it 
so it was a transformative path for me 
for sure 
and and and and and let me say this 
and turns out it was just the foundation 
for what came next 
and there's no such thing as Glory Days 
unless you make it so but now I see that 
was the thing that led to this that led 
to this that led to this and so now I 
say oh all that got me ready for 
something else 
wow so in the background you're hustling 
you're sparkling you're doing all of 
this you moved to California and now the 
bricks are being laid for something else 
unbeknownst to you what was the moment 
that you sort of said wow I think 
something else is out there for me and 
how did you make that pivot I think 
everything has its time I think it was 
time it was time time time 
um I I you know to be honest I didn't 
particularly love the Cable business 
um and as you can see as it's changing 
so rapidly I mean it's a hard business 
really really hard and 
um you know I I had the you know one of 
the top seats and the worst job 
um you know and and it was far away from 
the things I really loved so 
um and also I was tired yeah I was a lot 
tired and maybe even a little sad 
and so it was it was the end it was the 
end it was time and it launched you know 
what it did was 
it was time for everybody all the way 
around to move on and what it did was it 
gave me this breath and this pause to 
kind of do a process that I now call the 
Reckoning 
which is 
okay 
you have been on a terror 
for 20 years 
how's it going 
do you like like your life 
do you like what you've created 
and you know it was very much the dream 
come true career but not the dream come 
true life 
and so that was like whoa okay I 
remember I did this exercise that you 
know all all the biggies would had some 
something similar to this which was 
called I call it the tombstone exercise 
and it's like what would your Tombstone 
say right now wow and mine was Sherry 
still here lies Sherry Salata she had a 
great job for a long time 
wow and I was like hmm that's not 
exactly what I would like but I got time 
to change it and and that's that those 
are the Glad Tidings that I bring to 
everybody listening today to realize 
okay that's where I'm headed 
I got time to change this and what I 
want my Tombstone to say is here lies 
Sherry Salata she lived the full-on 
joyride 
so I mean that's really where I'm at 
today 
um I I am I really keep my focus Bella 
on 
simple easy be in flow don't try to make 
anything happen allow it to happen watch 
for the breadcrumbs 
um you know the universe is laying down 
breadcrumbs 
get quiet 
look for them look for the signs listen 
to The Whispers do it like really really 
allow the universe to guide you 
to everything you say you want and for 
such a 
for a person who got so rewarded for 
making things happen it's a lot of new 
patterning I still have to do for myself 
I still have to say hold on hold on 
let's not do it the old way 
what is it you really want what's in 
your heart can you slow your role here 
and allow it to happen 
and 
um that has brought me 
to this moment 
where I can tell you 
in no uncertain terms I have never been 
more on purpose 
more filled with joy more in love with 
my life and myself than I am right now 
oh who else has goosebumps head ever 
right now and and so many of you 
listening to this are at these junctures 
in your life and maybe 
you're you're holding down and you're 
pushing down on that Reckoning that 
Sherry's talking about because you know 
so many of you are you know I work with 
you you're doctors your lawyers your 
blah blah blahs your blah blahs and 
you're the good girl and you've been in 
the Box you're the good boy and you've 
been in the box and you know there's 
something more to it and one of my 
favorite quotes ever is change happens 
in an instant it doesn't take years to 
make these decisions right those 
inflection points in our lives come as 
soon as we let them to some extent so 
you let your Reckoning happen and for 
someone and if you're sitting there 
driving a car you're on the elliptical 
or you're doing whatever it is 
understand how inspiring just this bit 
is is someone who have like 
the top seat next to the queen of two 
decades now downshifted pivoted start 
started her own business and says I've 
never had a juicier more joyful life I 
mean that chair big hug and high five 
over the screen and I know and what's so 
beautiful now is you've written a book 
about 
all of it and you're teaching people how 
to do what you did have their Reckoning 
so talk to us first about the book and 
then tell us about the work that you've 
done in your teaching others to do 
because it's unbelievable 
well the beautiful no which is my Memoir 
really is about all the pitfalls the 
mistakes 
um the the all the ways that I I went 
around things the hard way so for for 
for younger people I I say it's a 
cautionary tale 
or people my age I say it's a rallying 
cry because that's what I'm saying it's 
not too late I tell you right now I've 
never been happier more fulfilled more 
on purpose and I promise you my plan and 
intention is for two years from now to 
be able to say that again 
because I'm going to keep expanding I'm 
going to keep manifesting I'm going to 
keep calling it in I'm going to keep 
releasing releasing shame and and all 
the things the limiting beliefs that 
keep us stuck and you know I continue I 
I'm in this work 24 7. and I still have 
things come up where I'm like where'd 
that come from why am I triggered about 
that why am I why do I even care about 
that 
and um so you know what I what I see is 
until my last breath 
I'm gonna be creating and innovating and 
releasing and expanding and healing 
so now that I know that 
what else can I make space for 
and when you when you I call it doing 
the work but it's really not work Bella 
it's just really you know creating new 
practices and patterns that keep your 
feet on the path of transformation 
and as long as your feet are on the path 
it means you're focused on where you 
want to go 
and and not always brooding about what 
isn't arrived yet what what haven't you 
what haven't you solved for yet 
um 
and I want to keep my feet on the path 
because as long as I do that I know I 
know I am transcending 
I know that I am 
um casting a light 
for others 
which is what the gift we can all give 
one another and others are casting a 
light for me 
I love that I love that and if you're if 
you could give 
uh our listeners something if they're 
like wow I feel like the reckoning's 
bubbling up I'm listening to Sherry I 
can feel the lava juice I can feel it 
sort of coming up how do you start the 
work how do you even answer the question 
so many of us have been in service we're 
givers we've stopped we're producing 
everybody else's lives we don't even 
know what we want one of the questions I 
want I always ask is what do you want 
how do you recommend people start the 
work yeah 
um 
first of all 
make a promise to yourself to be not 
afraid wow you're afraid it is fear 
that robs us of our last two or three 
decades be not afraid there's nothing to 
be afraid of 
um 
make a friend of change 
because change is coming people are 
going to come and people are going to go 
and you'll you'll be okay with that 
you'll get through that as long as you 
as long as you've formed a new 
relationship with yourself 
there's nothing you can't transcend 
um I think the the way to get started is 
to number one make a I like to call them 
governing decisions so this isn't just a 
little fly-by-night decision this is a 
governing decision that I 
it is not too late for me 
oh I love to create the life I say I 
want 
and once you make that governing 
decision 
the universe shows up in interesting 
ways you know 
there are a million things that that can 
happen for you but the phone will ring 
someone will be like hey do you want to 
go for a walk 
kind of going through your life and 
saying I need to add more movement I 
need to add more water I need to add 
more plants I need to add a two-minute 
meditation I can do five times a day a 
little five deep breaths and do things 
these create your practices so small 
that you know you could do those 
practices every day for the rest of your 
life 
and that's the beginning 
and day after day after day you start to 
feel a little better and you start to 
feel a little bit more like the life 
manager you must become of yourself 
become the steward of your own 
well-being nobody else is going to do it 
some guys I know guys they're they're 
like Legends but they wrote a book 
um and and I don't remember oh who's in 
the room who's in your room who's in 
your room and and the premise is this 
that you're the also the bouncer why do 
you just have an open door and anybody 
can get in you're the bouncer 
now everybody should be in your room not 
a and you shouldn't be saying yes to 
everything and you you know how do you 
start setting boundaries I find for 
women in the middle to late middle of 
life 
it's gonna be it's gonna be it's gonna 
be a hard thing to face but most of your 
relationships are codependent 
yeah now you've just been raised by 
people who weren't trained and they were 
raised by people who weren't trained 
and all this information this Leading 
Edge therapeutic information spiritual 
information has shown us now that we are 
not to be serving everybody and not 
ourselves 
that there's nothing spiritual about 
that in fact you just end up stuffing 
down your resentment totally 
and really killing yourself it's the 
death of Dreams so so it's just 
beginning to beginning to 
help yourself uncover 
The Knowing inside that there is more 
for you 
that it is possible and that you are 
worthy of more joy more love more 
expansion more fun more Adventure and 
the only thing standing in your way is 
you 
um 
say it again for the people in the back 
the only thing standing in the in your 
way is you and that means that's very 
good news because you can say I'm not 
standing in my way anymore yeah I'm 
gonna let it flow I'm gonna let it all 
in I'm gonna start dreaming again and 
I'm gonna believe again and I'm gonna 
stir that pot of Hope and get it going 
um 
I and I can feel myself like bubbling 
with the things that you're saying with 
with positivity it's like get rid of the 
fear what makes it a little peace get 
get a little piece you start stirring 
that pot of hope maybe I could why can't 
I maybe I could maybe I could you get a 
little piece of that a little hold on 
that 
next thing you know you're Off to the 
Races and next thing you know like your 
mind is just taking you into 
possibilities and potential and you know 
things you could do and the kind of work 
you can create and the kind of love you 
can have and the kind of relationships 
you really want in your life not the 
ones that suck you dry the ones that 
elevate you and lift you up 
oh oh 
um 
oh I love that I love that and I can 
feel this washing over me and I know I I 
heart your title at the beginning your 
transformation Doula I mean it's obvious 
you're showing us and not telling us 
what you do because I can I'm sure the 
molecules and everybody right now are 
like oh my God it's possible for me I 
could do this what is the transformation 
Doula I know what is your work in the 
world now with people 
well I do not choose to be an expert 
and I I I I've seen them all and every 
one of them a good portion of them and 
here's what I see what what I I see that 
it's a difficult Road when you cast 
yourself in that light so what I say is 
I am on the path 
and I'm putting out my elbows and if you 
want to link arms with me and walk down 
that path 
then let's go and so what is that what 
does that look like it's more like 
um 
I've taken some steps I've done it 
myself 
and I've done a lot of things so Let Me 
Shine the Light a little bit so I'll let 
me be your Doula so what what does that 
look like it's it's very much evolved 
I can't believe it I mean like two years 
ago I didn't know I'd be doing any of 
this and it's just been very much 
inspired and divinely divinely led and 
um a co-creation and I do a digital 
course called 
um change your story change your life 
that's 12 I do it live workshops for 12 
weeks and I do it twice a year I'm in 
the middle of my latest cohort right now 
I have a private membership group for 
women called the support system where I 
bring in experts like Miss Bella and uh 
we 
um we keep ourselves on the path 
together so I get to Duo some producing 
bringing in experts having events 
um it's it has the advantages of of 
social media but it's not it's off 
Facebook it's off everything it's 
private it's it's a big old Global 
Sacred Circle for sure 
and then I do some trips you know for 
for people who want to go and have not 
only an adventure but an Awakening 
um I do some things like that so I'm 
just really doing what I want to do 
Bella 
I love this well you're everybody's 
transformational Doula including mine so 
I 
um yeah I just love being in your 
presence and I'm so I'm so glad that you 
were doing the work that you're doing 
not only for others but that like you 
said you're linking arms you're putting 
your elbows out and saying come join me 
I'm not perfect I'm still transforming 
and I will continue to transform more to 
do while I'm in this body more to do 
because there's more to do because as 
you start to build this new life new 
things appear and you're like oh I also 
want to learn that I want to go in that 
direction I want to live here and as you 
gain the courage when you get rid of 
those mind monkeys and those cement 
blocks of fear right all of a sudden the 
world is your oyster and if you can hear 
this right Sherry is not 21 years old or 
31 and she's transforming her life over 
50 right right so if you're sitting 
there going oh my God I'm 50. wow 58 
what it used to be okay you know what it 
used to be yeah I started this when I 
was 56. and I still feel like I'm just 
like I'm just getting going you know you 
and I were talking 
um off mic before before we started that 
what this has allowed me to do I mean 
obviously work has been my thing to the 
exclusion of a lot of other things 
um to the exclusion of love to the 
exclusion of creating a family other 
than my four-leggeds and because I was 
good at it and it it it it 
answered some wounds too because you 
know for for a lot of us and you you 
guys can all have this conversation with 
yourself 
um do you equate achievement with 
worthiness 
you know for some of us that started in 
the second grade with the first spelling 
bee and and papers getting graded do you 
do you equate achievement with 
worthiness well guess what that was a 
big surprise to me that was in 
2019 when I was out on my book tour and 
I was like oh my God I have a terrible I 
put those things as the same thing it's 
it it it it's so not true right I've 
been telling myself that life forever 
which is why you get to the top of the 
mountain of achievement and you're like 
well this ain't all that right why am I 
not super happy 
I'm just kind of like hmm 
which happens to a lot of people in the 
middle of life whether you've had a big 
career like mine or you raised a family 
and all that that means and you're like 
well here I am is that all there is 
right and my and I understand that 
feeling I understand that feeling and my 
answer to that is 
no 
um no 
put your hands on the wheel open your 
heart and open your mind and start 
dreaming there's more there's so much 
more and you can be happier and more on 
purpose and more filled with joy than 
ever before and I haven't even conjured 
my mate yet the lid to my pot yet Bella 
okay Cher let's go there now what's 
where 
you and I talked a few weeks ago and you 
said Bell 
2023 I'm feeling it I'm feeling I've 
done some warm-up dating which was that 
was a big step to even to put on a heel 
and some lipstick and get out of the 
house so I've done a little warm-up 
dating and here's what I realize I've 
healed enough where it isn't I I'm not 
psychotic on a date that's was like I 
don't I don't want to reactivate that 
psychotic woman I was in my 30s 
um where I'm always mostly interested in 
what won't pursue me and what will 
pursue me I'm like 
um but I'm like I'm not psychotic 
anymore this is just a lovely meeting of 
another human being and a sip of wine 
and something to eat so I've I've calmed 
myself I see that I've done enough 
healing that 
I won't reactivate that old behavior 
that I did not enjoy 
the second thing I want to say is that 
and this has been a really recent Bella 
maybe even like the last four or five 
months it's like I see that I'm creating 
space 
I'm I see that I'm creating space I'm 
slowing some things down I'm simplifying 
some things 
to create space 
that gives me the opportunity to think 
about what I want what do I want in an 
intimate partnership 
I have space to to Noodle on that in a 
way that I'm like well I can't think 
about that now I've got all this stuff 
to do so and that's really just 
self-protective 
so it's just like let's just create some 
space 
here's what we know you can have what 
you want 
to have one so let's just start to 
create some space and call that in and 
so who knows Bella I might be down doing 
some pictures with you in 2023 at Cher 
Smart dating Academy always has a VIP 
spot for you my friend and and I know 
for a fact that when you and I first 
connected was it 2016 when was Bellevue 
16 yeah seven years ago yeah your first 
volley to me is yeah I'm not ready for 
what you do we'll talk about it on my 
podcast but I'm not I'm not here slow 
down lady slow down lady right here and 
and so now for me to hear this and I'm 
never I'm Not The Pusher of anybody 
you're ready for this you don't know it 
right because people need to have their 
own Journeys and when people come I had 
some healing to do Bella for sure I had 
I had some healing to do 
um and and knew that that it's like uh 
brother I'm just I'm just coming out of 
a fog 
um I have some healing to do and and yet 
you know I'm also checking myself 
I'm also checking myself like don't keep 
putting that off 
so just get in the pool just get in the 
pool already and see what it is you want 
you know and you're not going to be 
robbed of your you know 
um 
I don't know I I I've you know like like 
where do you get these Notions you know 
I watched my parents when I was little 
and my mom had the had the worst end of 
the bargain 
she was like 
the family made the family babysitter 
the family Cook and her job was 24 7. I 
was like absolutely not unpaid unpaid 
and like my dad would saunter in and you 
know God bless him and he'd sit down and 
you know he Disturbed why he watches the 
news and you know and golfs on the 
weekends and my mom's still working I 
was like that is a shitty bargain yeah 
so you know some of those those 
formative things really did a number on 
me so I have to unpack that and say no 
no no no you're a grown ass woman you 
can make your own agreements yes none 
you know for partnership you can really 
have those conversations and make your 
own agreements 
so that's what I say I mean healing 
making space 
getting excited 
um seeing seeing how that could be 
that's like the next version of My Life 
and I mean just what I'm telling you I 
can't even imagine being more joyful 
more appreciative more on purpose but I 
guess I can 
yeah I guess that's I guess that's the 
next level 
100 and here's what I would tell you 
people often come to this place where 
gosh I'm so happy finally on my own like 
do I do I want someone do I need 
somebody I'm like well as humans we're 
sort of driven to pair bond right we 
kind of like that one person and I will 
tell you what you said it correctly the 
right person the lid to your pot will be 
an and to your beautiful life it's not 
an or it's not if I find a man old bad 
story is I'm going to become the nurse 
in the purse right that is not what 
you're going to become this can be a 
beautiful partnership with someone who I 
don't know if you remember this we 
talked about this on the podcast on your 
podcast years ago when I came to LA and 
I still have this vision for you where 
you have met the lid to your pot and I'm 
closing my eyes because I can visualize 
it so perfectly and 
your boo is standing in the back of the 
room he's got a tuxedo on he looks 
dashing and Dapper and he's elbowing the 
guy next to him and he's like and you're 
up on the stage you've got the mic 
because you're transformationally 
dueling all of us at this point and 
you're wearing sequins and you're 
sparkling and he point he elbows the guy 
next to me he's like can you believe 
I got her 
and he's beaming and he's proud and he's 
like I swam out of my Lane look at that 
and he couldn't be prouder of you and 
that is who's waiting for you 
that is the dream my friend that is the 
dream and yes I think that's possible 
I know it's possible and I'm here for 
all of it because that's the 
transformational 
doulaing that I do so that's why that's 
right girl that is 100 
possible for you and the fact that I'm 
hearing you say 2023 I'm feeling I'm 
feeling the bubbly things coming up 
great and I hope that listening to 
Sherry for you dear listener who might 
be driving and maybe you've been 
listening to this podcast for a year and 
you're like man I don't know I've got 
some work to do do the work have your 
Reckoning let it Bubble Up no there is 
hope for you look at what Sherry has 
done with her life right pivoted more 
joyful than ever did more work while 
creating that joy and is now saying I 
think I could find the lid to my pot and 
I think that there many Lids to my pot 
and they could be in all these different 
zip codes but isn't that exciting and I 
get to just go out and date and meet new 
friends and it's low stakes and I'm not 
chasing and nobody's chasing me and this 
is going to feel peaceful and lovely and 
that is my that is how your love Journey 
will go that's how it will go it will be 
very easy because that's how everything 
is going now I just I just won't get in 
the heart and on the Hard Road anymore I 
know what that hard road is it's a lot 
of 
um a lot of pushing and maneuvering and 
manipulating and you know talking into 
and the Hard Road is no fun and it and 
it's not it's it's it's 
it's not it's false excitement 
you know because we're like wow that's 
so easy maybe that's not so exciting 
listen these days ease and flow is the 
most exciting thing I've ever I've ever 
experienced it's so exciting and the 
phone rings or you run into somebody or 
you pick up and have the perfect answer 
or somebody says hey you should go check 
out Georgia I'm like Georgia who knows I 
could be moving there in three months 
you just don't know you just don't know 
and and that's why I will be right along 
your side because we want to make sure 
that it is flowing and it is easy and 
sometimes we think easy is what we knew 
in the past and we want to step onto a 
roller coaster even though we don't know 
it so I'm here for all of it Sherry all 
right Bella I'm signing you up you're 
gonna You're Gonna Be My Love Guru girl 
I'm right here for you well well you 
have a free gift 
I do I do so so you were asking me how 
like how do you even begin and and so 
here's a an easy thing to do so I put 
together this workbook 
um nothing's more important in imagining 
your life than than the words you're 
gonna you're gonna choose to use what 
you're gonna say The Story You're gonna 
tell about your life so I have a a 
workbook that'll help you get going it's 
at sherrysalada.com 
forward slash 10 the numbers ten words 
and that's it change ten ten words 
change your life and people cannot even 
believe the transformation they 
experience just by taking those first 
few little steps 
so um I'll believe in it I'll believe in 
it it works for me I know it can work 
for anybody absolutely absolutely well I 
love you my friends 
2023 is your year 
hold on I have one for you right here 
okay blessed by a shaman in Mexico so 
this is your heart so this is how I have 
this sitting right here for you I love 
that BOA that was my wish for you at the 
end of this so this is going to be a 
fantastic year and for all of you I want 
you to think about the things that you 
want in your life the joy you want the 
love you want the life you want start 
give start saying talk to the hand give 
all these things in your life that you 
don't want anymore the beautiful no it's 
okay like Sherry said to ask people to 
leave the room you are the bouncer of 
your life and know that it is all 
possible Sherry created a life that she 
loves I've created a life that I love 
you just have to break through and the 
beauty is is that it's all within you 
already how magical is that it's so 
magical call it's so magical and your 
life should be magic thanks for 
listening everybody Bella I love you so 
much thank you for having me on I love 
you you will be back 


her name is Jody Lavoy Jody's gonna tell 
us her story what it's like to date as a 
widow and tips for all of us as to what 
to do and what not to do if you're 
dating a widow or widower so well let's 
just go my husband was shot at work by 
an employee that he demoted four days 
prior who came back to the office and 
shot my husband I woke up the next 
morning and I went oh my gosh I'm now 
running a business because that was the 
plan if something happened to Steve I 
would take over in one moment your 
entire life just went upside down what 
was it like to think about embarking on 
The Dating process it was scary new men 
entering my life and it's not my husband 
what is that going to be like and I 
think I got some of that out of my 
system with the poor eight people before 
sorry if you're listening eight people a 
much better dater now 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
welcome back smart daters I'm so excited 
to talk to you today about a subject 
that is near and dear to my heart near 
and dear I know to your heart or 
somebody that you know and they'll be 
very close to your heart and what we're 
going to talk about is healing after 
betrayal 
and finding love again and I have one of 
my favorite people literally on planet 
Earth who I've gotten to know over the 
past three years and I'm tickled pink 
that she is here with me to chat with 
you guys this is like an after dark 
episode we're going to talk about the 
real deal of my friend and badass 
Kick-Ass woman serial entrepreneur 
Rachel Graham Rachel is not Rachel is 
the founder of The Healing Springs Ranch 
and the founder of evolve and transform 
she is a speaker she is a mom she is a 
friend she was a Smart dating Academy 
client that has now become an incredibly 
dear friend Rachel welcome 
thank you Bella wow what an intro 
um I appreciate you sharing a little bit 
of my story but wow that was that was 
very flattering I appreciate it and I'm 
grateful to be here 
um as you know you've been a tremendous 
and had a tremendous impact in my world 
and I'm glad I get to share it with your 
viewers 
um and listeners on kind of the journey 
you and I have had 
um I did want to say one thing too I'm a 
co-founder in Healing Springs Ranch I 
have tremendous business partners that 
help deliver the quality care we can 
talk about that later because as you 
know that was 
um my story was the Genesis for how I 
got into that industry so thank you 
Bella for having me oh you're so welcome 
and you know Rachel is here with us 
because her story to some extent is your 
story is my story which one of us hasn't 
been betrayed in some way shape or form 
and we've been forced to to get down on 
our knees it can reduce us to nothing 
and we've all had to figure out our way 
or maybe for you you're still down there 
on the ground figuring out how can I 
heal can I heal so Rachel I'm gonna I'm 
I would love for you to tell us your 
story of betrayal and healing 
um 
and and 
the strength that you've had to get to 
where you are now so I'm handing you the 
mic to just talk to us for real 
thank you Bella and yeah you're right 
betrayal is something we're all going to 
experience in some fashion or form 
um unfortunately and it's one of the 
deepest 
um probably most assaulting things that 
can happen to us as a human being when 
we put Faith and confidence in someone 
and Trust in an individual and they in 
turn violate that particular trust and 
so for in my case you know I went 
through a situation as you know and I'm 
not going to go into all the graphic 
details but you know in my marriage 
ended because of betrayal or at least 
that's why I thought it ended because of 
Financial and physical betrayal 
um and I really at the time felt like it 
was all his fault 
um what happened was his fault he did 
this to me okay woe is me this horrible 
thing happened and yes it was a horrible 
thing 
however I found myself in this victim 
mentality and that victim mentality I 
kept cycling through that and we'll talk 
a little bit about the drama triangle 
and the victims one of the roles on the 
drama triangle and I found that so long 
as I stayed in that victim mentality or 
my friends even supported me staying in 
that victim mentality by saying yeah you 
know he's a this or that or whatever or 
family members 
um I wasn't able to push through it and 
move forward and so I did a lot of 
personal healing to get through this 
particular situation and get to the 
other side to where I actually am 
healthier for having gone through this I 
have more self-awareness I have more 
ability to see my role and and that's 
something that was a unique thought 
process to me when someone said to me 
well what was your role in all of this 
and I said what do you mean my role I'm 
the victim I don't I'm the victim I'm 
the victim I don't have a role this 
happened to me exactly exactly he went 
outside the marriage and so I'm trying 
to place blame on another individual and 
the reality of it is is that marriages 
don't end because of infidelity or 
relationships don't end because of 
infidelity it is a symptom of a much 
larger problem and there's culpability 
on both people's Parts while you may not 
have been the one that acted out there's 
something that you need to address in 
you so that you don't repeat this 
pattern and I know that's something you 
talk geniusly about is when you 
especially when you're referring to like 
a narcissist and making the same 
mistakes and so what I learned in this 
is we oftentimes will continue to make 
these mistakes until we heal and grow 
from them and learn the patterns that 
are causing us to find ourselves in 
these situations and so for me when I 
put the mirror in front of me which was 
absolutely the most painful thing I've 
ever had to do and look at it do I yeah 
do I like what I see in the mirror and 
then I had to come to terms and 
acknowledge that I in my marriage was 
emotionally unavailable 
you wouldn't know that wow yeah you and 
I are good friends and I bear my soul to 
you I I feel comfortable being 
vulnerable with you because I trust you 
I had to learn how to do that I couldn't 
do that even with my closest friends but 
yet I didn't see that as an issue 
because when you're coming when you're 
growing up you identify with your family 
of origin the way you grew up the people 
you grew up the friends that you had all 
those kinds of things and we take on 
those traits and in my environment I 
wasn't in I what I've never felt 
um capable of being very vulnerable and 
open with feelings thoughts and ideas 
and so I took that through my 
relationships and I actually sought out 
people in retrospect looking at it that 
were the same way that we're incapable 
of doing that because it's like two 
emotionally stunted people come together 
thinking they're gonna make it whole if 
that makes sense 
and so I had to learn that what that was 
I didn't even know what that was and I 
figured that out through therapy and 
through um giving myself time and space 
um after my marriage ended which is 
something I highly suggest to everybody 
Out There Our natural instinct is oh I 
want to feel validated that someone 
finds me attractive or someone wants to 
go out with me and I'm going to run out 
and find someone I'll show that person 
how attractive I am to the opposite sex 
you know all this stuff and the reality 
is we missed a golden opportunity to 
stand back and really reflect and heal 
such that we can present as a better 
partner and choose and you talk about 
your picker when your Pickers off have a 
better picker going into a new 
relationship because like attracts like 
so if you're emotionally unhealthy 
you're gonna attract emotionally 
unhealthy if you're emotionally healthy 
you're gonna find someone that's 
emotionally healthy the two don't go 
together when someone is unhealthy is 
not going to end up with a healthy 
person period it doesn't work won't make 
sense you're so right you're so right 
and when you did this work you know you 
switched from victim mentality and one 
day you held the mirror up how did your 
emotional availability show up I love 
that you were able because it's really 
hard for all of us to say you know you 
hurt me okay but what was my role in 
that right what was my role in that and 
what what did you discover about your 
role in your marriage 
with her so when the kind of the 
opposite or the antithesis to 
um being a victim is to be a Creator so 
when you ask yourself what role did I 
play in this and then I'm going to look 
at that and go more in depth and address 
and explore and understand that that's 
when you're getting off the drama 
triangle which is Cartman's drama 
triangle and I'll come back and share a 
little bit more about it yeah but you're 
shifting from that victim unhealthy 
victim role where you're powerless 
things happen to you you have no control 
um you you you have no ownership in 
finding a better solution to things but 
when you shift to a healthier version 
you become a Creator and a Creator says 
okay happens excuse my French but 
it does okay well how do I respond to 
that how do what opportunity does it 
create for me is there a learning 
opportunity is there in my case a 
business model opportunity yeah what is 
it out there that sits there in that 
creator role and the Creator feels 
empowered by this this ugly thing that's 
happened they feel in control or ability 
to take control and it's a mindset shift 
that happens right here and most people 
don't even realize they have the power 
to do that and for me that shift 
happened in the course of about two 
minutes and when I look back at that 
moment that pivotal two minutes and it 
was a very spiritual moment I I've 
shared it with you and I'll share it 
with your viewers where I was going 
through I was in the depths of hell I 
was going through kind of uncovering 
um betrayal after betrayal after 
betrayal and as I uncovered more and 
more I felt smaller and smaller and 
smaller and I just felt Beat Down Beat 
Down beat down and I came home to my 
home at the time and there was a water 
coming out the front door from a pipe 
that had backed up oh God and um I had 
it was a horrible week I had been 
dealing with my marital situation 
talking to divorce attorneys had to 
euthanize my dog which happened to be a 
wedding gift to my former husband at the 
time 
um and I kind of had this weird sense of 
I mean having to euthanize my dog and 
I'm going to euthanize my marriage too 
you know it was kind of a surreal 
experience and then having this this 
flooding happen all while trying to work 
and manage two young kids and I I felt 
the weight of the world at that moment 
it was like one more thing and so here I 
am in a victim mentality saying God why 
are you doing this to me so I walk into 
my house I ask the babysitter to take 
the kids and go away for a few hours 
because I knew it was about to combust 
and I had this moment um a very I'll 
call it a spiritual moment where I had 
to release I had been going through 
everything in kind of an emotionally 
frigid way trying to navigate and take 
care of responsibilities keep up um you 
know things for my kids for the sake of 
my kids be strong don't cry don't do all 
these things and I finally hit my 
breaking point and when I did I fell 
into the water on my floor 
screaming at God and screaming about why 
are you doing this to me see the the 
there's the victim language why are you 
doing this to me how much more are you 
going to give me I can't take anymore 
what did I do to deserve this all of 
that very victimy language and I felt 
what felt like a hand on the back of my 
neck pick me up pull me to my feet and 
tell me you're going to be all right I'm 
trying to show you something 
and I replied out loud saying you've got 
my effing attention 
and it was at that point that I allowed 
myself to shift to a Creator role saying 
okay there's some reason I'm going 
through all of this there's something 
I'm supposed to learn there's something 
the universe is trying to tell me and 
maybe I just need to go with it and stop 
trying to control it and so I 
surrendered to that and it led me down a 
path in understanding addiction mental 
health 
um going through that process and seeing 
some opportunity to change that industry 
along with some of my business partners 
um and that's how I got into Healing 
Springs because I was appalled at the 
type of treatment that was out there for 
my loved one 
um and really wanted to to change the 
The Narrative that was being played out 
there and so I took everything I had 
learned 
um and started down that path and got 
involved and so my very darkest moment 
became the most enlightened moment I 
think I've ever had in my life wow wow 
wow wow you know I listened to and I'm a 
fan of Tony Robbins and one of the 
things that he always says is can you 
find the meaning in the mess 
and you were the definition of finding 
the meaning at that moment you are 
literally on your knees in the water and 
you feel this hand pulling you up by the 
collar saying you like I'm going to show 
you the way out and you let that create 
itself and you let yourself Find the 
meaning which resulted in you 
and I'm I'm guessing in some senses this 
was a blessing to you as well to have 
this new idea and this light bulb it's 
not going to replace a a marriage that 
had died but suddenly you have this new 
purpose to put that energy and all of 
the work that you had done on yourself 
and your business Acumen into as you 
know something that you know is now 
helping so many people turn their lives 
around amazing 
no thank you I think you know I learned 
something and in that process in that it 
was okay to be vulnerable with myself 
it's okay to be real with myself it's 
okay to say out loud I'm disappointed in 
you Rachel you could have done this 
differently and it was okay to be sad it 
was okay to be mad and it was okay 
sometimes you shift around all these 
different emotions 
um and and sometimes you don't even know 
why but I did learn something very 
important from um through my the therapy 
I did to kind of work through this and 
it was that you can't go around this 
pain this grief 
um you you can't people want the fast 
ticket you know the fast pass to go 
through something you know I want to go 
around it over it under it because it's 
too painful to go through it but that's 
not an option you have to go through it 
but while you're going through it it 
doesn't have to be this dark cave and 
and um scary experience there will be 
moments that it's scary but there's also 
these Beautiful Moments and the best 
compliment received the best compliment 
when I was in one of the darkest places 
of my life from someone it was a coach 
from a leadership program I was in at 
the time and he said to me you're a 
lotus flower blooming in the muck 
you think about that the Lotus can't 
Bloom if it doesn't have muck around it 
so that's something I remembered on my 
dark day you're a lotus flower girl 
you're a lotus flower you're going to 
bloom and you've got to have this muck 
to help you do that and so I go back to 
that compliment I'll never forget that 
moment I go back to that so I learned 
that you have to go through this and you 
have to allow yourself the time and the 
space and you can't really go through it 
effectively if you're too busy jumping 
back into the dating world and needing 
to feel validated by others because at 
the end of the day if you don't love 
yourself no one else is going to love 
you the way that you're gonna crave that 
and it's not their job to love you it's 
yours to make yourself happy to love 
yourself and then invite someone into 
your world to share in that but you want 
someone too that loves themselves too 
um and is in a healthy place so that's a 
something I learned during those dark 
moments 
and you guys this is I think something 
that's important and we talk about a lot 
is that loving yourself doesn't mean you 
don't have broken parts to you it 
doesn't mean that your healing is 
complete it just means that you have 
accepted yourself for the things that 
you have been through the landmines you 
have been over and you're okay with who 
you are and the the scars and the warts 
and all of you that comes with you it 
doesn't sometimes when we hear you've 
got to love yourself and Rachel I know 
you agree with this it doesn't mean 
everything is healed up and put away 
nicely and it'll never come back right 
at a certain point there are parts of us 
that don't heal and we learn how to cope 
with those parts 
mm-hmm 
I heard something the other day was 
another profound thought and it was 
really around leadership but you could 
change the lead part to live live your 
life through your scars not with open 
wounds through the open wounds you know 
um you need to it's your job to heal 
your wounds and then we all walk around 
with scars I mean we're all perfectly 
imperfect we all have life experiences 
we've all had life challenges 
um you know I can't compare my traumas 
to someone else's that's not fair 
because it's theirs to own it's mind to 
own and we have our own experiences in 
it but I can extend Grace and compassion 
to someone in understanding when 
someone's been through a difficult time 
so you know live you know with the scars 
not with the wounds sitting there 
because if you live with the wounds 
you're constantly opened and they 
constantly weep and bleed and you're 
you're gonna do that on another 
relationship and then wonder why that's 
not the right relationship you're gonna 
do it you know in work or whatever it is 
with a friendship whatever it is and 
you're going to wonder why this keeps 
happening it's because you have not 
healed those wounds and until you do 
you're almost not whole you're whole 
with the star 
but you're not whole when you have these 
open infected wounds no it's so true and 
you said something earlier that I want 
to come back to you and maybe you can 
share some of your best thoughts around 
this you had that moment where you said 
you realized my role in this was being 
emotionally unavailable and sometimes we 
call that in dating parlance emotionally 
avoided right it just means I kind of am 
an independent person I can deal with 
stuff on my own I don't do a lot of 
feelings I don't do a lot of intimacy 
and and you march forward and you can be 
very successful in your life but when 
you realize that you can be emotionally 
avoidant and you know the the statistics 
say one in four of us have what we call 
an avoidant attachment system what are 
some things that you can tell you know 
someone if you're avoidant here are some 
ways to help yourself do you have 
anything that you can share with us that 
helped you 
yes practicing vulnerability you know 
being able to identify trustworthy 
people that's that's the big piece when 
you're avoidant it's because you don't 
trust right you have you have built up 
walls and barriers and it's usually 
because of a coping skill you've had as 
a child or maybe you didn't feel safe in 
an environment so you learned to throw 
that wall up and no one gets in that 
wall and when I was in high school I had 
a boyfriend tell me he goes you're like 
Rapunzel you're up in the tower and you 
let your hair down just enough that I 
can almost grab it then you yank it up 
and I thought that was the weirdest 
thing he said to me in high school and I 
didn't get it at the time and now it 
makes he was describing that that's 
exactly what he's describing in his 18 
year old way you know 
um he was describing that and I carried 
that with me and so for me to get real 
with myself and then to be able to tell 
you who I am let you see who I am really 
really let you experience things with me 
that I would not normally tell someone 
once I learned how to do that and I 
learned it's not so scary yeah people 
are going to disappoint you that's just 
life you know but and I can be 
vulnerable someone and I can be 
vulnerable with a stranger now and I 
wasn't able to do that before for fear 
of judgment or more hurts whatever it 
may be and and so I now spend my life 
being vulnerable on stages and 
communicating on podcasts and shows and 
and teaching at my facility because I've 
learned that being vulnerable is 
actually quite healing 
brene Brown's a good subject matter 
expert on that but it is quite healing 
to be vulnerable and when you are who 
you authentically are and you let the 
world see that 
and people still like you for it that's 
validating you know and that the thing 
that I learned in the process is most 
relationships have a shelf life of some 
sort some are a lifetime some are an 
hour some are a five minute you know 
passing and Target you know whatever it 
may be 
um but relationships have a shelf life 
and as human beings we try to extend the 
shelf life on relationships that we need 
to sunset in our world and the most 
loving thing that you can do is to 
Sunset a relationship when it's hit that 
shelf life and in doing so you're you're 
actually allowing that person to go on 
and find what they're looking for 
um you know I I've encountered 
situations where someone's a great 
person they're just not my person you 
know in the dating world they're 
wonderful people they're just not my 
person and why would I want to try to 
force that to happen or work or go down 
that path because someone's showing an 
interest in me when that's really unfair 
to them and and so that's a big piece 
that I would say is important the second 
thing I would say to people too is when 
you get out and start dating again 
um you want to do that obviously after 
you've healed but you're going to face 
some rejection but rejection is 
something we should be grateful for 
because rejection is protection and it's 
redirection so say that again for the 
people in the back okay the people in 
the back it's rejection is protection 
and it's redirection so it's an 
opportunity for you to step back and say 
this path I'm going down or this person 
I'm in a relationship with is not my 
person and that's okay and then it's 
time for me to welcome that rejection 
instead of saying there's something 
wrong with me 
just acknowledging that this wasn't a 
right fit 
um and that could be a job maybe you 
didn't get a job that you wanted 
whatever it may be you know we're 
talking about dating and relationships 
so I'll put it in that context but it 
frees you up to go find the very thing 
you are looking for and I have yet to 
hear someone say I was rejected by 
someone that and then they did the work 
that's an important part and then they 
found someone new and they sit there and 
they go what was I thinking you know 
back then when I was you know crying 
over that and that was the only person 
for me and whatnot once they've done the 
healing and that journey and they end up 
in a healthier relationship they look 
back and say you know what that needed 
to end I just didn't know it at the time 
wow no it's so true we all need to we 
all need to do our work and as Rachel 
you know alluded to we talk a lot about 
fixing your picker and so much of the 
time when we haven't done that work or 
even sometimes when we have done that 
work right we still human beings are 
creatures of habits we tend to want to 
do what feels comfortable versus what's 
intellectually right for us right and 
that's where we really help people to 
put the guardrails around you to make 
sure sure that you're picking people 
that are actually good for you for women 
we call them high GHQ guys high in good 
husband qualities people that are going 
to provide you with that safe secure 
connection that you're looking for so 
Rachel what made you know or what made 
you you know kind of put your first toe 
back into the dating pool and and where 
are you now tell us your process you 
were a single woman who dealt with 
betrayal physical Financial you turned 
that into the mess into your meaning you 
started and co-founded Healing Springs 
Ranch which helps people that are 
struggling with addiction to turn their 
lives around it's an amazing place in 
Texas and if you're curious about it 
make sure you check it out now once you 
did all of that tell us about your 
dating Journey 
though I spent probably five six years 
working on me 
um I was too scared to get by the dating 
World it changed so much for me I mean 
after 20 years 
um entering back into the dating World 
um was just frightening to me and uh I 
had a really good friend who said you 
know what you need and I said what she 
goes you need a Bella and I was like 
who's a Bella what's a Bella and so she 
said you need to call Bella and I 
remember calling you and I told you my 
sorted story it's kind of one of those 
where you just want to have a 
um cry afterwards or a box of tissues 
and I told you my whole story and but I 
had felt for the first time I'm ready to 
explore now something else that's very 
scary to me which was dating 
um so again dating in this age is 
different than in your 20s because 
you're not as interested in you know 
you're not gonna have children with this 
person in theory I was not going to 
commingle funds or retirement honor or 
assets and so you're dating for 
different reasons it's more about 
compatibility and can we enjoy life 
together how will this person be if I 
need them to care give or if I need a 
caregiver for them 
um you start thinking about different 
things in your 20s don't even cross your 
radar and so I was fortunate that I 
found a Bella and I'll put air quotes 
Bella and who helped me really kind of 
enter into this this 
um cave or this this is this Abyss that 
I was not familiar with at all and hold 
my hand as I navigated these Waters I 
think you remember how how scared I was 
at the time to even just the online 
dating thing when you said you have to 
get online I was like what what what 
like how do I background screen all 
these people 
which you did 
I did I was so scared but you know I was 
like a horse like when you think about a 
little um 
yearling that's standing up for the 
first time it's been born it's only a 
few hours or days old and it goes to 
stand up and its legs are real shaky and 
it's trying its hardest to support its 
weight that's what I felt like when I 
came to you the first time and kind of 
my getting my legs about me in the 
dating World 
um and and having the confidence and the 
skills it's like anything else you know 
you need skills going in in tools going 
into this process and none of us get 
that when we're younger in high school 
you don't go to like learn how to date 
one-on-one class you know you just kind 
of do it you explore it well you're 
gonna have there's a little bit of that 
but there is some science and tools that 
you all so graciously share and educate 
on that help making navigating this 
field 
um easier and it gave me an opportunity 
to spot the the creepers or to spot the 
they're not your person people faster 
before you go down a path and maybe 
you're interested in this person and 
then you realize this person is not your 
person 
um so I'm grateful for what you all gave 
me and it in short it's confidence the 
level of confidence and tools 
um and where are you now Rachel Graham 
so you know I the one thing I had to 
kind of get my head around and I I've 
talked with my girlfriends about that is 
you know when you start dating you often 
think well I want to get remarried and 
we're going to do this we have this live 
and I had to get okay with the fact that 
in my own mind I didn't necessarily want 
to be remarried I it's not that I I love 
the the whole process of marriage and 
whatnot but I felt like I was at a place 
in my life where marriage wasn't the 
important attribute it was finding a 
really high quality guy to that I can 
enjoy doing things with that we have a 
good time that mine I had some very 
specific criteria and that you helped me 
with that get ahead of that and say 
these are the deal breakers and make 
sure that I flush that out when I'm 
meeting folks 
um to make sure that I when you don't 
have a plan or it's like a strategic 
plan at work you have a strategic plan 
on how you're going to embark on 
something and if you don't have a plan 
and you're navigating these Waters 
you're bound to kind of trip and make 
some mistakes so you gave me the 
opportunity to be very clear at what I 
was looking for what was important what 
are things I could tolerate maybe it you 
know wasn't exactly what I wanted but I 
could tolerate that but I think the 
other thing I realized is there's no 
Prince Charming and there's no princess 
out there you know there are people that 
are can be very good people that 
um have their own scars 
um and that you know are living life 
much like you learning sometimes and 
evolving and growing you know so this 
notion of my prince hasn't come yet 
there is no Prince that's a fairy tale 
you know we're all perfectly imperfect 
and relationships are going to be work 
but they're beautiful and they can be 
beautiful work even in the darkest 
moments so I have been very fortunate to 
meet someone and you know be able to 
explore you know life with that you know 
is is a lot of fun can be hilarious and 
I'm comfortable and I I learned I 
stopped trying to figure out The Next 
Step I'm letting things unfold 
organically as a type a entrepreneur 
female you know typically we want to 
know where we're going how we're going 
this what date and time are we doing 
this and those types of things and I've 
had to learn to just kind of Let It Go 
doesn't mean that I don't want to plan 
on when we're going to get together or 
go out on date night that's still 
important but you know not having to sit 
back and analyze a relationship on where 
it's going to be tomorrow or is it going 
to be a year from now and just letting 
it go and evolve if that makes sense 
and Rachel where did you meet can I say 
he's your fly guy and you can say why 
he's your Fly Guy and uh what happens 
when he walks through an airport how did 
you meet Fly Guy 
oh I met him online actually using the 
tools that you gave me and uh he's a 
pilot so I call him affectionately Fly 
Guy 
um he's a very good man and he's he's 
fabulous but he uh he's he's he's we 
have a lot of good times together and 
you know the thing about dating two at 
this age is typically like he has kids I 
have kids you know your kids there's 
oftentimes ex-spouses that you have to 
take into account so it puts a different 
kind of style on their relationship than 
when you're in your 20s and you're there 
is none of those roles or people and and 
so what I would tell people is extend 
Grace and compassion to each other 
especially when you're navigating 
challenges and being supportive of those 
challenges because sometimes we see 
things differently you know he's raising 
his kids one way I raise my kids another 
way sometimes it's very similar 
sometimes it's very different that's 
okay there's no right or wrong you know 
and being supportive and helpful 
in that role that you're in as the 
girlfriend or the you know I don't know 
partner whatever you want to call it 
role um with an individual so you guys 
helped me do that I met him online and 
went on several dates 
um and it was the Slow Burn like you 
talk about not this 
um Jump Right In you know flutters we 
call the butterflies and all those 
things butterflies are bad butterflies 
are bad and what starts fast ends fast 
yes 
and so we've just been letting it 
progress the way it needs to progress so 
um but I do credit you with with giving 
me that confidence in the tools because 
I had no idea what I was doing and I and 
you didn't let me swim alone out there 
there were sharks in the water and we 
figured them out pretty quick together 
um where to swim where not to swim uh so 
I'm grateful for that so thank you Bella 
for everything you've done for me it's 
an honor 100 and Rachel tell us you 
mentioned something earlier in the show 
that I want to come back to tell us a 
little bit about what you teach at 
evolve and at healing about what you 
call the drama triangle and how we can 
stay out of the drama triangle and 
dating or how that can potentially 
affect us 
yeah this so that it's Cartman Stephen 
Cartman came up with the drama triangle 
and there's three basic roles so hence 
the triangle three points there so one 
of them is the victim role that we've 
talked quite a bit about another one is 
the persecutor or sometimes you hear it 
called in the clinical terms of 
perpetrator role and then the third one 
is the coach or excuse me The Rescuer 
The Rescuer so you have The Rescuer the 
persecutor and the victim and those are 
all three very unhealthy 
roles that we all play first of all we 
all play on the drama triangle whether 
we want to or not and the concept is to 
recognize when you're on the drama 
triangle and shift to David Emerald's 
empowerment Dynamic which has this three 
roles but they're healthy versions of 
each one of the drama triangle roles so 
in the empowerment Dynamic you have the 
Creator so the victim morphs into a 
Creator so rather than the world is 
happening to me it's about what 
opportunity does this present for me The 
Rescuer morphs into a coach so rather 
than me rescuing you and doing these 
things to help you I'm teaching you how 
to do it for yourself if that makes 
sense 
and then the persecutor becomes a 
challenger so persecutor is the person 
sitting there doing this and wagging 
their finger in your face telling you 
um you know you're a bad person you're 
never going to understand this you've 
embarrassed the family whatever it may 
be and the Challenger says wait a minute 
I know you're capable of doing more or 
you've got the skills within you to be 
more successful on whatever it may be 
and so I give the example if you think 
about in relationships 
um the person if you're going out with 
someone and they sit there and talk 
about everything their ex-spouse did to 
them 
you know oh my ex-spouse did this and 
was this and um you know they the victim 
language 
that's probably a red flag that you need 
to talk about like with your your 
coaches your dating coaches because 
someone that's consistently in the 
victim role is in a very unhealthy state 
now if you see someone that's always in 
their restaurant role which I'm a 
recovering rescuer saying that can some 
there's a lot of us out there 
um Rescuers get their own validation by 
helping someone and so what looks to be 
an altruistic motivator it's really 
self-serving because it's I Don't Feel 
Complete unless I can take care of 
someone else and I'm taking care of 
someone else so I can avoid looking at 
my own problems 
and oftentimes that rescuer gets praised 
out there oh you know you go to Great 
Aunt Sally she's really good at helping 
people solve problems and she'll help 
you fix this 
well great Aunt Sally is probably a 
rescuer you know or the parent that you 
know gives their kid money even when 
they know they shouldn't be doing that 
um you know just to 
um have them be quiet because they're 
nagging them for money you know you're 
rescuing them 
so then on the persecutor side you know 
that person will actually go to the 
Challenger and all these rules are 
really really important so an example of 
that might be in a relationship if 
you're in a relationship with someone 
who's persecuting telling you you're fat 
that dress looks horrible on you I don't 
like that color lipstick on you 
um your friends are awful I hate your 
mother you know blah blah blah blah blah 
someone that's constantly doing that 
that's going to be persecutor mentality 
and that's something I would I would run 
you'll see that a lot with the 
narcissists they Bob in that persecutor 
and that victim roll quite a bit 
uh so really and truly what someone 
should be doing is challenging you so 
for example let's say you're walking 
around saying you know I really need to 
lose some weight and your partner's 
saying yeah you're fat that's persecutor 
they say what can I do to support you 
maybe we should get up and go for a walk 
instead of sitting here watching a movie 
or whatever it may be that's challenging 
someone and that's a loving thing and 
it's coming from a place of love not 
attacking the Core Essence of what or 
who someone is if that makes sense 
you see it a lot in parenting that 
Rescuers the helicopter parent when we 
think about that in school and The 
Rescuer can't exist without a victim so 
sometimes the rescue will create their 
own victim so they can jump in and 
rescue you know and the persecutors 
oftentimes the the mean teacher or the 
school that's making this happen to this 
poor little child you know the teacher 
says you got a D on your your grade and 
the parents upset going up there to 
argue with the teacher about the child's 
D when in fact the child did earn a d on 
the the assignment 
and what the parent can do is is 
challenge a kid saying I know you know 
how to do math better Little Johnny 
let's get you a tutor let's figure out 
what we need to do and I'm gonna be here 
right here with you or helping you 
um procure those resources to be more 
successful but you're gonna have to do 
the work you're gonna have to learn how 
to do the math a rescuer would do their 
math for him and turn it in 
um and we're not going to allow you to 
be a victim we're gonna say little 
Johnny what do you need to do to be 
successful in math so that we don't get 
a d again so you see it in all aspects 
of life in all relationships but that's 
the the concept is getting recognizing 
when you're on the drama triangle and 
how to get off and I'll conclude it with 
we can play different roles at different 
time with different people 
so and in different roles within the 
same argument so it could be that you 
feel persecuted by your spouse and so 
all of a sudden you're feeling like a 
victim but then you turn yourself into 
the persecuted by firing back at that 
person 
so that happens 
um and we can also play on that drama 
triangle all by ourselves so I tell my 
clients the story about how I flirt with 
the same 20 pounds I go up and down and 
up and down and 
um there's probably a whole back story 
behind all of that isn't there always to 
wait there is and so one of the things 
that let's say I've had a really crazy 
day at work and it's been stressful and 
I come home and I know I have the little 
Blue Bell ice cream cups in my freezer 
and I love those things there's nothing 
better than one of those little blue 
ball vanilla it has to be vanilla ice 
cream cuts and so I tell myself so 
here's the victim saying I've had a 
horrible day you know woe is me and then 
The Rescuer saying you know we've got 
the ice cream in the freezer you could 
have one of those they're only 150 
calories and you did a lot of walking 
today look at your watch how many steps 
did you do you know you can have one of 
those cups and so what do I do I eat the 
ice cream then who comes out the 
persecutor right the person who comes 
out going what are you doing you didn't 
walk enough to burn off you know the 
calories in that cup you should have 
never eaten that you're never going to 
get to your goal you're completely 
um off basis and you're an idiot for 
doing that so that's that story we start 
telling ourselves and the negative 
self-talk so you can see how we can play 
in that drama triangle 
all by ourselves we don't internally 
yeah 
unbelievable well Rachel's going to be 
so kind as to give us a free gift to 
give to you which is the bad drama 
triangle and the good triangle and how 
we can revise that so when you listen to 
this make sure you go to the show notes 
and it'll take you back to Rachel's page 
on the Smart dating Academy website and 
we're going to share her online dating 
photos maybe a picture of her with Fly 
Guy some interesting comments that came 
from this episode and a download where 
you can get the drama triangle and the 
triangle you want to be in so Rachel you 
are amazing thank you so much for 
sharing so vulnerably and now knowing 
how hard it is for you to be vulnerable 
I know how hard you've come to be able 
to even talk to us today about what 
you've been through so thank you we're 
humbled and Incredibly grateful that 
you're here with us and you know is 
there any last thing last bit of Hope or 
inspiration or advice you'd like to give 
the person who's listening to this 
I would say David Emerald wrote the the 
triangle of where you want to be it's 
called the empowerment Dynamic and he 
wrote a book called Ted t-e-d it's an 
acronym for the empowerment Dynamic it's 
an easy read even if you don't like to 
read it but it's a fictitious story 
about a guy named Ted and it really 
drives this point home about the drama 
triangle and getting off that and 
getting into an empowerment mindset and 
that the power's here it's not anything 
anyone's going to do for you it's about 
you making a conscious shift in the way 
that you view the world to then provoke 
different outcomes and a different 
approach to solving your own problems so 
I highly recommend that book and I will 
send you the um drama triangle Cartman 
Stephen Cartman's drama triangle next to 
the empowerment Dynamic David Emerald 
empowerment dynamic and I appreciate 
this time together thank you so much for 
having me my gosh I'm gonna have to 
think about my own internal drama 
triangle when I stare at some Cheetos 
later in the day today I'm going to be 
the perpetrator the victim as well yes 
what's the third one rescuer The Rescuer 
yeah you've had a bad day today have the 
Cheetos you suck for eating the Cheetos 
you loser I can just hear all of my 
inner monologues now so thank you Rachel 
and for more information 
um we'll have everything in the show 
notes where you can look at Rachel and 
you can get your drama triangle so thank 
you and as usual if you love this 
episode give us five stars write a 
review tell Rachel how freaking amazing 
she is for sharing her journey of 
betrayal and healing with us until next 
time we will see you soon 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love markdators 
welcome to this week's episode and this 
love story of my friend Kathy is going 
to I'm going to use a term that she just 
used in our pre-session kind of inspired 
the pants off of you not literally but 
I'm gonna tell you why because Kathy has 
found love and she's 71 years old and 
she lives in a place where you wouldn't 
think that that was the case Kathy came 
to us and she's going to tell you her 
story of how she found love at her age 
and I just want you all to hear her 
story because for those of you who need 
hope who need some psychotic optimism 
who tell yourselves man there's nobody 
left at my age or I'm too old all of 
those mind monkeys I'm bringing Kathy on 
here to dispel all of those Bad Monkey 
mind thoughts so Kathy welcome to the 
Smart dating Academy podcast I am so 
excited to have you too thank you Bella 
for having me on I 
um I appreciate that I'm honored oh you 
guys and I just want to tell you 
listener if you to know Kathy is to love 
Kathy she literally had me at hello the 
very first time and when I first met 
Kathy I'm going to put that in quotes 
how did you hear about us Kathy 
well actually uh you were on the Steve 
Harvey Show years and years ago that's 
where I first saw you I have been 
stalking you ever since you didn't know 
that but I didn't I didn't I have been 
stalking you and listening to you and 
um you know little your words stuck with 
me 
and uh over the years and uh I did 
finally 
took the plunge and did the uh over 50 
love lab 
and that's when we actually met 
that's right we met Matt but I I have to 
tell you the funny or maybe it was yes 
so we met when you did our love lab 
Workshop dating after 50. and then you 
told me that I've been on your Instagram 
lives which yes most of you know I did 
Instagram lives religiously every 
Thursday during covid for I don't know 
almost two years but yeah and Kathy told 
me a funny story she's like you may not 
know me but this is who I am tell us the 
story of your IG handle 
my Ig handle is Kathy and my mother 
could never there my sister's name is 
Patty my mother could never get our 
names right I'm picassi my sister is 
capati so that's what you know and and 
the funny thing is I do the same thing 
with my children and grandchildren so 
don't laugh too hard it happens to you 
oh my gosh and I love that that is 
hilarious my parents did that as well 
with Ravine and Bella so it was like 
rubella right so it's so funny so Kathy 
was a an OG member of the Instagram 
family chiming in did our dating over 50 
love lab and then tell us your story of 
you know what inspired you and I 
actually and I also want you to kind of 
maybe tell us your back story tell us 
you how you grew up getting married what 
happened and how you ended up at that 
love lab 
um well I um met my husband uh at a bar 
the good old-fashioned way the good 
old-fashioned way that's what you did it 
back then and uh he saved me from some 
drunk actually and I thought oh my 
knight in shining armor and uh we dated 
we dated for two years got married 
because that was the thing you did you 
know yeah 
you know that was my background I grew 
up in a um uh an Italian I'm a battalion 
descent and family and married and kids 
and and I did all that and 
um 
fast forward 
um you know we were going to retire we 
had the kids we had a retirement house 
and 
um he had retired early from his one job 
but was too young and so he took another 
job but that required travel got it and 
so he would go back and forth uh between 
east coast and we had a place in the 
Southwest 
and uh 
the things were got kind of Rocky you 
know but it was I thought 
like any point in your marriage you're 
gonna work it out things will work out 
and I I thought they would and 
um 
I decided I was it was Mother's Day and 
I thought he's not coming home I'm gonna 
go surprise him 
and I knocked on the door 
and she answered 
and I found out 
he had been living with her for almost 
two years 
and I say that and when I say that 
people go you didn't know 
I didn't have a clue I wasn't thinking 
like that when I think back were there 
Clues yeah there were but I wasn't 
thinking like that 
um 
I was a I was a stay-at-home mom I 
didn't have a career that was my career 
my husband my children was my career so 
when he left 
um 
I was left with nothing 
wow um I have Goosebumps I was like 
actually he left I he left it was just 
before the holidays and I had four 
hundred dollars 
that was it 
that was all I had 
it's gonna make me oh my God I have 
Goosebumps I have 400 I had to borrow 
money it's gonna make me kind of I had 
to borrow money from my daughter to hire 
a divorce attorney 
it was very humbling 
um 
to say he cut me off at my knees 
is an understatement 
but I will say 
um 
what I told him is that if you think I'm 
going to curl up in a corner and die 
it ain't happening and it didn't I can't 
tell you it was easy 
it wasn't it took years and years 
but here I am 
and I do believe you go and and when it 
happened a friend of mine said this is 
going to be the hardest thing you'll 
ever do 
you're not going to be the same person 
you'll get through it but you're not 
going to be the same person and she was 
right you're not the same person 
uh I think I'm a better person 
and I think it happens you know I I 
think there's a plan for you I I think 
um 
I think I needed to be a better person I 
I would have preferred to have done it a 
different way right yes you know and I 
lost a lot I lost I lost my family 
I didn't just lose my husband I lost my 
son 
so 
I have lost 
my holidays are not the same 
uh birthdays it just all changed for me 
and I had to change my perspective 
and it wasn't an easy thing to do it 
never is 
but you do what you have to do and you 
go on you and and I felt I wasn't uh I 
felt I needed to be a role model for my 
grandchildren and for my daughter that 
life can't you never know what life is 
going to hand you 
but 
you pick yourself up and you get through 
it you do what you have to do 
and I really felt I needed to do that I 
had to show them that you you don't let 
life get you down you're better than 
that you're stronger than that 
um 
wasn't easy but again here I am 
um and 
um 
I'm in a much better place I'm happier I 
didn't realize how unhappy I was 
and I can't blame 
my ex 
completely because it takes two 
you know it takes two I made mistakes as 
well 
um and you have to own up to that you 
can't just point the finger you have to 
own up to that it takes two but um 
foreign 
here I am and life is great here you are 
and yes you know I love hearing these 
love stories even though we've worked 
together for so long because there are 
things that always come out in these 
conversations and and I don't know that 
I knew that you had four hundred dollars 
and how you know how low the low really 
was which is sort of amazing because you 
know it you know they always say things 
can always be worse and things could 
have been worse they could have yeah but 
that's pretty bad and to see you bright 
shiny and hear telling your story 
um tell us what now Flash Forward what 
year were what year was it that you got 
divorced and and then flash us forward 
to last year oh geez it's been 
um 
it's been about nine years we've 
separated 
um you know the good Catholic you know 
you don't you don't get divorced and so 
I thought well separation and 
it just you know I kept getting taken 
back to court and it's like you know 
what 
I need to sever this I just need to move 
on yeah and uh so I you know I was kind 
of dating for 
probably a good nine years and and 
thought what am I getting wrong 
I mean I would always do my hair I 
always had makeup on I always had ear I 
never went to the grocery store with 
that looking good 
people seem to like me and yet I would 
go on dates and I'd the longest 
relationship I was ever in was a year 
and 
he was a great guy he just wasn't God 
for me I couldn't 
I I just couldn't seem to connect 
with the kind of man I really wanted 
and I thought 
um 
I I got to be 70. and you know in life 
how you hit milestones and you sort of 
sit back and take a stock totally those 
zero birthdays are a big deal oh my gosh 
oh my goodness oh my goodness I and you 
know Bella I still don't know how my 
name and that number got to be in the 
same sentence I still don't understand 
that because you don't look anything 
whatever you imagine 70 to look like you 
just need to take a look at the photos 
that are on our site of this gorgeous 
woman but I I I I stand that she's 
amazing she's hashtag goals for 71. I 
want to be well 
oh yeah yeah I thank my mother for that 
um anyway I 70 I kind of took stock and 
thought 
what do I have left here 
10 maybe 15 good years 
you know I'm talking good that you're 
healthy and you could travel and so 
anything beyond that is a bonus 
and so I thought 
you know listening to Bella and thought 
you know what I am going to invest in 
myself 
and I thought this is my last shot if I 
can't do it now then I guess my ex maybe 
he's right maybe I'm not so lovable 
and maybe this is how 
I live my life I live my life alone I 
didn't want to but I thought well but I 
was gonna give it a shot 
and a year ago 
and in fact I saw you had posted 
somebody had just had their photo shoot 
and I thought that was me I had my photo 
shoot October I think it was the fifth 
yeah fourth and fifth I think it was 
October 5th last year 
I thought that was me one year ago 
and how my life has changed in one year 
I never would have believed it never I 
still don't believe it I I I'm 
I'm amazed I'm amazed anyway I did the 
photo shoot I kept putting it off I 
don't know like I lose 30 pounds I get 
it a million excuses and you and I mean 
kept saying no do it do the shoot do the 
photos wait what are you waiting for 
what are you waiting for 
and then even after the photo shoot I 
kept no no no I can't I can't I kept 
and then I thought 
what am I waiting for 
what am I waiting for tick tock tick 
tock you know 
and I did it and my problem was where I 
lived 
there was nobody around I lived in this 
little town and it was a distance from 
everything 
and you kept saying they'll come and I 
do also remember Steve Harvey way back 
saying if a man likes you if a man wants 
you he will go across the country 
to see you and I have it in the back of 
my mind and when I did uh join uh join 
Smart dating Academy I had that sliver 
of Hope in the back of my mind I I I was 
pretending to be psychotic psychotically 
optimistic for you you did it you had me 
at hello 
but I did have my doubts but I hung in 
there and you know you don't want to 
join you don't want to get online 
because there's that rejection and 
there's oh to go through it all 
but I did everything you said 
um I I I 
followed you sent that makeup video 
I changed my makeup I tweaked it because 
I always wore makeup I always did my 
hair I always I always dressed up 
um but I tweaked things and we were 
picking out outfits for the photo shoot 
oh my God and I remember I had this 
outfit on and you said to me that is 
really cute but I have a question 
are you going out with your girlfriends 
or are you going on a date with a man 
did I really say that too it sounds very 
much like me well you did and I thought 
you're right I I got it as soon as you 
said that I got it and you kept saying 
show your curves men want to see what 
they're getting show those curves she's 
curvy and gorgeous oh my gosh well I 
didn't feel like it at the time you know 
uh 30 pounds 40 pounds heavier I sure 
didn't feel like it but I did what you 
said the point is I listened to you I 
did what you said I got those career 
clothes in fact in fact if you remember 
when I had the photo shoot I said to you 
can we Photoshop these pictures 
and you said no we don't do that no no 
we do not Photoshop but Smart dating 
Academy no no the First Act of 
self-sabotage right first of all she's 
beautiful and probably like you dear 
listener you think ugh I'm too heavy I'm 
too old and we see through all of that 
and we see the beauty in you we 
certainly saw the beauty in Kathy who 
thought she needed to be photoshopped 
anybody listening to this you don't need 
to be photoshopped maybe a couple of 
tweaks here and there get your Berry lip 
on get some clothes yes you look like 
you love yourself you're going on a date 
and when we talk about curves we're not 
talking about we want you to look 
hoochie hot mama 
we are pretty we are sophisticated we 
are elegant at Smart dating yes exactly 
and I still remember that you know it's 
when I go out it's wait a minute who am 
I going out with Ruben or am I and where 
am I going here so I remember those you 
you I like you shoot from the hip and I 
like it 
it kind of sticks with me yeah so right 
right anyway so I did that and you know 
there were 
when you get older 
dating is different I I say dating and 
when you're 60 and your 70s is different 
than when you're in your 60s I don't 
know where it makes the change 
but it does 
um I I jokingly say I date in dog years 
because it's it's kind of accelerated 
it's it's sort of 
I don't think you you don't you still 
don't know exactly what you want you 
think you do but really not but you're 
very clear at least for me very clear on 
what I didn't want yeah you know 
everybody wants the tall handsome 
worldly 
successful and you think the package is 
what you want 
and it's not necessarily that 
and you guys taught me 
expanded a little bit just just a little 
bit and I did that I listened to 
everything not only listened I did 
everything you said to do 
and Eileen was my coach and Eileen 
sweet patient Eileen everybody loves 
Eileen yes yes yes and she um guided me 
through you know do this do that anyway 
fast forward 
um in January the one thing I did do uh 
is video dating I did do the video and 
that I cannot recommend that enough it 
is a game changer 
it really you know you 
um 
you you send text and email and the 
written word can be misinterpreted I and 
I find when I speak with someone you get 
a different sense of them when you do 
video 
it's even better 
because you see them in 3D and it's like 
oh yeah I can see how they look like 
that picture I can it's a better sense 
of them 
and 
um I did that and it really 
um eliminated a lot of these older men 
oh my goodness oh I don't know how I 
gotta have my son show me I had a 
migraine and I would say it's not that 
hard I'm not tech savvy I can walk you 
through it and I thought you know what 
if you don't even want to put in the 
effort 
you're done and so it eliminated a lot 
of people for me 
um 
so that that part was good 
anyway Along Comes Reuben 
and I what I did is 
um I tweaked my age 
um the I was going for 
older I was going I think for 70 to 76 
or something like that well 
you know some of these older men I swear 
I could hear the feet Shuffle you know 
that old man feet Shuffle I swear I 
could hear it 
no no no no or they'd say you know I had 
a stroke but I'm doing really good oh 
man or 
um you know one guy I even had oh my 
goodness one guy had to have his teeth 
he had his teeth taken out 
but he got on a video with me 
with no teeth 
oh my God aren't you glad you did the 
video right oh my goodness oh my 
goodness can you imagine that it's like 
this is your best foot forward oh no oh 
no no no 
anyway so I tweaked it to a little bit 
younger 
and uh 
there was Reuben 
and uh Reuben's about a year and a half 
younger than I am 
uh he's still in his 60s and he reminds 
me of that I I do have to say 
wait he um got online and you and Eileen 
kept saying somebody will because I kept 
saying distance is a problem nobody 
wants to travel nobody wants to travel 
I'm a couple hours away 
and that was the story you were telling 
yourself from day one there are no 
people I there's no people around here 
and no age-appropriate people and and so 
you started to see even before Reuben 
you were getting once you improve your 
photos you improve your profile you have 
someone helping you you started to build 
a funnel and yes sometimes I have 55 
year olds telling me I'm too old for 
this there's no good men my age I'm like 
oh my gosh there are so many good people 
out there we just have to do a bunch of 
things right so you started to see this 
funnel of people in your state 
I did and you know what changed too is 
the type of person because before it was 
um oh I like hunting and I like and it's 
like oh Lord 
um you know I'm hunting and I like 
and I don't mean I like hunting I like 
fishing I like I live in my RV and it's 
like that's all good but that's not me 
but that's just not me 
um 
not that I haven't done that but it's 
just not me it's it's not what I what I 
wanted for my classy gal well I don't I 
anyway but and I was Finding different 
men I I was Finding different men 
um and distance still was a problem it 
was and it eliminated some of the men 
um which was okay because you know what 
if I'm not worth the trip 
then goodbye you know then uh then then 
you don't get the privilege absolutely 
anyway Along Comes Reuben and uh Reuben 
had this 
you know kind of text back and forth and 
I learned don't you text back and forth 
just a couple of times then and it was 
hey do you want to do a video 
and Reuben was 
something new yeah let's try it and 
before I could even explain to him how 
to do it he did it he he did it he 
called me 
and I thought I like that he was 
open to new things he just had an energy 
about him that I really liked 
and so we started doing these videos 
this video dating and we did that 
several times a week and I know Lindsay 
always said don't do more than 20 
minutes 20 minutes and be done don't do 
well Reuben and I would talk never less 
than two hours the time just flew by 
what I did do 
um is like I don't know if you know uh 
Arthur Aaron have you heard yeah the 
questions the 36 questions 
Reuben and I did the 36 questions 
and it really created such conversation 
and we really got to know one another 
so that when we met and we had we did 
videotape we did 
um we would have wine you know let's 
let's have some wine and and you know 
and appetizers and we would have dinner 
remember Lindsay saying that we would 
have dinner we so we we just had fun 
dates and this is before you ever met in 
person all of this was happening in 
person you did and for those if you're 
listening and you don't know who Arthur 
Aaron is it's a-r-o-n and he is very 
famous for saying if you ask these 36 
questions of a romantic partner and then 
stare into each other's eyes for five 
minutes you know and there's a series I 
can I'll post the questions in the show 
notes but it's really interesting and 
it's amazing that you did that before 
you met for the first time it's amazing 
that you've suggested it and that he did 
it I love how he showed you like you're 
saying this desire for growth change and 
development I will vibe check you I'll 
call you something new yeah let's do the 
question now let's have wine and 
appetizers and it was I'm gonna use my 
favorite word in relationships easy it 
was he yes he was he is easy 
he is and he was he's open to new things 
when I suggested because if he didn't 
want to do the questions I wouldn't have 
done it sure but it got you know it's 
funny as I said before you know I hadn't 
dated in what 40 42 years and when I was 
dating then you go to a bar and the 
question was what's your sign 
well as you get older the question then 
becomes are those your teeth you know it 
changes itself 
[Laughter] 
hey baby are those your teeth 
oh I'm a Pisces by the way but yeah 
exactly exactly oh my God anyway 
um so we did these questions 
and you really 
you kind of know the person 
you you learn their values you learn 
um their core you learn who they really 
are 
so by the time we met and it was about 
we did it for about three weeks 
so by the time we met 
we knew each other it was different from 
any other date that I was on 
and uh Reuben showed up 
and he had a dozen roses a dozen yellow 
roses for me oh because that was 
friendship and he said you know I'm 
giving you yellow roses they signify 
friendship and I'm hoping they change 
and every time I saw him I got roses 
and as our dates change and he would 
come and and he and he said oh you're 
only two and a half hours away that's 
nothing 
oh did you guys hear did you hear that 
he was two and a half hours away in a 
rural Southwestern State so two and a 
half it can take me two and a half hours 
to get from the north side of the south 
side of Chicago on a Friday afternoon 
when the when the Cubs are playing so 
here two and a half hours how many miles 
is that oh my gosh that was like 300 he 
I mean he was in a different state 
he came from a different state two and 
he went oh too many Affairs that's 
nothing and I thought 
Bella and Eileen were right 
Steve Harvey 
they were right it was like oh that's 
nothing and he would come and every time 
he came 
I got roses to this day 
I get roses every week 
oh yeah they're red although although 
um 
this is a kind of a side thing I had 
said to him you know my favorite color 
my favorite flowers are really white I 
love white flowers 
and I get white roses now 
there are always fresh flowers in the 
house always to this day anyway 
um 
so Reuben comes and we 
we just hit it off I mean he just 
it was like we knew each other it was so 
he's easy he's just easy 
um 
I I I and I guess what I really want to 
say when you asked you know to do the 
podcast I guess when I started there 
wasn't anybody out there my age there 
were women 
um in their maybe late 50s early 60s but 
there wasn't anybody 
in their 70s and it's really different 
in your 70s it really is 
um even 70 to 75 oh my goodness the 
difference in men is like 
oh my goodness oh my goodness 
um and and I wish that there was 
somebody out there 
so I guess I'm out here to say 
don't give up 
there there's a lid for your pop there 
is a lid for your pot you just listen to 
Bella she knows what she's doing just 
listen just just 
um it works it works and I I didn't 
change myself overnight I didn't like I 
said I've always done my hair I was 
wearing jewelry I've always dressed like 
dress up to go to the grocery store I 
tweaked myself 
I put my best so far I was missing I 
couldn't figure out what I was doing 
wrong 
and um Bella and Eileen showed me so 
listen it works it really works 
um get your funnel 
uh do their tricks do the video dating 
it's um it is a game changer 
have a good mindset tweet believe it 
just new photos get the the photos oh my 
oh my God what a difference that made 
what a difference that made 
um just those little things 
here I am here I am a year later uh 
Reuben and I are together 
uh he asked me a couple months ago to 
move in with him I feel like I feel like 
this has gone you know some people have 
said don't you think you're going too 
fast and again I say well first of all 
we're dating in dog years so there is 
that tick tock 
um but also it's um 
I think you know 
I think for by four six months you kind 
of know 
you know and he asked me a couple months 
ago uh to move in with him 
and he is so sweet he asked my daughter 
for her blessing 
oh my God I'm full Goosebumps wow wow 
wow I mean how and and 
you guys dated granted we dated in dog 
years but yes we did but you followed 
the rules and even when there were 
speed bumps you could navigate through 
those speeds yes which happen at any age 
you had a surgery what happened what 
happened well I had I had to have my hip 
replaced and 
um you know and I had said listen you 
know what you need to back away you know 
stay away for six weeks you need to just 
um I I think I I was pushing him away 
and I kept doing it and he kept saying 
no I want to be there and finally he 
said to me you know you're not letting 
me you're not allowing me to be your 
partner I want to be your partner and 
you're not allowing me 
and that really took me back because I 
thought he's right 
he he's you get the good the bad the 
ugly 
that's 
you know that's the reality of a 
relationship 
and the funny thing about it was okay 
fine you do it and and he was there he 
would he would be there during the week 
he would leave on the weekend to go to 
his house and you know he got to 
maintain it 
it was in the summer and what happened 
is it actually Drew us closer 
because I mean physically I couldn't I 
was kind of homebound 
so we had to sit there and we had to 
talk and we had to have conversation and 
we got to know each other even better 
so 
um 
it's kind of funny the thing you fear 
the most 
can actually be to your benefit 
and uh yeah I I kept pushing him away 
and nope he nope wasn't going to do it 
wasn't gonna happen 
and he didn't he's been there every step 
of the way 
the good thing about Reuben is he's 
taught me 
how a relationship should really be 
I mean we have our disagreements we have 
our arguments it's not perfect 
I am but that's a different story 
I can vouch for your profession yeah 
yeah yeah but the thing with him and and 
he taught me I didn't know 
you could disagree 
without it being this full-blown 
argument and when you have the 
conversation 
and you resolve it 
it's gone 
it's it's just gone and I never knew 
that's what you did 
I just 
um before when you had a disagreement it 
was always such a full-blown argument I 
would try to avoid it 
that doesn't work 
that doesn't work with Reuben if we have 
you know we something happens that we 
don't like it I mean just the other day 
we had a disagreement 
but we sit down and say you know I don't 
like that you did that I don't like how 
you said it I don't okay all right and 
we resolve it and then we move on 
so he has taught me that we also 
um we're committed to make this work he 
was in a 32-year marriage I was in a 
four-year marriage 
and uh so we we want a relation we don't 
want to go through that again 
and we are do we go to classes 
we go to classes too every Tuesday night 
we go uh how to be how to be in a bit 
how to be a better partner 
I think we're the only ones that aren't 
married in this whole thing we're the 
oldest ones I think and the only ones 
not married but 
um we have the experience to know what 
not to do we may not 
know everything to do but we're 
committed to make this work and 
um I'm amazed that I was able to find a 
man like Ruben I have been looking 
for a man like him 
for what 10 years now 
and 
I did what you I kept missing I kept 
missing the mark 
and thanks to you 
I did it I found it I found him and he's 
not in the package that I thought he 
would be you know you want tall and dark 
well I'm 5'4 so you know even five six 
is tall for me 
Reuben's taller and you know I was 
always looking for um you know someone 
tall and who would protect me and you 
know this big guy 
Reuben isn't bad I mean he's just 
average you know he's he's trim he's in 
shape he's 5 10. and yet I feel very 
secure and protected with him he's not 
the package that I would have thought 
I wanted 
and yet he is the one 
and you guys taught me that expand your 
horizons just expand it just tweak it 
just that little bit and the funny thing 
is he did the same thing 
is he was looking 
for he he wasn't he didn't have 70. he 
had 60s in his and he tweaked his to 
include 70 and there I popped wow and 
actually he was the one that contacted 
me 
and I won't ever let him forget that 
absolutely it's like 
yes but had he not 
he not had I 
lowered my age 
we would not have crossed we may not 
have crossed paths 
so it's those those little things do 
matter 
100 yes yes and we were so fortunate 
number one to be able to help guide this 
relationship along and 
there are people that have no red flags 
like Reuben you didn't have butterflies 
in your stomach right there weren't I 
anger and stonewalling and even though 
we date in dog years it's not too fast 
and furious and even though he gave you 
flowers every week that's not love 
bombing this is someone who showed up 
and wanted to do something nice for you 
yes was seeking love and seeking love 
with you and something you told me in a 
conversation recently is that touched my 
heart and I wanted to touch yours dear 
listener is you said Reuben makes me 
feel so good about myself and he makes 
me feel smart yes yes you know we're 
involved in different things he's he's 
on a board and things come up and 
in my past in my marriage 
I was made to my my opinion 
I wasn't smart enough I wasn't 
uh you know I wasn't 
worthy of having an opinion when Reuben 
seeks me out what do you think 
what would you know who how what do you 
think of this or he'll he asked my 
opinion we have conversation 
and and I hear him talk to other people 
and he'll say oh Kathy is so smart Kathy 
this or cat wait till you meet Kathy you 
you will love her 
and I hear him say this and I think 
wow he 
I I haven't you know I I didn't realize 
in my marriage 
I wasn't hit I wasn't abused in that way 
but I was made to feel small I was made 
to feel less than I didn't matter 
and I didn't realize it you know you 
learned to shrink 
and I don't have to shrink with Ruben 
I don't I could be 
and that is one thing uh after the 
marriage that in therapy and you know if 
I you know therapy helped too is I 
learned 
I got my voice 
and that was one thing I was not going 
to give up I found my voice and Reuben 
allows me 
to have my voice 
and he makes me a better person he he 
really does uh we're good for each other 
we have each other's backs we um 
you know it's 
you know we have you know the children 
you you would think adult children would 
never be a problem oh my goodness boy oh 
my goodness they can be it's it really 
is difficult and uh you know reuben 
reuben has my back if you don't include 
Kathy then then you don't want me 
and yeah so he's and we're there for 
each other 
and I didn't think I would ever find 
this I didn't think it was there I 
thought really when I thought Steve 
Harvey and you guys saying oh people 
will travel I thought 
that's for the younger people people 
with a career people 
professional people I was a stay-at-home 
mom I didn't 
that wasn't me 
yeah you meant me 
oh you got to believe it it's there you 
just have to keep you just keep plugging 
away you just you get the rejection and 
you just 
pick yourself up and you go on to the 
next one say okay fine then then you 
know what you you have to change your 
way of thinking you don't have to you 
don't look at it that they don't I'm not 
good enough for them you have to think 
they did you a favor 
they did you a favor by eliminating them 
themselves exactly exactly change your 
perspective 
you know one of the things I know when 
we worked with you and on your marriage 
map contract because you're one of our 
one-on-one clients I put this phrase in 
saying I want him to like you just a 
little bit more yes like him like you're 
51 and he's 49 and what you're saying is 
exactly right that if they choose to not 
message you or eliminate you well they 
didn't hit our rubric so goodbye to you 
that's right right that's right they did 
me a favor they did me a favor bless and 
release bless and release exactly 
exactly exactly you know it's still you 
know it gets sometimes they're hard hits 
yeah but 
you know it's life 
that's life and years that's life yeah 
and you are so different right like you 
said you emerged from your divorce a 
difference oh my goodness 
and you emerged through dating as a 
different person oh my goodness oh my 
goodness 
you know I I also jokingly say there's a 
lot of frogs out there a lot of frogs 
before you find your prince but he's out 
there 
he is out there and what would you tell 
people that think I'm too old I'm in my 
50s my 60s my 70s what would you tell 
them 
I would tell them believe he's out there 
he or she they're out there you just you 
just have to keep keep the faith as they 
said back in the day keep the faith baby 
keep the faith you have to believe 
that you're worthy because you are 
you are you are lovable there it you're 
just not finding the person it doesn't 
mean it has nothing to do with you 
you just haven't found the person 
and 
um you know maybe you need to tweak 
things and and maybe you need the 
professionals to come in you do it for 
everything else 
so why not for that if you go to the 
makeup counter and yeah tell the girl do 
my makeup because I want to look better 
well how is this different 
yeah I I I'm I'm missing the mark on 
dating help me what am I doing wrong 
coach me yeah you know so 
uh do what you have to do but they're 
out there 
and you just 
you know you don't get the brass ring 
every time you go around the 
Merry-Go-Round sometimes you have to go 
around a few times but you get it 
and you keep trying you keep putting 
yourself out there and um it's not easy 
and as you get older I will say it's um 
I don't want to say slim pickings but 
it's different different it is different 
it it is different and um and I don't 
know when it happens I don't know when 
that transition happens but it does 
happen 
and um you know like anything in life 
you just make those side steps then 
you just move along 
and love will come to you it always does 
it takes time for some of our clients 
it's taken three four five six years for 
some 
lucky people when the universe also says 
it's your time he entered your doorstep 
you know halfway through the process and 
for that there's Powers beyond all of us 
that yes that to happen and so you know 
the universe said Kathy you've got to do 
a couple things and you knew to take 
actions you knew I'm gonna change things 
I'm going to do this love lab I'm going 
to get some coaching around there and 
you listened to that voice inside of you 
because I wouldn't have known and Eileen 
wouldn't have known and you wouldn't 
have known that two and a half hours 
away hundreds of miles away across the 
state line was the lid to your pot and 
yes and I have I've had goosebumps 
literally I'm gonna have to have like 
some hot cocoa after this because 
everything we're talking about has given 
me goosebumps you've inspired me thank 
you for sharing your story whatever age 
you are my friend if you're in your 30s 
40s 50s 60s 70s you feel like Kathy felt 
you feel like when there's a zero that 
gets put at the end of your age things 
are going to change the pickings are 
going to get Slimmer I hear this from 
people that turn 30 40 50 60 and 70. 
right there is no Cliff right it is so 
much of this is also the story that 
we're telling ourselves so if you are 
inspired by this I'm telling you love 
exists for you Kathy is screaming from 
the rooftops love is out there for you 
and I hope that you're as inspired as I 
am to do the tweaks to make the changes 
to get the help to do whatever it is you 
need to find love and do you have any 
parting words of inspire or wisdom for 
our listener uh just listen to Bella 
just hang in there hang in there it it 
as Bella said when the timing is right 
it'll happen you just but you got to put 
yourself out there and you got to be 
willing you have to be willing to do the 
work 
and 
it falls into place it just happens when 
you least expect it and in a package 
you didn't know that you wanted and 
there it is it's 
it's amazing it's 
I'm in awe I I can't believe it I'm I 
pinch myself and I am 
I will forever be grateful 
to you and to Eileen and even Steve 
Harvey 
for giving me inspiration and uh 
and if I could help anybody in their 70s 
um 
hang in there 
hang in there it will happen hang in 
there and for those of you in your 30s 
40s 50s 60s and you think you're too old 
she's saying hang in there to all of you 
what would you tell them are they old 
when they're 30 40 50. oh my goodness 
hell no coffee pot I have a coffee pot 
older than that 
oh Kathy I can't wait for you and Ruben 
to come to Chicago and we're gonna have 
dinner and we're gonna do this to your 
beautiful love so thank you from the 
bottom of my heart for being my friend 
and you and I feel like we are friends 
we have been friends maybe we were 
connected in another life but I'm so 
glad that our paths are crossed and I 
know that we will have dinner and 
appetizers in person or hell we can do a 
video date with the two of you and me 
and Andy yes yes well we're going to 
travel more so yes yes right well thank 
you thank you and dear listener I hope 
that you have as many Goosebumps as I do 
right now and I hope that you're feeling 
the hope and The Psychotic optimism to 
make some changes and to know that love 
is out there for you no matter where you 
are rural or Suburban or Urban what part 
of the planet you're on it doesn't 
matter but believe in your heart that 
love will exist for you and it does 
exist for you and keep doing the things 
and fighting the good fight and the love 
will come to you we promise it will and 
in psychotic optimism I leave you with a 
giant hug pink sparkly wave of my wand 
and until next week we'll see you later 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back to this week's 
episode of the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I hope you've been enjoying all 
of our content we have today we've 
talked about dating in a lot of 
different ages right but there's one 
particular age group also that we work 
with a lot and we hadn't addressed and I 
think it's a very large group of people 
and it's dating when you're in your 30s 
and you're professional and you're 
successful and you're now realizing wow 
I think I'd like to find the lid to my 
pot I think I'd like to maybe get 
married I think I'd maybe like to have 
kids so I am bringing you this week's 
Love Story which is a wonderful 
former client who is now engaged spoiler 
alert and I'd like to call her a very 
good friend as well I'm happy to have my 
good friend Nikki who is planning her 
wedding Nikki thank you for joining us 
thank you for having me it's great to be 
here very exciting time oh my gosh so 
how is wedding planning going 
it's going yeah that sounds about right 
we're getting there but it's a lot of a 
lot of pieces to pull together so I'll 
be excited when we've made a few more 
decisions have that date but it's fun 
it's very fun yeah oh my gosh well can 
you ever imagine yourself five years ago 
being in this place right now let's kind 
of go back let's let's let's reminisce a 
little so you dear listener know 
um how Nikki how did we meet 
so I feel like the first time we met I 
always think at least I mean that all 
kind of runs together but I think it was 
at a holiday party 
with work and you were the plus one 
because I actually worked with Andy okay 
yeah I remember you shared what you did 
for work and I just glued myself to you 
for the rest of the party because I was 
very much I was probably in my early 
mid-20s at the time was doing everything 
Chicago had to offer when it came to 
dating and so when you said that you 
were a coach in that space I was 
fascinated and and obviously we totally 
hit it off and you're just such a ray of 
light as well so yeah I think it was at 
a holiday party back probably around 
2008 2009 something like that wow okay 
and so if right you're right it was 2008 
2009 well probably a little bit after 
that I started in 2009 so yeah let's say 
it was more than tennis years ago so 
between the time that we met kind of 
take us through you know what your life 
looked like as a city girl dating what 
was going well what wasn't like you know 
just kind of give us the background 
yeah 
so Chicago in my 20s was in many ways 
you know the best time 
um I had really you know great jobs at 
the time I was really focused on careers 
so I was you know sort of often thinking 
about life through that lens so I was 
doing cool things for work 
um you know had come out of undergrad 
was kind of before grad school at that 
point so just really heads down and 
doing interesting things that I really 
loved I had a great group of girlfriends 
uh who I'm still close with today in a 
lot of cases and so you know we were 
just taking advantage of everything the 
city had to offer traveling all the time 
you know I think they probably would 
have put a limit on how often we were 
going to Nashville if they could have at 
some point 
it was the time to be alive uh and you 
know we all were trying to date I think 
as well but I you know emphasized the 
word trying because it just was not I 
think we all sometimes we've reflected 
on it since you know we loved being a 
group and we sort of had our 
relationship as a reference point you 
know girlfriend relationship and so it 
would talk a lot about these dates and 
it was like if it wasn't you know the 
most amazing most fun you know could be 
hanging out with each other for you know 
a night right then there was a lot of 
pressure to 
think about whether or not you wanted to 
keep pursuing it so I think we're you 
know trying to date but probably didn't 
have the right tools and then not 
prioritizing it I think in hindsight as 
much as you know work or the fun things 
we were doing together so it was 
definitely a good time of life but 
um as much as I thought I wanted to be 
in a relationship I'm not sure I was 
really putting you know putting that 
front of mind or putting the effort in 
as much as I could have been well I love 
what you're saying that it's like dating 
sort of fits in around activities with 
friends and work as priorities in school 
and then when you do go out on a date 
you want to feel that oh my God 
overwhelming chemistry overwhelming 
fireworks otherwise it's like meh back 
to the pond 
yeah and obviously you know you you want 
to feel something but yeah I think what 
what that something should feel like and 
probably also was influenced a lot by 
you know I was more I hadn't dated a ton 
at that point like real relationships so 
it was a lot of like the rom-com times 
of my you know Middle School years that 
probably also were influencing you know 
what you expected and so yeah it was I 
think the little bit of misaligned in 
terms of what was what would be 
realistic for a first or second date 
well I always say that right it's like 
so many people come to us and you're you 
know lucky that you figured this out at 
such a young age but sometimes in our 
40s 50s 60s even it's like we're 
expecting that whoosh and if we don't 
feel that excitement right away on the 
first date we're very ready to throw 
someone back to the pond right because 
that's what social media that's what 
Hollywood rom-coms right and that's what 
our single friends tell us like Ugh if 
you're not feeling anything forget about 
it because let's see who else you know 
was in my inbox this morning and that's 
so often not the right decision but 
we'll come back to that in a little bit 
so if this resonates with you and if 
your picker is broken I'll just tell you 
don't worry it's not your fault almost 
everybody's picker is broken and it 
requires a little bit of introspection 
maybe right having a coach or somebody 
walk you through this process to become 
more conscious of what it is you want so 
what are the other things that that you 
were doing I love how you talked about 
some vintage dating Concepts what were 
you doing during this time I mean I 
definitely you know I feel like I was 
doing everything like it was sort of 
this Obsession or at least everything in 
a category of things which was like the 
the pool you know like where can I find 
people I feel like we back in the day 
had talked about 
um like when we were starting you know 
the coaching engagement the like meeting 
people in real life and occasionally 
again with the girlfriends we'd you know 
get that going but more often than not 
all the dating apps were starting to 
come out around that time 
um I guess like truly apps were still 
new the websites were like where I sort 
of started that dating career and so it 
was like you know originally match and I 
remember like writing long messages to 
people like you know dear so so and so 
and then like signing it you know like 
you're actually emailing like a letter 
back and forth like a letter yeah and 
then there was um something this website 
called how about we I don't know if you 
remember this but it was like I do I 
know the founder of how about we dude 
like I actually liked that one it was 
like date concept so you know that kind 
of take all the back and forth of the 
planning like oh we should meet up what 
do you like to do I don't know what do 
you want to you know it was like Hey do 
you I think it was like hey do you want 
to go do this thing you know on this 
date like go away yeah how about we take 
trapeze lessons together right and if 
you're up for a a meet-up like that 
let's do it together so I do I like that 
because it takes a lot of the pressure 
off of dating but there is no more how 
about we no no that one that was one of 
the good ones to me but then like match 
had events so I remember going to you 
know it wasn't really speed dating I 
think it was more like singles events I 
definitely did speed dating I did 
Catholic speed dating I did match making 
you know whatever you did you did 
matchmaking also I don't know that I 
knew that about unique not not very long 
but you know one of those or I think it 
was matchmaking or something where it's 
like you know they have a list of 
clients there was a specific uh 
Champagne Bar that you would go to and 
you know meet up with people so yeah you 
name it like Okay Cupid was a was a big 
one there's not as much story around 
that but you know it's funny how much 
that's changed because I think I 
probably spent two or three years on 
those types of sites before the you know 
bumbles and hinges and coffee meets 
bagels and tinders came around 
but yeah I was I was everywhere anything 
that you know seemed like again thinking 
about like ways I was sort of not 
investing correctly like that seemed 
like I was putting a lot in but it was a 
lot of the same like more places to find 
profiles you know or right candidates 
right right right and all the while so 
you and I had already met we met at a 
cocktail party and then years go by and 
you're doing all of these cool things 
and then at a certain point 
I always say life gives us an inflection 
point right it's like that moment in 
time where things change what made you 
kind of sit back and go okay I think 
it's time to do this I think it's time 
to change things up because you would 
tried matchmaking you had tried speed 
dating events the apps meeting people in 
real life taking trapeze lessons how 
about we so what was that moment where 
you're like okay and how old were you 
ish 
well it's funny because I think 
you know there was a moment but there 
were also a few other sort of big chunks 
in there 
um one of and this is hilarious you'll 
this is another thing you'll probably 
say you didn't know and it's not totally 
true but I went to grad school somewhere 
in the middle and I had known people 
actually again from the co-workers that 
we knew in common you know people that 
had met people at business school so 
part of me was also like oh business 
school like that'll be that'll be that 
the chance you know like I should go to 
business school to meet someone I went 
to business school for my career but 
like in the back of my mind I thought 
you know maybe that would would also be 
a way to you know a bunch of people from 
all over the place somewhat like-minded 
your MBA would turn into an MRS essay 
yeah I would say that too aloud uh but 
that didn't happen and then I moved to 
LA 
and I think it was you know just a lot 
of change initially and a lot to sort of 
get 
um settled into and so there was just a 
period where I like I was still dating 
technical but I was even further almost 
from being ready because I was just you 
know adjusting to all these new 
variables post-grad school being back at 
work different industry entirely 
different city you know meeting new 
friends and so I think finally it's 
funny because it was like the end of 
2019 which we all know you know that 
that timing was important for a 
different reason but end of 2019 not 
knowing a pandemic was coming the next 
year 
um I just I think I finally sort of had 
settled into my life here and you know 
when you look back on as I would say 
like as somebody who's very achievement 
oriented to look back on whatever that 
was then almost you know 10 years of 
trying to date probably from about 24 to 
34 with really nothing to show for it I 
was like okay this like if this was 
anything else in my professional life I 
would seek outside counsel because a 
10-year track record with no results is 
that not really uh I probably wouldn't 
still have that job you know if that was 
a job 
I think it was just like it had been 
long enough and I was you know getting 
older like obviously you think you're 
thinking about timelines for kids and 
stuff right like it was just like yeah 
something has to change because clearly 
I'm not succeeding at this on my own 
right right right so you engaged Us in 
2019 pre-covered is that right yeah yeah 
that's so amazing that it's been you 
know three-ish years almost exactly and 
and so you fly to Chicago 
and you start this process tell us a 
little bit about you know about what 
that started for you 
yeah I mean I think uh and I've told you 
know many people or I've reflected this 
back to different people over the years 
since so there's a few kind of lessons 
when I really think back on it that are 
changes that I think came out of working 
with you and with Lindsay and with the 
process 
um because I did need to sort of shift a 
few there are a few big things about how 
I was trying to date and what I was 
expecting from dating that I think 
weren't quite working so 
one of the big learnings for me was 
um I was very you know and I think I've 
been I mentioned a couple times that 
like professionally I work in business 
you know at some point in the LA job 
actually I was very much building a team 
used to like you know reviewing the 
resume and trying to figure out okay 
should we bring this person in for an 
interview a second interview you know so 
this like process of let me look at 
something on paper and try to decide yes 
or no you know get a long ways towards 
the decision just from paper like the 
apps had all also you know from in a 
dating sense that sort of said that same 
construct up right like oh if I just 
know whether they smoke or not or want 
kids or not or what they put for their 
religion or you know like then I can 
quickly narrow it down and so I can you 
know be very targeted in these dates 
that I'm going on and so one of the big 
things that I think from the Smart 
dating Academy process and working with 
you guys was just realizing I need to 
actually get to know so people not 
profiles like maybe you do you screen to 
some extent but if I was screening out 
you know 90 just based on a 
two-dimensional view like let's you know 
cut that in half or cut that in you know 
cut that down by some percentage where 
you're going out with more people and 
meeting real people more real people 
less you know profiles so I think that 
was one of the first things just like 
thinking about the funnel and thinking 
about you know how many interactions 
like real interactions I was having 
um that was a big one of the big shifts 
for me among a couple others but yeah 
it's looking at and like you're saying 
developing your dating funnel and it's 
so easy to get stuck on the quantitative 
things right how old is he what are his 
degrees how much money does he make and 
here what you started to do is well we 
call them high GHQ guys right so you go 
through this process you know the kind 
of partner that's going to make you 
happy and now it's being more conscious 
of who you're letting in and then my 
guess is and you can certainly tell us 
about this more it's not being so quick 
to throw people back to the pond if 
we're not feeling that Elusive and I put 
this in air quotes it right away where 
you're like wow okay so tell us about 
that did it change you're building this 
funnel and now you're evaluating people 
more holistically and giving the whole 
person a chance yeah I think the thing I 
totally totally agree and you're totally 
on the right you know track with where 
where it went next 
um but I I think of another piece of 
kind of the early part of the process 
with you 
um that like was even sort of more 
transformational and how to think about 
that because I remember you know 
thinking about kind of rules around how 
many dates and stuff like that but I 
think what really connected with me on 
like how do I actually evaluate once 
they're in the process 
um was an exercise that we had done 
around like people in your life who 
really make you happy like your your 
elevator people and thinking about who 
those people are and I remember you know 
if I would put a paper profile together 
of who those people were for me it's 
like you know I you couldn't pick out of 
a crowd or I wouldn't have guessed that 
that's what their stats would have been 
or that's who those people would have 
been and there was not really that much 
in common in terms of you know their 
demographics or whatever right it was 
all about how they made me feel and how 
they treated me and you know things that 
the big Point here is like also things 
that had developed over a long time 
right like so half the people on the 
list that were like my most treasured 
people and I feel like we all have these 
stories it's like when I first met them 
this like I didn't you know I thought 
they were like this or I you know wasn't 
sure if we were gonna hit it off or it 
you know took a while for like that 
person didn't you know walk into my life 
of my best friend that person became my 
best friend over time and over these you 
know interactions that really it was 
about how they showed up not who they 
were on you know you know paper or even 
even initially how we sort of interacted 
with each other so I think just like for 
me reframing that you know you don't you 
don't get that just instantly and you 
don't even you can't see it and you have 
like real lived examples and other 
relationships where it took a while I 
think that was for me the key to then 
understanding okay I'm looking for 
different things I'm giving it different 
time like you know but but I think to 
what you're saying too like somebody 
who's sort of showing up consistently 
doing small things that show a bigger 
version of who they are versus what 
they're saying or you know the 
conversation or whatever yeah just kind 
of thinking on those other relationship 
examples in my life and then thinking 
about okay well if I was if I was 
looking for a best friend not a partner 
you know how would I think about that it 
probably would look different than how I 
was treating dating and some mobile 
dating is really looking for a best 
friend so I love that I always say once 
we go through that list and figure out 
who your elevator people really are it's 
like okay here's you want to find an 
elevator person who you'd want to sleep 
with basically it's pretty simple at 
that point and you're right it takes 
time for those things to develop and you 
know what your green flags are but also 
then understanding what red flags are 
around the process as well that get 
people screened out and what's really 
interesting and important during this 
process is knowing okay if my picker's 
broken great I can have elevator people 
okay great but what I really realized 
over the last decade is when we're 
acclimated when we're used to having 
people with red flags around us we don't 
even feel the red flags right so having 
holding people's hands through this 
process of going yeah no that is a red 
flag right sometimes our skin becomes so 
thick over time of dealing with toxic 
people that we don't even know what a 
red flag is so 
um so back to how you okay so now you 
consciously know you're going to look 
for an elevator people what changed I 
really remember our first meeting at the 
Four Seasons and where we were really 
talking about okay how do you present 
yourself during a date what do you tell 
us about out that meeting and what you 
remember yeah yeah that was I think if 
if there were three things that was sort 
of the third thing this like you know 
how do you start filling the funnel how 
do you what am I looking for but then to 
your point I think there was also this 
how what am I projecting how am I 
showing up kind of personally on the 
date and to the earlier comment I was a 
little bit conscious of this before we 
met at the Four Seasons that you know 
maybe I am kind of interviewing or you 
know decide like I feel like I'm trying 
to decide something versus like I am 
also being evaluated or being you know 
it's not even an evaluation but you know 
at that time I was so like in this you 
know rubric world of decisions or 
whatever and so I think 
um I was you know coming across 
potentially pretty intense and not 
necessarily like getting you know 
getting the second date not thinking as 
much about getting the second day that's 
fighting if I wanted to have the second 
date 
um and I also would talk a lot about 
work so that was I remember very 
distinctly that you guys asked me to do 
a demo of how I would talk about my job 
and I was like well the American Health 
Care system is very broken and I would 
like you know I like my eyebrows were 
all you know intense looking and I you 
played the video back to me and I was 
like oh my goodness you're like would 
you go up to that person at a cocktail 
party I was like uh probably not she 
looks a little a little intense I'll 
just keep using the word intense 
so being like a little I mean there's 
part of me that's like snarky and 
there's part of me that's you know 
there's a lot of things where I'm not 
full like as bubbly as your amazing 
personality like I truly you you know 
that's very authentic for you and I had 
to find my authentic you know a version 
of my authentic personality but 
um it certainly wasn't you know being 
the uh evaluator of 15 interview 
candidates or talking in depth about you 
know my Visa on the healthcare system so 
yeah I I had to become a little a little 
lighter and a little bit more you know 
this is a two-way street in how I was 
showing up as well right and sometimes 
we're never given that feedback right 
we're only given feedback to your point 
in the business World about okay you do 
X you're a value evaluated on X and 
suddenly okay it's all performance 
driven and you get a promotion and 
you're like okay that's great I must be 
doing a great job so I'm going to put my 
head down and be more intense and be 
more directive and and so it's the 
self-fulfilling prophecy right and we 
think well if that's working I'm going 
to do more of that like the Health Care 
system is very broken and these are my 
opinions on it and suddenly it's like 
wait a second as women what I want if 
you're a woman listening to this and 
this resonates with you this isn't about 
becoming less authentic right because 
remember we are not our jobs we are not 
our careers women are like diamonds okay 
and what do diamonds have they have many 
facets 
and so so often because we've been 
successful in the business world that 
and that's where we spend most of our 
time right and then we get self-esteem 
so we keep doing that we think that's 
the only facet that we have but it's 
like think about who are you when you're 
with your elevator people who are you 
when you're with your family with your 
100 year old grandma who you love who 
are you are you you know State of the 
Union Nikki no you're fun grab a glass 
of wine and putting that facet forward 
and that's what we want you all to think 
about is who was that version of 
yourself you don't necessarily want to 
bring hru or CEO you not that there's 
anything wrong with that person you know 
dear sir or Madam listening to this it's 
that you're looking to make a personal 
connection here and you want to bring 
that facet of you that is both 
interested that looks approachable and 
is interesting to other people 
yes great it's really good advice and 
and I was pretty I think pretty far off 
the mark by the time you found me on 
some of that or at least it would vary a 
lot by it like another thing I was sort 
of became conscious of was I was would 
take other people's energy and this is 
still something that I do at times and 
so it's like if the other person was 
like that then maybe it would be easier 
for me but as soon as the other person 
was you know more serious or like there 
was an awkward moment or whatever right 
then what like what was I turning on 
kind of at those times and so yeah it 
was that was a huge 
turning point for me to sort of realize 
all that I'm so glad you said that 
because 
what Nikki's saying is exactly true we 
all to Assa to an extent we feed off of 
each other's energies right and so 
with that understand you have power to 
create the energy to create the 
atmosphere when you switch to that facet 
of you that's warm you date you playful 
you you have what's called a mood 
quotient and you can bring that mood 
quotient to a person when you show up 
with the bright light version of 
yourself and for Nikki that might be 
different than it is for me or Lindsay 
her dating coach or somebody on the 
street but when you bring that version 
of yourself that is really authentic and 
interested and positive you will Elevate 
and change the mood of the room the best 
metaphor I can give you 
is think about yourself as the power of 
a chandelier right a chandelier can be 
switched on and suddenly it makes the 
room so much more beautiful and bright 
and you have the power to be that 
Chandelier by just turning that switch 
on in yourself and instead of like Nikki 
saying reacting to the mood of someone 
that you're with instead saying I'm 
gonna bring the brightness and I'm going 
to be the chandelier for this date so 
that's such a powerful thing that you 
just said yeah no I I love that analogy 
and it's I mean it's it's funny when we 
when you and I talked I remember about 
me starting up with the coaching in 
general 
um you said you know this can have like 
an impact on many parts of your life 
like I know people that it's really 
helped them in their careers as well and 
I think like even you know that that 
lesson around being like a mood elevator 
yourself right like that I think that 
has applicability even outside of dating 
so I love that oh well you are a total 
elevated person I always love chatting 
with you and that's why you were on this 
podcast with me so tell us you came to 
Chicago we have these you do your photo 
shoot you have a new profile what was 
what kind of a response did you get was 
it different than before with online 
dating 
I think it was yeah 
um it's funny because this is not your 
exact question but immediately when you 
brought up the new profile and um my 
fiance and I were just talking about 
this recently the there were all these 
in in helping anyone redesign their 
profile you guys have these great 
prompts and I I tend to you know one of 
my like uh the playful side of me one 
part of that is you know 
um kind of trying to be a little bit 
creative or clever or something so I 
can't remember if it was like an actual 
prompt or how this came about but we 
ended up updating on I think it was on 
Match specifically because there was 
like this more sort of open text you 
know you put something up about like to 
engage people and we put um and I didn't 
have anything like this before before 
this process we put 
um this whole description of me that was 
like I'm small and sporty but reliable 
and da da da like I guess you could say 
I'm like my first car the Honda Civic so 
you know what car would you be or 
something that was you know is like 
describing me and it was like my first 
bar and then what kind of car would you 
be and my fiance sent a line about 
Seinfeld uh that he's like I don't know 
if I'd be this car but it's like a 
Seinfeld reference John Boyce Buick 
um 
that was what you know made it happen 
that there was this like clever a more 
clever headline obviously the pictures 
were way better and that was amazing too 
but I think like even I remember another 
part of that exercise and like the being 
interesting having showing your facets 
it was also about like putting really 
specific things about you so not just I 
like to do yoga but like I went to 
Sicily on a yoga retreat you know in 
September like so people would have 
things to comment on so I think between 
this like headline and the you know more 
specific examples 
um that was yeah it was helpful to not 
only get more more interest but I think 
to get like qualified or you know people 
that were willing to sort of do the same 
people are willing to engage well I love 
that you said that because women will 
always say like oh guys don't even read 
your profile and here in comes Lucas 
into your inbox he's like wow look at 
this hot dish Nikki okay and he reads 
your profile and he responds to 
something funny in a way and you loved 
his sense of humor you're like okay the 
Buick this is amazing so good men will 
read your profile ladies and they will 
do this Lucas didn't have a dating coach 
he did not no no right and he's like 
miners were all his own exactly right 
he's he's in Aerospace right so he's not 
uh he's not a stand-up comedian but when 
you give somebody 
little tidbits about you to respond to 
when you're thinking about your profile 
think about putting in these one-liners 
that become like cocktail party 
conversation right that get that a good 
guy or a good woman will have something 
to go oh well that's interesting I am 
blah blah and it just makes the 
conversation more interesting and more 
playful so in comes this guy right and 
we're like okay he was one of many 
he was yes and I think at that time 
I was still trying to that was part of 
the funnel or like the you know 
Bachelorette style Vibe like have have 
some options in the in the mix 
um so yeah there were I think I was 
still dating a few other people at that 
time although I remember it also being a 
time that was getting kind of busy for 
me in my personal life and so 
um that was an interesting dynamic 
because it was that wasn't one of the 
ways early on that he sort of started to 
show up was you know and he was actually 
finishing grad school at the time too 
and so we were both like in this busy 
season we kind of were seeing each other 
like once a week and it was you know 
sometimes like oh I'm gonna be flying 
back from San Francisco what about a 
hike you know or like my I have friends 
in town like could we do brunch so you 
know it was like more of these like 
low-key dates and you really like we 
both really had to be committed to 
making it happen because I wasn't like 
super easy or you know like prime time 
options or like it could even go you 
know really fast out of the gates if we 
had wanted it to you know I think 
through the process I learned that that 
like super you know the love bombing 
potential or the really hot and heavy 
like you're not really even looking for 
that but very early on the fact that 
there were some barriers we also by La 
standards it was sort of a long distance 
relationship because it was like a 40 to 
an hour commute between our houses so 
you know that that was one of the things 
that actually did Stand Out was Hey You 
know despite the fact that things are 
busy and 
um you know that it's not like a just 
walk out the door and meet up for drinks 
you know on a Tuesday night we have to 
really be planful but that we actually 
did that I think that was one of those 
kind of good signs that he's looking for 
something you know more serious and he's 
willing to show up in that way 
that's great and he was consistent and 
reliable and you followed the slow 
trajectory of not we're not fascinating 
here we're slow dating here we're a day 
to week overtime can become a couple 
dates a week then can become three dates 
a week and then 
um and then you became exclusive like 
share is there a fun story around how 
you guys decided that 
you know it was pretty 
um 
it was pretty quick in this you know in 
the context of this like data week slow 
start kind of thing 
um and it wasn't you know when we first 
met and I I've told him this that you 
know going back to where we started on 
the like how how should it feel what did 
it feel like 
um he felt very like he felt like home 
to me very early like I couldn't quite 
put my finger on that that's what it 
felt like you know and that that's 
different than Sparks or like we have to 
go have another drink and another one 
and we're gonna you know shut the bar 
down or whatever but um it just felt 
very comfortable very familiar very safe 
and you know sort of the best way so 
that part was like clear to me early on 
but there were there were things yeah I 
mentioned some of the kind of like time 
and and distance hurdles that we had to 
think about but then also 
um he's more introverted than I am uh 
more like into at-home things like at 
that time I was still you know kind of 
coming off that business school like I 
have to go to 14 countries in business 
school or I have to you know see 
everything and get the Troubadour on a 
Tuesday and you know like Max I'm like a 
social maximizer historically so some of 
that was what I was like learning about 
and feeling out in the dates was like 
okay I really I feel like I could trust 
this person I feel like he's a really 
good person we have sort of different 
um styles but in terms of being excited 
about it and and feeling like we wanted 
to be exclusive that was like the fifth 
date which was you know maybe a month 
and and change in after a comedy show 
and 
um because yeah it was nothing nothing 
like a crazy big story but it was it was 
a pretty easy yes I think from both of 
us that we were sort of tracking along 
on the same page and 
um and then yeah we just started 
dating from there and 
um you know to the point around like 
different styles and feeling that out I 
um I always like to say that so I did 
not cook at all before meeting him uh at 
all so like I think our fourth day maybe 
was was making pizza together and he's 
like we can do it at your place I was 
like okay great he's like do you have 
um flower I was like uh I don't think so 
he's like do you have a rolling pin I'm 
like could we use a wine bottle he's 
like do you have salt I'm like it's 
pretty old I think it's from when I 
lived in Chicago so he just like bought 
everything from the grocery store like 
down to the you know brought his own 
pants brought his own like equipment 
came over to my place and you know made 
it there and so 
um it's actually been really fun because 
now we love to cook together and there's 
a lot of other things like you know but 
we also like host dinner parties with 
our friends and there's just ways that 
are kind of two lives have come together 
that I think that was a lot of the story 
of you know the 
we dated almost two years before moving 
in because of the pandemic but you know 
over that time as you're getting more 
and more serious it was sort of figuring 
out okay we really care a lot about each 
other how to how do these pieces fit 
together in our life here and then you 
know how how does how do we think about 
you know long term and are we aligned on 
those things as well 
totally and for those of you listening 
who work with us and have listened to us 
I know you hear us talking about nope 
don't you know go to each other's houses 
and cook or there's a we we're not going 
to get exclusive until 15 days but 
understand that as part of our process 
right we know and Lindsay was following 
your relationship closely and knowing 
okay I know Nikki really well and I can 
get a good gut on this guy which is why 
we do what we do with smartaining 
Academy so if you're going wait a second 
I thought blah blah blah well guess what 
there's always when you're in this 
one-on-one this is what we do is we will 
help you say okay you know what at date 
four this dude's really good news and 
this is a really good bet for you and 
yeah it's going to stretch you out of 
your comfort zone because you don't have 
any flour at your house so if this guy 
is willing to do this that's fine and 
you know better than because you've been 
taught if that doesn't necessarily mean 
we're going to sleep together right that 
means that we're going to make pizza 
together so if you're listening to this 
going but wait I've been following your 
rules it's okay the rules can be 
different based on who you are who the 
guy is and that's the beauty of having 
someone who's following your process in 
the way Lindsay was following you I also 
I realized I misspoke because this date 
was after we were exclusive the home 
game so we were following we were even 
following the rules in that regard well 
it's been too long I get my dates I 
think that was more like date six now 
that I think about it I think date four 
was when we went to brunch and saw Tyra 
Banks oh yeah that's awesome did she 
flies at you I think she was facing him 
and he was like I think I know that lady 
and I was like who was that okay who's 
that 
who's that and so so tell us about this 
relationship with the lindiorpa with 
Lucas you guys navigated covid and it 
seems like 
it brought you closer together and tell 
us where you are now yeah yeah the covid 
the coven chapter was was really 
interesting for us just a quick aside on 
that because you know I think people had 
all different flavors of what did copen 
do to your relationship you know like 
did it accelerate it did it blow it up 
you know were you like driving each 
other crazy because now you're 
constantly together you know whatever 
those different versions were and for us 
um 
we so we'd been dating maybe five months 
at that point and five six and uh he was 
working like in person he was an 
essential worker because he was out in a 
manufacturing setting and so we actually 
stopped seeing each other in person for 
like a month or two so we were like we 
went back like we were cooked we did 
cooking dates online and like we did you 
know trivia with friends in other cities 
online we I remember we did like a walk 
and you know we're socially distanced in 
our like bandanas and just like hugged 
each other at the end but like he really 
did not want to he was worried he would 
get exposed did not want to give it to 
me 
so I was like crazy you know to kind of 
have to go all the way back which yeah 
okay probably you know to your point 
kind of solidified things or you know it 
was it really like forced us to to be 
sure about the Friendship part or like 
really brought that to light right that 
you know even if we can't be together we 
can you know it's still worth it to you 
know have this connection and we'll 
figure out ways to make it feel like we 
are you know spending time 
that was really interesting 
but yeah 
um you know I think it was kind of 
probably like the year and a half mark 
when really you know he was finished 
with school we had 
um you know been kind of coming out the 
other side of the pandemic I've been 
dating a long time had started to meet 
each other's families which you know 
that was a bit um postponed because of 
covet as well sure and that was the 
point when you know we just I think 
making sure that we were on the same 
page about what we wanted longer term 
those were kind of the the conversations 
to revisit a lot of times I'll talk with 
girlfriends about how you know it's 
funny in the beginning of a relationship 
when you talk about those things people 
will say something right like oh I want 
to be married or I want of course or I 
want to live in this place or I'm open 
to this thing right but then like a year 
and a half in when it's like this is not 
just in theory this is like do we want 
to do that do we want to get that we've 
been on this timeline right and so kind 
of going back to those foundational 
conversations 
um and once we you know it sort of did 
that and we're on the same page then 
um decided to move in which was a good 
like can we actually you know do this 
around the clock we were still living 
far apart most of the time we were 
together so it was easier to you know 
just spend more time together frankly by 
cutting out the the commute yeah and we 
did that for about a year before talking 
about getting engaged and 
um that was the surprise this summer 
before we took off on an awesome trip to 
Italy so did a nice just home intimate 
home proposal before we had a week 
together on the Amalfi Coast which was 
like the most romantic place to 
celebrate our engagement and yeah we're 
working on this wedding now so at the to 
your point I think five years ago I 
would not have did not fully believe I 
had hoped you know that I would be 
telling a story like this one but I 
didn't know you know how quickly would 
happen or if really the you know kind of 
that 10 years of my 20s trying and 
failing in my mind to you know meet 
somebody I wasn't sure if I would would 
make someone and so I'm super excited 
and grateful grateful to you and Lindsay 
obviously in for the process and just 
looking forward to the next chapter 
oh that's amazing and and Nikki said 
some really so many great things but I 
want to take the time to just expound on 
those a little bit right we get 
exclusive we think we're on track and 
like she said so accurately in the 
beginning a lot of people will say yes I 
want to get married yes I want to have 
kids in theory but as you go through 
this process and I remember having a few 
conversations with you along the way 
through the relationship it's like okay 
now it's time to have those 
conversations do you see yourself 
marrying me 
do you want to have kids with me do you 
and and making sure that you are aligned 
on this and moving towards that you're 
valuing the same things you have the 
same timeline so that is so important 
not to make those assumptions right and 
to do those check-ins like yes it's 
great that you said you wanted to get 
married do you want to marry me and 
having and and that requires courage and 
that requires being with someone that 
you feel like you can have those 
conversations with and if you're 
listening to this and you feel like oh 
my gosh like I've never had the guts or 
the courage to have that conversation I 
promise you you can and you can be in a 
relationship where you feel safe enough 
and you're looking at like the mile 
markers essentially like did we check 
this off check this off check this off 
okay do you want to marry me and then 
holding yourself self and your partner 
accountable to meeting those timelines 
in a way that you're both happy with and 
comfortable with because I think if you 
don't have those conversations so much 
time can Whittle by and you're like wow 
but well I just assumed in the beginning 
that he said he wanted to get married 
and now we're four years into this and 
now he's like well no I I've changed my 
mind and now what you've got this sunk 
cost on your books for four years at 
this point I can speak this language 
with you yeah no well and I think I mean 
the other part that seems almost 
seemed almost as or two other things of 
what you're saying in there that were 
really important to me too is you know I 
actually 
realized that I I was as much like hey 
this isn't theoretical more this is real 
anymore this is real that was as much 
true for me as as you know anyone in the 
relationship right like that I had to 
actually re you know be sure that those 
are the things I wanted like the kids 
example you know coming back to this the 
premise of you know your career and 
you're like you know I there's a lot of 
stuff in my life that you know I really 
love and and I'm a very conscious of 
what a big commitment that will be at 
some point right and so like it could 
have been that I was the one that said 
you know I'm not sure anymore right or 
you know I was in some way totally 
confirm that for myself so I think like 
knowing what you want and what you need 
for real not just because you know like 
I was so fixated on just getting in a 
relationship and I hadn't really had 
real relationship experience that like 
there was a bit of hey I gotta like 
actually you know catch up to like what 
this all means you know before I just 
continue my little project management 
timeline as well you know so I think 
there's this like being able to 
articulate your own wants and needs and 
maybe how that's like evolving you know 
given that you're actually in a real 
situation versus a theoretical 
um I think that that's really important 
um so you know there was a kind of just 
resetting in my own uh place as well 
that had to happen 
yeah and Nikki just said something again 
that is really important if this 
resonates with you and you feel like you 
don't have a lot of relationship 
experience right it's okay at any age 
right you can still find the lid to your 
pot but getting into getting help around 
whatever it is you need with that for 
some people that might be trauma therapy 
for some people you know that's regular 
talk therapy for some people it's yeah I 
need a lot of help in the intervention 
around this like who gets in who gets 
out and having somebody to kind of 
Shepherd you through the process and 
laugh with and be positive with and give 
people nicknames and throw them back to 
the pond and that's certainly you know 
more along the lines of what we do at 
Smart dating Academy so just know that 
if that resonates with you and you don't 
a lot of people come to us like okay 
I've never really been in love or you 
know I have haven't had a serious 
boyfriend over two or three months it's 
okay and some people come in saying I've 
been married five times and I still 
haven't got this right no matter where 
you are in your process and at what age 
there's always hope for you to find the 
lid to your pot 
I agree I agree 
we are Fountains of Hope aren't we yes 
yes no I yeah I can't say can't say 
enough 
uh I can't reiterate enough the things 
that you're saying because I think like 
I kind of started out at the beginning 
you know there were there was a lot of 
there was a lot there that I was doing 
right but I think kind of changing a few 
of these assumptions and and really uh 
sharpening the pencil on how to to show 
up in this process uh it makes the 
difference and it makes it you know 
makes it possible makes things that I 
didn't think were possible possible so 
oh I love this and you have friends with 
similar stories 
yeah I mean I think 
um you know being going through this 
process and 
um you know when I talk about like those 
the girlfriends of my 20s and there's a 
little bit the blind leading the blind 
all of us single but giving each other 
daily advice you know I think now that 
there's more of us actually in serious 
relationships across all my friend 
groups 
um you see the same themes you know 
popping up of kind of what works and 
what it takes and and it's nice to be 
able to sort of talk to each other or 
sometimes to sort of lend what I know 
from this process to our our 
conversations oh and we have some of 
your friends that have joined us as well 
and have found success if I'm not 
mistaken yes yes indeed 
well listen if you know Nikki is an 
amazing Testament to a lot of things you 
can be professional and educated and try 
a lot of different things and sit back 
and what I love is that it took you time 
from the time that you and I first met 
at Andy's Christmas party gosh I think 
you know Max who's now a freshman in 
high school was probably not even 
walking when we first met back in the 
day because I remember when when Andy 
joined the firm that you guys both 
worked at so I remember meeting you I 
remember exactly where it was and I 
couldn't be more delighted that you did 
it your way for a while and then 
realized hmm maybe I'm going to try it 
your way and try a different way and 
here you are three years later and 
getting to the point where you've got 
the greatest partner for you the lid to 
your pot and and your future is bright 
and I'm just so happy to have been a 
small part of it yes I thank you again 
so much Bella for this opportunity to 
share and and for everything uh when you 
put it in the context of somebody uh 
going from walking to high school that 
really does make her feel like it's took 
a little while but it was it was the way 
it was supposed to happen and it's all 
worth it and then so thank you again is 
there any last thing that I might not 
have asked you that you wanna any little 
gem that you want to share with someone 
listening to this that can really relate 
to 
you know I I feel like we've I feel like 
we've covered it it's because it isn't 
you know to me there's so much that goes 
into all of this relationships are 
really complicated understanding 
yourself is really you know your life's 
work right and so there's I don't know 
that there's like one you know parting 
thought so much as just you know stay 
positive through the pop the process 
because it is possible but it it takes 
you know all of these different pieces 
coming together there's no Silver Bullet 
you know it's uh it's a process but it's 
one that is very gratifying you know and 
and I think benefits again like we 
talked about you in many parts of your 
life not just when it comes to a partner 
I'm so glad this has benefited you in so 
many parts of your life and most 
importantly with an amazing fiance and 
if I can leave you guys with a node of 
inspiration based on this chat it's 
someday you will be on your last first 
date someday somebody will send you that 
last first message and someday you're 
going to go on a date with the person 
that in a healthy way like Nikki says 
Feels Like Home 
and I hope that you have enjoyed Nikki's 
love story and make sure you check out 
the show notes we'll do a cute page that 
you can look at Nikki and see her cute 
face and maybe some pictures from her 
engagement and uh and until next week I 
send you love hugs psychotic optimism a 
wave of the magic wand and know that 
love will come to you it's a when it's 
not an if and be psychotically damn 
optimistic for your own love story 
because I know if you're listening to 
this someday you're going to be on this 
podcast telling your own love story 


so I am bringing you this week's Love 
Story which is a former client my good 
friend Nikki who is planning her wedding 
Nikki thank you for joining us thanks 
for having me so you engaged us in 2019 
pre-coven and so you fly to Chicago and 
you start this process tell us a little 
bit about what that started for you 
professionally I work in business you 
know at some point in the LA job 
actually I was very much building a team 
used to like you know reviewing the 
resume and trying to figure out okay 
should we bring this person in for an 
interview a second interview you know 
it's just like I need to actually get to 
know people not profiles one of the 
first things just like thinking about 
the funnel and thinking about you know 
how many interactions like real 
interactions I was having 
um that was a big one of the big shifts 
for me among a couple others it's 
nothing so quick to throw people back to 
the pond if we're not feeling that 
Elusive and I put this in air quotes it 
right away 


and because you ask for them we deliver 
you love the love stories and this love 
story of marilyn dollar is one of my 
favorites our dear listener out there is 
wondering could i ever find the lid to 
my pot what would you tell them first i 
would say 
if you haven't found it yet maybe your 
secret sauce is hiring a coach i mean 
the one thing that i loved about working 
with you is you didn't just come at it 
and say 
all right you can do it let's go you 
took the time to invest in me and to get 
to know me and to get to know what i 
wanted and what i was about 
and then you assessed if you and i could 
work together 
because you don't work with just anyone 
no find someone to believe in you oh my 
god that gave me goosebumps 100 
it doesn't happen right away it took 
years to find him this didn't happen in 
minutes 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back to this week's 
episode and because you ask for them 
we deliver you love the love stories and 
this love story of Maryland dollar is 
one of my favorites because Marilyn is 
not only a client that Lindsay and I 
both of course fell in love with because 
once you hear Marilyn you'll realize why 
everybody falls in love with Marilyn 
it's called like the Maryland effect but 
Marilyn also 
um is just an amazing human being and 
she's become a dear friend 
and I will spoiler alert this I went to 
her engagement party but I'm not gonna 
skip ahead I'm going to introduce you 
I'm gonna have you meet Marilyn I'm 
gonna have you hear the beauty of this 
Soulful person who has transformed her 
life like something I cannot even 
describe to you you just have to hear it 
for yourself Marilyn thank you for 
joining us ah Bella that's such a great 
introduction and thanks for having me oh 
my gosh you are like just you and I were 
noodling like we're just gonna do 
ourselves and have this chat and tell 
you this organic story of you so kind of 
tell us a little bit about you you know 
kind of and we'll go from there maybe 
like tell us what you you know what you 
do for work and how you grew up and 
we're just gonna go from like little 
Maryland to Big Maryland 
foreign 
let's see what do I do so when I first 
started dating my husband I told him I 
work at a candy company and he said 
which one and I said well I can't tell 
you that you might be a stalker I don't 
know he goes well if you work at Milky 
Way you might be 
my girlfriend 
[Laughter] 
zip I said nothing for like months 
because you know I mean we've all dated 
those weird stalker people I did not 
need someone I had not even been at my 
job for very long maybe a few years and 
I didn't want some random guy showing up 
so it was months before I told him I did 
work in Milky Way 
working at a candy company and we're 
going to come back to 
growth in your career that happened 
along with all of your growth so tell us 
like you grew up in the South right 
I did so originally I'm from Memphis 
Tennessee 
um I've got family in Nashville Memphis 
Mississippi Louisiana 
and my dad was in the Navy so I grew up 
a Navy brat so we while we spent a few 
years down South by the time I was in 
second grade we had moved overseas and I 
didn't come back until just before high 
school 
oh wow okay and then and then what 
happened tell us about your tell us 
about your dating life Maryland dollar 
I mean look even when I first came to 
you I said dating is not the problem I 
get plenty of dates 
it's they're not 
good husband quality uh we have her 
brainwashed GHQ do you hear that so 
and you so 
right okay so you dated you were married 
what was your first marriage how old 
were you and how did that happen please 
as she groans in the background I don't 
like to talk about that one well let's 
see I was 17. okay I I was you know we 
moved from the Azores back to the states 
to Texas which is in its own right a 
foreign country 
for real and it was very Bible Belt and 
you know you don't sleep around you 
don't date around do you meet someone at 
church and you get married and so that's 
kind of what I did I met somebody at 
church 
I got married 
turns out 
he was a real 
you can say it 
yeah he was just a not a good husband 
quality material 
and we moved to Great Falls Montana 
from Houston Texas 
and it was just it was a really dark 
time in my life I was away from all my 
family all my friends I had had a lot of 
loss in my life at that time my best 
friend from within my senior year of 
high school my best friend from Junior 
High 
was killed in a car accident my my 
another guy that I was dating in high 
school was killed in a car accident with 
my best friend oh my um 
freshman year of college I just started 
college and I was in a sorority 
and my sorority sister and I did 
everything together she committed 
suicide and I was just like 
I'm out of here this other guy that I 
had been seeing on and off right he 
proposed and he had this little promise 
oh if we were married Uncle Sam will pay 
for your way and we'll go back to the 
Azores I'm like he painted this whole 
picture and I bought into it 
but you know the reality was he got 
shipped out to Great Falls Montana they 
were six feet of snow they didn't use 
salt he took my car I couldn't drive 
and he was super abusive 
and I thought I was going crazy turns 
out he was just gaslighting me oh and it 
took me about three months to kind of 
realize this was a pattern this isn't 
one off you know he would an abusive 
situation with a guy like that looks 
like this he comes home everything's 
great he makes up some story 
knocks me around and then pretends later 
like nothing ever happened or says I 
don't know what came over me that'll 
never happen again this just continued 
to happen over and over and I thought 
I gotta get out of here but he was so 
controlling and oppressive there was 
really no way for me to get out 
so finally uh I think it was New Year's 
Eve I had gotten fired from my job 
because I was late all the time I was in 
and out of the hospital with bruises 
contusions head injuries broken ribs I 
mean 
horrible 
but I was so young I didn't know I just 
I didn't know what to do I didn't have 
any resources 
and I knew when I told him that I got 
fired that he was going to 
do something terrible I just could feel 
it and sure enough he did 
and I remember having this kind of out 
of body experience and um 
I thought you know this is not the way I 
go I have so much I want to give to the 
world I'm 18 at this point sorry this 
got really dark all of a sudden you're 
18. it was 18. 
um and I thought I I uh I gotta do 
something and so 
I we have this big fight and 
I was a mess he broke my nose and my jaw 
and it was terrible 
somehow I convinced him to go get us 
some alcohol for 
New Year's Eve 
and I called my dad and I said I'm 
leaving and he said don't leave until I 
get there and I said I don't know that 
I'll make it till the morning 
and he said I'll be there in the morning 
and he was and he did come and get me 
and my cat and we drove the long way 
home oh my God it was terrible from 
Great Falls Montana in January down to 
Houston Texas oh my God and he was 
just you know no judgment 
telling me 
you know what my future was is going to 
be bright and I this was going to pass 
and it was just it was a terrible time 
but it it really showed me how much my 
dad cared for me 
and uh and after that I mean probably 
solid 10 years I just I was anti-dating 
anti-man I said never get married again 
forget about it 
and then I met another guy at work and I 
thought well I'm meeting him at work 
we're both smart you know it's fine 
um and so I I married him and we had two 
wonderful kids which I loved I stayed 
home for 10 years with them 
and all through this so I had a lot of 
therapy after that first marriage I did 
a lot of volunteering at women's 
shelters to just 
understand it wasn't anything I did 
or somehow my fault it was a 
circumstantial piece of my life and many 
women struggled to get out of that 
pattern and grateful that I was able to 
have the support around me to get out of 
that 
so falling into another relationship I 
thought would never happen again 
and it didn't in that same way but there 
are a lot of different ways that men or 
anyone in a relationship if they're 
controlling can hold you back yeah and 
and so in that second marriage now I 
have kids now I'm a stay-at-home mom so 
it's another form of control if you will 
we didn't share bank accounts sure he he 
went to work I stayed home I'm like 
where am I gonna get the money 
I still had to pay for groceries and all 
the things the kids wanted to do so 
summer camp and football and baseball 
and all the things 
and so it's funny full circle 
many times there was a woman who worked 
at the candy company I work for now and 
she was in charge of taste testing which 
one of my girlfriends had told me about 
and I would call her up and I would say 
Lee 
I need to go to the Aldi this week 
can I come in and chew some gum and she 
would say every time come in in a 30 
minutes I would choose some gum and I 
would get a check and I would go buy 
groceries 
and when I started working there years 
later she said 
you have transformed so much it has been 
so wonderful to watch I'm so happy for 
you 
so you never know where you're gonna be 
years later who I never would have a 
million years thought I'd be working 
there as I am now 
so 
um 
when I was married and staying at home 
with these kids 
and my husband had this great job and he 
came home and said 
yeah I I don't think I want to be 
married anymore 
I'm like wait what I was not expecting 
that right out of nowhere out of nowhere 
and turned out he had been having an 
emotional affair with someone at his 
work which is very common 
but he did not really want to work on it 
and I I remember thinking to myself how 
how am I going to do this and my friends 
helped me with some vision board 
exercises and and we just we just got 
together and talked about it like what 
are the situations what are the 
scenarios my one girlfriend who's a CFO 
said let's draw out three Financial 
scenarios and see what what you could do 
right you could stay at home continue to 
do your stampin Up business maybe take 
on a part-time business but you won't be 
able to keep the house 
you could go to work full-time but then 
you have to pay for child care you could 
go to work full-time and keep your 
stampin Up business but you won't have 
any personal life and so I had these 
situations but he said oh you'll never 
leave me you don't even have a job 
well 
challenge accepted challenge accepted 
but wait he wanted the divorce but he he 
changed his hand he changed his mind 
then okay so he has this emotional 
affair you lay out the scenarios but 
he's like I don't want to work on it but 
wait I don't want a divorce so basically 
just accept me having this affair and 
Let's Stay Together isn't that great 
heads I win Tales you lose 
not in a million years no not doing it 
bye boy but controlling right and this 
is their mindset the narcissist 
100 percent 
and I didn't know I was just like okay 
my girlfriends are telling me that I 
should just leave so what can I do 
and so that's that's what I did and I 
said I gotta get a job now I'm gonna get 
a job and 
my girlfriends we were just talking 
about this the other day said 
um well who do you know that works and I 
said I don't need anyone who works all 
my girlfriends are stay-at-home moms we 
all have you know these little 
businesses that we have but it's not 
enough to pay a mortgage 
and they said well 
um 
who did you used to know when you used 
to work 
and I thought oh my god I've been out of 
work for 10 years I 
well I used to know this girl Carol and 
we still get back together you know for 
lunch every Christmas all right we'll 
call Carol and Carol and I started at 
Quaker Oats back in the day 
and she was so fun and I was there when 
Pepsi bought us I worked for Pepsi for a 
while 
and uh and I said well Carol let's get 
together for lunch so we did 
and I said 
um do you remember my old boss Julian 
she goes yeah I think she's working at 
this candy company 
I said oh well I should call her what or 
what's her email and so I called her I 
emailed her and she called me back she 
goes oh my God I was just thinking about 
you how are you and I said well Julia 
I'm going through a divorce 
and you know it's messy 
she said come in and let's have lunch 
so we came in I came in we had lunch and 
she said I got some projects would you 
consider working on them I said I can 
only work ten to two because my kids are 
in school I mean I was I had such a 
little mindset back then 
and I said um could you could you work 
that out she goes yeah absolutely 
and so three weeks into that somehow 
like there's a 21 day rule with me I 
don't know what it is except for the 30 
30 90 day rule that that's still a thing 
that's my rule I know and I I agree and 
adhere to that 
important 
and I am 
at the end of three weeks she came up to 
me and said if we could 
find enough work for you to work 
full-time would you consider that on a 
temp basis through Christmas and I said 
sure I'll figure it out and I did I got 
my kids in after school care I got them 
to be able to ride the bus to school I 
got a girlfriend of mine to help me out 
and I transitioned full-time 
and while they were in 
at their grandmother's house for 
Thanksgiving 
I moved out of my house 
oh and I got an apartment okay and I had 
no furniture I took their clothes and 
the stuff from the bathroom and that was 
it and all my girlfriends I mean it was 
like these graduation parties that you 
saw during covet where people were just 
driving around the block my girlfriends 
are just coming and dropping stuff off 
my one girlfriend gave me a table that 
had been in her garage 
a couple of beds for the kids I mean my 
whole apartment was furnished by my 
friends 
and the kids came home on Thanksgiving 
and I picked them up and we walked in 
the back door and then we walked out the 
front door and got in my car and drove 
to the apartment 
oh my God so scary so I had been at work 
three weeks 
I had an apartment 
the kids were doing fine I was still 
doing my Stampin business still working 
full-time 
and I started traveling a lot for work 
and I thought I can't do this stamping 
business and try to date and 
try to be at all the kids football games 
and be the football mom and all that 
something's got to give 
so I gave up my 
stamping business that I had done for 12 
years a lot of friends and those are 
like stamps on cards right like yeah 
like uh yeah I don't have one in front 
of me but we still will send cards to 
each other right that we've we've done 
you sent me one but we'll get to that 
yeah yeah yeah uh and we still well it's 
just a creative outlet for us and I said 
uh I got to make some room in my life 
for dating 
and uh when I did that I was dating this 
really interesting guy that I had met on 
Tinder 
and it was a great year if it was I'll 
call it the Gap year 
of spending a lot of time either in the 
bedroom or at the Home Depot he was very 
handy 
wait 
or oh Home Depot that was that was your 
foreign back into the dating world again 
this is pretty smart dating Academy 
people don't get yourself all excited 
right now 
you know he he he had a lot of expertise 
in many areas and I was very happy for 
that year but every time that I would 
bring up to him hey the exclusive 
conversation or when can I meet your mom 
who just lives like a couple of suburbs 
over he was always like avoiding that 
and he hung out at my house mostly and 
just the whole thing seemed kind of 
shady 
uh but he was a great guy he was a 
Polish guy really big strong 
um but he he just he was not a family 
guy wasn't into my kids he only came 
over when they weren't there I mean it 
was just you could tell this was not 
going anywhere 
so I said oh okay well 
you know let's uh I'm gonna go I've got 
to this trip I'm going to Istanbul and 
you know really miss you and you know 
all the things so I get to Istanbul and 
uh 
I had become friends with a couple of 
people that I had been working on the 
meeting with for quite a long time and 
so we hung out and 
just had a great time and I tried to 
call the Polish guy like every day he 
didn't didn't pick up the phone I 
thought well it's the time difference 
like all the things and you're calling 
him from Europe oh yeah I'm calling him 
from from Turkey you're paying Rome 
charges I know it's terrible it was so 
it was Dumb and uh finally 
it was a long trip back on the airplane 
and I thought you know why am I doing 
this I just had this great international 
meeting that I put together for a 
hundred people coming in from all over 
the world I organized the whole thing it 
was amazing 
and yet this guy is treating me like 
I don't even know not the way I should 
be treated there's just something wrong 
and I got off that airplane and I called 
him from the taxi and I said you know I 
just don't think this is working out 
and then the next call was I called you 
and I said okay I think I'm ready what 
do we need to do 
now if now correct me if my memory is 
wrong you at that moment you did call 
but you and I had met as you reminded me 
at an event 
at the Chicago Tribune at the trip yeah 
or Heidi Stevens but one of the 
journalists from the tribuneer Amy 
Dickinson I think it was asking baby 
right that's right it was the advice the 
national advice columnist ask Amy we 
were doing an event together and I think 
Jen or Heidi somebody was moderating it 
but you were in the audience at the 
Tribune Tower and we talked for a minute 
and then I think we kept in touch via 
Facebook yep and you had sent me one of 
those cute little stamp cards I remember 
I still have it in my closet because I I 
never throw away notes that people give 
me so I'm I'm funny like that words of 
affirmation are are great so then 
Marilyn sends me a message and says I 
think I'm ready and I think the message 
probably came on Facebook 
I'm ready to do this I was like are you 
sure because I thought you were ready a 
few times you're like no no no now I'm 
really ready and then let me tell you 
guys when Marilyn says she's ready 
she's ready so so now you engage with us 
and you go through our process and you 
fill out our documents and we meet you 
at the Four Seasons okay and 
and so I'm giving you my impressionistic 
memory so now you show up there and 
you're sparkling as you can all hear her 
personality and she showed up and she 
had this kind of chin length kind of 
curly hair and these glasses on and this 
outfit that was just kind of you know 
whatever she's like I just you know we 
were talking about style and the 
importance of how you look on the 
outside and how that's going to make you 
feel on the inside and she said do you 
think I should have my hair curly or 
straight and I just remember going well 
where do you feel prettier 
she's like oh when my hair is straight 
so now we have this conversation we have 
this conversation with lots of people 
right about you know what are the things 
you can do to make yourself really feel 
good and dating 
so we have this meeting three hours we 
on Border we're like she's great she's 
gonna do well so a week later 
I was keynoting a match.com singles 
event for women and presenting like how 
to find the perfect guy and I go through 
this whole and Andy my husband came to 
help me set up because I am do you think 
I can set up a projector come on like no 
that's out of balagandi's skill set 
right like I can speak I can make the 
audience laugh but don't make me put the 
projector so so at so I finish up my 
talk and This Woman's like oh my gosh 
that was great you know is that guy your 
I.T guy and they said well that I.T guy 
is my husband who's in finance and 
private Equity but he's a great guy and 
so she's and she's talking to me as if 
we know each other and I was like oh 
have we met 
no 
and guess who it was dear listener it 
was Maryland dollar Maryland had changed 
her appearance literally was it even a 
week like I'm not exaggerating like a 
few days it was a few days so Marilyn 
decided that she was going to drink up 
the information that we talked about and 
execute in like this rapid fire Way new 
look she had her hair that was Curly and 
you know puffy and I can say that 
because I'm a curly puffy haired girl 
too naturally and that's how we talked 
about the Keratin Maryland went out got 
her hair straightened it was so 
dramatically different that I didn't 
even recognize my own client her outfit 
she looked Chic her hair I was like 
Marilyn she's like remember we met last 
week like I'm your client I was I was 
rendered speechless at that point and 
I'm sure you remember this moment as 
well so what a compliment and what a 
testament to you where you just were 
like okay girl you want me to do what 
and then I'm gonna do this too 
unrecognizable and how did you feel 
uh and so it was funny because you had 
said well something like can a guy run 
his fingers through your hair and I'm 
like no like never I can't even get a 
brush no okay then you gotta you've got 
to do something with that and I just 
felt 
you know I don't want someone to judge 
me by how I look I want someone to judge 
me well first I don't want anybody to 
judge me I just want to show up like I 
am and I want everyone to have a good 
time and 
be happy 
but what I recognized was 
not everyone has that same filter 
especially guys 
right 
and while I said before I had no problem 
getting dates that was never the problem 
it was 
getting dates with guys who saw 
immediately that I had value 
yeah and so overnight it made me feel 
like people took me more seriously 
they recognize that I was smart 
and I felt like they saw immediately 
that I had value 
and that was a huge shift for me I I 
always knew that I had had that but the 
first two failed relationships that I 
had 
that I that was evidence I couldn't deny 
um and I never wanted to repeat that 
again no no and I and I remember doing 
this video exercise with you and we 
talked about softening up body language 
and how you present with good energy and 
it's good to make people feel accepted 
and warm and you I just remember how you 
lit up the camera when we had you do it 
with a smile on your face and it's like 
the whole world started to change for 
you and started to change like 
like suddenly right dating changed work 
changed tell us about everything like 
you did your photo shoot with this new 
look literally if I say to you guys 
Marilyn broke the internet I mean what 
kind of response did you get from those 
photos that we took oh my God that was 
crazy and I tell my girlfriends this 
overnight my 
matches went from 
a lot of city workers and I've no 
problem with city workers I believe in 
hard work ethic and people who work 
um with that feeling of what they're 
doing is important and 
I work in Corporate America 
I've always wanted someone else that 
understood what that was like I wanted 
someone who worked in Corporate America 
this is not a hard thing to ask for 
overnight I went from a a guy that I had 
gone out with in the last week was a 
pipefitter 
another guy I went out with a week 
before worked at a steel mill another 
guy was a machinist and another guy was 
an auto mechanic I could not make this 
up 
once AJ did that photo shoot and you and 
Lindsay helped me rewrite my copy just a 
little bit 
it went from that to 
I had a date with 
an attorney who had his own practice 
a doctor who worked at Northwestern 
I 
um Banker 
uh 
uh and a guy who worked downtown I mean 
it was immediate and it wasn't just like 
these three it was three pages of guys 
pages I just it was super overwhelming 
and you had said I had been on match for 
a while 
and then I had dated this guy who went 
full court press on me and that didn't 
work out so when I came back and hit the 
reset button 
you suggested that I try eHarmony 
and that's even more intense because you 
got to fill out all this these questions 
like it's 128 questions or something 
and it was just miraculous at the kind 
of quality of people that started 
showing up and they would write these 
really lovely emails to me and it was 
amazing overnight although I will say 
uh one guy asked me if I was a 
professional 
proportional what 
you said your pictures are just a little 
too good to be true what are you really 
doing and I'm like no those are those 
are really the pictures they're not 
touched up or anything that's the way 
they look because uh take a picture with 
your camera which I did I just did the 
cell then he goes oh all right well uh 
what are you doing this Friday 
right this is not the man she ended up 
marrying by the way 
it was very fun and so we have lots of 
dates all different kinds like Marilyn 
said there's no slight on city workers 
and she dated plenty of those but her 
manifestation now that she had become 
more successful in the corporate world 
was I want to date more white collar 
guys that can understand the world that 
I live in and so now we started to date 
lots of these guys our big mission was 
to make sure that mayor fixed her picker 
and did not gravitate back to somebody 
who was 
narcissistic 
avoidant red flaggy and you know that 
they're even though you know 
some the information about what a 
narcissist is you know you might be in 
therapy right you're doing your work but 
the gravitational pull towards what is 
familiar which could be dysfunctional 
red flaggy edgy it's a high pull right 
oh yeah 
yeah because it's what you know and 
narcissists tend to gravitate towards 
helpers nurturers women who are 
um helpful 
right because they they feel like oh 
well this is this is my world this is 
what I deserve all the time without 
reciprocity 
oh it will I call narcissists or takers 
and the taker needs a giver right and 
givers like to give Until you realize 
you're putting sunlight into a black 
hole and nothing's gonna come out of it 
we can't just give and give and give and 
give and give even though we're a giver 
because we're human and we need to get 
something back right and that's where 
narcissists don't do so well because 
they're like well wait you can never 
give enough to a narcissist never it's a 
pot with a huge hole right exactly 
exactly so so if we go back now in time 
so we dated all kinds we had some green 
flag guys we had some red flag guys oh 
did we have some red flag guys right so 
we could toss those if you could see our 
faces right now we're laughing because 
there's some real Doozers that came into 
your funnel right and nobody would have 
known it but we gave them all time and 
time weeds out all the Kooks you guys 
crazy cannot hide for that long so if 
you give someone enough time they're 
gonna show they're crazy right and we 
got rid of a lot of crazy but then there 
was that one special email that came 
through now tell us about tell us about 
uh tell us about this guy that uh that 
asked you out on a date named Jim 
so Jim 
was 
um 
you know he looked like a pretty laid 
back so 
I was dating these crazy guys it's true 
and then you had said to me 
hey what if we expanded the age bracket 
because I I wanted to date men in the 
city who were my age or younger 
that was my that was my my bubble 
and you said well what if we set the 
range like 50 to 100 miles away 
I'm like I I don't want some Suburban 
guy and you're like well let's just try 
it like all right okay uh I'm coachable 
I'm gonna do okay I'm doing what she 
says it's worked so far so I spread that 
and then you said and let's go 
equidistant 
10 years younger 
to 10 years older I'm like 10 years 
older I'm like God I gotta be retiring 
and you're like let's just see what 
happens 
so I opened the aperture on that 
and within I'd say a week so this is 
roughly May ish 
and I had reset I had reset in I think 
February 
and uh this guy sent me this email 
within a couple of days after this and 
it was like paragraphs like nobody 
speaks in paragraphs you might get a 
sentence or two and usually very 
inappropriate with crappy spelling 
and then this guy 
said I loved your profile you seem like 
a lot of fun uh tell me a little bit 
more about you know your kids or 
whatever I had talked about I I remember 
there was a part of my I was into 
running I did a 5k every month 
and I I remember putting in my profile I 
love to run during the week and then 
wreck it on the weekend with pizza which 
I still do I love Lou Malnati's big fan 
and so I said uh yeah I'm running in a 
5k this weekend 
and then the next day he sent me another 
email oh tell me about this 5K what made 
you decide to do this and I don't 
remember which one it was now and I 
think it was the Ravenswood and I said 
well I used to live there when I first 
moved to Chicago you know and we're just 
having this wonderful conversation 
and about a week into it he said well 
you know these conversations have been 
great and I found myself looking forward 
to coming home from work putting the 
kids to bed getting in the tub and then 
reading his email like that was my daily 
I hope this guy emailed me back 
because you're just so great 
and he said I would love to meet you in 
person and get off this website well I 
mean how many guys say that oh my free 
time is expiring so I thought I would 
see another one of those guys and I'm 
like whoa let's talk on the phone so we 
talked on the phone and he asked me out 
and uh he asked me out for Friday night 
and I said Friday night really and I 
remember reading in the book 
uh he's just not Not That Into You if he 
doesn't ask you out on a week and night 
he's not that serious and I thought oh 
Friday night this is Friday night he's 
giving me his Friday night can't believe 
it so we uh we were gonna meet at a 
little restaurant close to where I live 
so in case I had to run home I could 
so we are going to meet there and I I 
was so nervous of course I was running 
late but I did make it in 
and he had this beautiful dozen red 
roses he was sitting at the bar we had a 
glass of wine he goes I and we're 
there's only one table in the restaurant 
that's empty and it's the table he had 
reserved for dinner but I didn't want to 
commit to dinner so we were just sitting 
at the bar drinking a glass of wine so 
after this glass of wine he gives me the 
Roses he says well this is our table if 
you would like to stay for dinner and 
I'm like 
yeah okay I'll I'll stay for dinner 
and why not I thought you know this guy 
seems 
he's nice I I I could really we could 
talk about anything for like a long time 
and I kept thinking oh I can't make this 
date too long it's gonna it's going on 
too long I I should I okay okay dinner 
that's let's separate 
so we had we had a lovely dinner 
and then he asked me out for dessert and 
drinks 
somewhere else like let's go listen to 
some country music I'm like okay 
so we went and did that and uh and I 
thought this is going really well and 
then before the end of the night 
I find out his hobby is screenwriting 
he loves to write plays and TV shows and 
movies no wonder he's such a great 
writer and he's a bit of an introvert I 
mean it was just so fun and before the 
end of the night he asked me out on 
another date for the next weekend and 
from then on he 
closed me every day for the following 
weekend and still 
still does that still to this day and 
we've been dating now 
and we've been married 
how happy it is if you feel like you're 
still dating when you're married that's 
pretty freaking amazing 
So Married almost two years dating seven 
I love that and 
and I know that 
and 
close the loop on this what's the age 
difference between you guys is Jim 
younger than you 
no he's older he's older 
she's six years older 
So within that 10 years that you would 
you had said but he 
he would never know it by the things 
that we do 
100 and I can attest to this because as 
a very Hands-On roll my sleeves updating 
coach as you all know we're I'm in it 
with you Lindsay's in it Eileen's in it 
so when Marilyn and Jim were barely see 
like they were definitely committed we 
knew he was high GHQ they were a 
boyfriend girlfriend it was all good 
Andy and I met them for dinner 
who's gonna get my Maryland right like 
all right and I'm looking at her during 
the dinner I was like this is a keeper 
this is a keeper and we still have that 
picture of the four of us yeah from that 
dinner at summer house where just a nice 
guy good looking 
smart 
self-effacing funny he's tall he's tall 
he's tall for sure right so when she 
came up in age she got in height 
right I will always remember when we met 
at the Four Seasons writing up that list 
because everyone we all have a list of 
our guy right and over six feet was a 
must must have yeah and I'm 5'3 I mean 
you and I are about the same and you had 
said wait wait you really you want 
someone over six foot I mean is that a 
deal breaker and I'm like oh yeah I 
gotta have a tall guy God I have a tall 
guy 
and you're like well you know they all 
come in different packages 
right I mean I was willing to give it up 
but I I'm glad I didn't have to you 
didn't have to but she was very flexible 
on that I always say everybody's the 
same height lying down if you know what 
I mean that's right that's it right so 
so but she got the height gave a little 
an age and and what's so funny and I was 
telling Marilyn like what sparked me to 
have mayor on the podcast was a couple 
months ago you might remember sugar on 
the podcast who talked about finding 
love and sugar if you haven't heard that 
podcast go back and listen to how sugar 
found love she's a twin and Found Love 
with the twin but sugar said Bella you 
had an Instagram live sometime last year 
with this woman who talked about how she 
didn't want to date someone older but 
you convinced her to broaden her age 
parameters and then she met this guy and 
he brought her roses so I thought to my 
myself okay I can expand my distance and 
that's when she met the love of her life 
who ended up being outside of the 50 
miles he was from Milwaukee and so that 
sparked me I was like well if Maryland's 
story sparked sugar and you're both our 
clients then Maryland needs to come tell 
her story so Jim and Marilyn are two 
peas in a pod can't imagine it's like I 
can't imagine you guys with anybody else 
no 
assistant 
and we we have so much fun together 
there's 
and still we talk all the time once a 
month we go and see my mom in 
Mississippi and we drive and it's about 
on a good day it's a 13 hour drive on a 
not so good day it's 15 to 16 hours many 
times Bella we don't even turn the radio 
on we're just talking about our business 
we're talking about our work we're 
talking about what do we want to do as a 
couple we're doing a couples retreat 
next year I'm super excited with an 
another my best friend and her husband 
and 
she has even said you know seeing you 
with Jim this is my best friend of since 
College 
has really changed my marriage with my 
husband oh 
I have Goosebumps so I love that you 
know you just you keep paying it forward 
paying it backwards spreading that 
energy to as many people as you can you 
you don't think you know your best 
friend 
needs your help but then we do things 
with them all the time they're coming to 
stay with us in Key West in a few weeks 
I mean we have a great time that has 
fundamentally changed 
how her and her husband interact and her 
husband says I'm so grateful you met Jim 
he's so fun and we have so much more fun 
now so 
everybody loves Jim they're like uh is 
Jim coming 
I'm like wait I'm coming what doesn't 
that count what about Jim is he coming 
like all the guys they want to hang out 
with Jim everybody loves Jim Jim's like 
a guy's guy but he's also sensitive and 
funny and committed to personal growth 
and just super lovely and I love that 
about the two of you and I loved 
um being invited to your engagement 
party and bringing you that gargantuan 
bottle of champagne I just 
because it was such a Monumental thing 
to me like you it's like you found big 
love so you need a big champagne 
it's awesome we had a lot of champagne 
that night and then being able to get 
married in Key West and share that with 
everyone virtually right we couldn't 
have very many people there but we did 
do a live stream I was there and it was 
so fun yeah there was probably I think 
we had 128 people online on live it was 
amazing it was amazing and beautiful and 
I still have the photos in my camera 
maybe if I can get it together we'll put 
a page up on about Maryland on our 
website and all the fun things she does 
and she's a coach too so she does she's 
if you were gonna have a life coach I 
couldn't recommend anybody more highly 
than you because you're amazing you're 
amazing listen I am a huge believer in 
coaching right I mean let's spin back to 
what you said about 
how this had a ripple effect in my life 
I remember sending you an email about 
the ROI yeah oh talk about that I forgot 
about that because uh you back in the 
day 
you're pretty smart chick when it comes 
to finance you you've got a good solid 
background before you ever came to this 
and I thought I want to tell her because 
it took me a while to pull the trigger 
on this because I had to save up the 
money I was a single mom I was an admin 
my ex-husband did not pay me any child 
support like I could have easily taken 
all the victim mindset and just poured 
it onto myself and I was not gonna do 
that and so I remember when I we got our 
bonus at work I got my income tax return 
I haven't gotten a refund since I got 
married I just will tell you that is the 
one downfall 
but back then as the head of house all 
in as a single mom I did get a refund 
and I put all that together 
and I said you know I know I'm your 
friend but I want to pay you like I 
would be a regular client how much is it 
and it was a lot it was a lot to me at 
that time and I remember writing those 
those checks to you I wrote you two 
checks and I thought oh my God am I this 
is crazy but I want to do this I want to 
do it right I want to do it right for 
myself I want to do it right for my kids 
and I'm in a different place and I need 
this 
and so I hired you and 
I dug into the photo shoot and I 
straightened my hair and I I met with a 
stylist you know I still use 
Annie Francis as my stylist we will meet 
up 
twice a year and she helps me put 
together 
a wardrobe for the season she's amazing 
and I 
started showing up differently at work 
I went to a personal development 
conference through Brendan burchard in 
LA 
and I came back from that and I was on 
fire 
and you were coaching me and I was 
dating and I started to have the 
confidence to ask for projects at work 
you know I don't know why I thought you 
just do the work you have you don't ask 
for more than this 
and I started just saying hey you know 
that thing on the list that we need to 
get done this year I think maybe I could 
take a crack at it what do you I don't 
know maybe 
I'll try 
and I started to see some success 
and I thought 
what would it look like if I could get 
out of being an admin what could I even 
do 
and 
I thought well I can be a project 
manager I started researching and I 
thought I'm gonna I I'm good at projects 
and so I I started talking to people I 
worked with and I said hey do you have 
any projects you know I don't even know 
how I got what I got until I found 
someone who said 
you know actually I do we have this 
bottleneck in the system in the 
packaging system and we don't know 
why it's taking so long but we keep 
missing the deadline for packaging I'm 
like well okay uh let me go try to 
figure it out and I remember printing 
out this huge 
look like 
two giant tables was this long printed 
artwork process of all the steps and the 
gates that you had to go through and you 
know what I identified the three 
bottlenecks and it was human error 
transposing the UPC code 
and she said uh you want a job I'm like 
really 
and I I mean it was probably 
within six months that you and I started 
working together yeah and it was almost 
twice what I have been making 
I mean it was a significant increase 
and I remember sending you a note saying 
this is what I paid you and now this is 
what I made 
and I think this is the ROI that that 
this has impacted my life so much 
what I spent on coaching 
rippled out through everything my kids 
were doing better I was doing better I 
loved what I was doing I loved the 
people I was working with I love the 
projects I was working with 
I loved that I was bringing my best self 
that I was learning and developing and 
now 
I was starting to make more money so I 
wasn't quite paycheck to paycheck I 
wasn't having to do side hustles so much 
and it was a huge 
breakthrough for me to just have one 
person you just believed that there was 
a lid for every pot 
that you were psychotically optimistic 
and that you said I believe in you and I 
think you can do it 
oh I have Goosebumps and not only did 
you find the most amazing tall lid to 
your pot but how many I remember that 
Roi email that you sent how many job 
levels have you been promoted since we 
started together so that was 
admin to project manager 
one to senior project manager two 
to Global manager 
three to now senior Global manager for 
amazing amazing well that probably 
requires another large jug of champagne 
in and of itself it will share at a 
certain point so 
um so if you if 
our dear listener out there is wondering 
could I ever find the lid to my pot what 
would you tell them 
I mean 
first I would say if you haven't found 
it yet 
maybe your secret sauce is hiring a 
coach 
um right that's uh 
that has a process I mean the one thing 
that I loved about working with you is 
you didn't just come at it and say all 
right you can do it let's go you you 
took the time to invest in me and to get 
to know me and to get to know what I 
wanted and what I was about 
and then you assessed if you and I could 
work together because you don't work 
with just anyone no and then you said 
here here are some red flags that I want 
you to watch out for on your picker 
I I didn't no one had ever came to me 
with a plan like that and you had it all 
we're gonna do this and we're gonna do 
this and this is next and this is what 
you're looking for and 
I'm like I'm in I am all 100 in because 
I started to see results and I still go 
back to that and even with my 
girlfriends many of whom are still 
single and I've said and you've met some 
of them at my engagement party still 
single beautiful 
smart 
very very 
well-connected women single 
and I think to myself how much fun has 
it been I mean I love myself too I love 
I have a great time with myself I have a 
great time with my girlfriends 
but Jim just takes it to another level 
totally well I would say 
find someone to believe in you if you 
can't believe in this dream yourself 
find someone who can hold that light for 
you until you can believe it yourself oh 
my God that gave me goosebumps 100 
and it doesn't happen right away it took 
years to find him this didn't happen in 
minutes did it 
now you didn't and even in the beginning 
you know you and I talked about it right 
after the first date I'm like 
I don't know I just I didn't have those 
butterflies I didn't have that feeling 
and you just ignored all that and you 
said did he ask you out again and I said 
well yeah he did okay did you say yes 
well yeah okay well then next like let's 
see I hate butterflies butterflies are 
bad it's anxiety and Tommy telling you 
danger Will Robinson get out butterflies 
are bad 100 so the goal of the first 
date if there's no red flags is to get 
to the second date and the goal the 
second date is 
like to get to the third date I mean I 
know people probably you did the same 
like I'm not even gonna bother telling 
you about the fourth day because it was 
good it was fine and I know you're gonna 
make me go out on the fifth date anyways 
so right I'll be back in touch in a week 
so I'm I'm so delighted for you and the 
transformation of your life and for the 
amazing 
whatever it was that whether it was God 
or the universe that put us together in 
the same room at the Chicago Tribune 
event 
although all that time ago even before 
Home Depot and the bedroom guy right so 
I'm just glad that his lack of response 
in turkey and that long plane ride home 
where you're like enough is enough I 
want someone who as you know My 
Philosophy I want someone who likes you 
just a little bit more than you like 
them and I think you have found yourself 
the perfect man 
amen to that sister 
Marilyn thank you for sharing your 
amazing story I learned things about you 
today that I had never even heard so I 
know you've inspired me I don't know I 
may need to go run a 5k right now after 
this podcast let's go jacked up on on 
good energy into Pellegrino so thank you 
for being here and 
um we I will see you in person soon and 
smart daters I hope that 
you see yourself in Maryland because I 
think when we all look inside we can all 
see ourselves in Maryland and we've all 
done the things maybe we were 17 and 18 
or maybe we were 28 or maybe we're now 
58 but like she said find someone that 
is going to believe in you and hold the 
light for you if you can't hold that 
light yourself so with that 
ping us if you need help we can be that 
light for you or ping somebody that can 
be the light for you and until next week 
I wish you all of the light and I'm 
holding that light for you whether you 
can see it or not thank you for 
listening see you next week 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators happy Friday I hope you've 
been enjoying this week of daily mini 
podcast the feedback we've gotten has 
been amazing and listenership is better 
than ever so first of all thank you for 
being here thank you for following us 
this year it's been exactly a year that 
we launched the podcast 
so we appreciate all that you've done if 
the spirit calls you to it and you've 
loved this week and you've loved this 
year support us write a review give us a 
five star rating because those are the 
things that make us little podcasters 
feel like we're The Little Engine That 
Could so today's Friday and the last day 
of the first week of peak dating season 
and today's topic is creating a dating 
board of directors so I talked about 
this on Good Morning America as part of 
the three pipelines that people can have 
to meet people so if you haven't seen 
the GMA episode I will put it in the 
show notes but we talked about the three 
basic ways that smart daters meet people 
number one is using the apps number two 
is meeting people IRL or in real life 
right joining groups going out meeting 
people at cocktail parties and third one 
is getting set up by friends and family 
now I can tell you having had this 
company for going on 14 years the holy 
grail for all single people what most of 
my clients wish for and people that I 
meet all the time they wish that they 
were fixed up by people now why is that 
getting set up Holy Grail because if you 
know somebody and they want to set you 
up with somebody that they know you 
automatically have a frame of reference 
right you feel so much more at ease with 
a friend of a friend or somebody that 
your sister-in-law knows because you 
feel like there's some common Point 
versus them being some random person 
that you've swiped right to on a dating 
app so dating so getting set up is the 
Holy Grail and now so many clients of 
mine will tell me nobody will set me up 
though my friends and family will always 
be like you're so amazing I just don't 
have have anybody good enough to set you 
up with okay so now what I want you to 
do is if somebody offers to set you up 
with somebody and they're like what are 
you looking for just say I'm looking for 
somebody amazing somebody wonderful and 
be grateful for any setups that anybody 
gives you even if this setup okay 
happens to be a terrible setup okay it's 
like you're single he's single okay 
great you should go out with each other 
and it was not a great date it's okay 
still send that person who set you up a 
note of gratitude saying I'm really 
grateful that you thought of me I think 
he and I will be friends 
um but don't put the Bad Karma out there 
and really kind of rip that person apart 
for setting you up on a bad setup it's 
not that this person thought badly of 
you they were just trying to help I work 
with people all the time the guy that 
owns the salon that I get my hair cut at 
says to me he refuses to set people up 
anymore he's got a girlfriend and has 
for a long time because he wants set up 
two clients and he thought that they'd 
be great together and they weren't great 
together and each one of them was so mad 
at him that one of his clients actually 
fired him for trying to do something out 
of the goodness of his heart so don't do 
that don't put that bad karma out there 
so now I'm talking about setups and what 
to do so let's talk about this dating 
board of directors this idea that I 
spouted out there on GMA and it's 
actually a really fun idea it's 
something I just re get I gave it a cute 
little label about your dating board of 
directors but it's something that we've 
been talking about a long time at Smart 
dating Academy and it's finding the 
super connectors in your network and 
thinking about your network 
strategically okay so what I want you to 
think about is take a step back and to 
create your board of directors what 
we're looking for increa creating a 
board of directors are people it's not 
your best friends it's not your mom the 
people that are closest to you that's 
amazing and maybe they do belong on this 
but the definition of somebody that 
should be on your dating board of 
directors is somebody who is a connector 
right meaning they like to connect 
people I'm a connector I'm a super 
connector right like oh my gosh Jan you 
should meet my friend Katie because you 
both love Oprah's Book Club and I think 
you guys would like each other and you 
live by each other boom I'll put an 
email together create a new friendship I 
am that person now I'm sure in your 
networks you guys have those people that 
have that are connectors and they know a 
lot of people that's a super connector 
they like to make connections and they 
have a lot of connections and they 
follow through with those connections so 
what I want you to do is think about 
your network of people strategically and 
this is where the work comes in okay so 
what I will tell you to do is sit down 
and categorize your life because I want 
you to think about every Ding Dang 
person that you know okay because we 
want to do a very thorough sweep think 
about and I'm just going to give you 
categories like you could set up a 
circle and make lots of little pie 
pieces of you right and so if I had to 
set up Bella Gandhi's board of directors 
if I was single I would say well how do 
I look at every single person I know 
okay I would say well let me look at my 
friends from grade school okay who do I 
still know and keep in touch with and 
then I'd write grade school and then I'd 
write down all the people that I still 
know from grade school with Reckless 
abandon write down everybody that I know 
that I'm in touch with or could get in 
touch with then I say okay I moved in 
middle school middle school 
but write down all the people high 
school then you'd go to college right 
then maybe you were in sports then I got 
out of school I my first job was at 
Arthur Anderson I know a lot of Arthur 
Anderson people right then I went and 
worked in my family's business right 
then and think about time periods of 
your life and all of the people that you 
know through there you'll be surprised 
at how many people you know when you sit 
down and think about it strategically 
right you can also you can think about 
it in this way if you're not a social 
media person even if you are a social 
media person just think about all those 
people and then add your social media 
connections to it look at your Facebook 
look at your LinkedIn look at your Tick 
Tock look at your Instagram really think 
about all the people and now what you 
want to do is do a sweep of all those 
people let's say you end up with 15 
people on your list or maybe you end up 
with 250 people on your list right of 
all the people you know there should be 
a lot of people if you really sit down 
and think about this okay now what I 
want you to do is look at those people 
and look at who are the super connectors 
and you know who they are we all have 
our friends that you know are very 
involved in the community maybe they sit 
on a lot of boards of directors right 
maybe they just are those connectory 
people they're extroverted sweep Clean 
Sweep your list take a highlighter 
highlight the super connectors on your 
list okay or maybe go through your 
Facebook and your LinkedIn but get a 
list of those people and even if you've 
got two people or you might have 20 
people I don't care but those are the 
super connectors in your network so now 
you've got your list okay now what I 
want you to do is sit down and I want 
you to strategically 
tell these people that you're creating a 
personal dating board of directors and 
because they are a super connector and 
then tell them all the things you like 
about them it's like if I wanted to put 
you know Lindsay on my super connector 
list I'd be like Lindsay you're a dating 
coach at that fantastic company Smart 
dating Academy you know so many people 
you're bubbly you're vivacious you know 
so many people you were the president of 
your kids school you know so many people 
would you be on my dating board of 
directors and if Lindsay's like oh my 
gosh you thought of me and you you think 
I'm connected sure I'll be on your board 
of directors then I'll sit with her and 
say okay if you accept a position on my 
board of directors let's look at one 
month out of 2023 and your goal as a 
member of my board of directors is to 
set me up on one date in the month of 
January and she could be like oh my gosh 
I could totally do that okay what are 
you looking for Bella I'd say I'm 
looking for someone wonderful and we 
would sit down and maybe you take 
everybody on your board of directors out 
to lunch have a phone call with them 
have a zoom with them if they live far 
away but give it a little bit of a sense 
of import and then if they agree to be 
on your board of directors then they get 
to say that's your only ask is you get 
to find me at least one fix up for your 
month maybe you want people to set you 
up on two to three dates in a year I 
don't know but this is how I want you to 
set up your dating board of directors 
and you guys when you think about this 
it can work one-third of people have 
been set up by family and friends that 
are married that is an astronomical 
number so I want you to think about who 
are the super connectors in your network 
well first I want you to make a list of 
every single person you know every 
single person take a highlighter 
highlight the super connectors figure 
out who you want on your board of 
directors out of those super connectors 
reach out to them give it a mission make 
them know that it's an honor to be on 
your dating board of directors right and 
then ask them what your ask is set up a 
meeting and see how your dating life 
starts to ship but this is how you 
create your dating board of directors I 
hope that you found this segment useful 
and I hope that you know that if these 
are the little podcasts that we do 
imagine what it would be like to 
actually work with us one-on-one and 
have your own personal dating coach at 
your disposal it's Peak dating season if 
you're interested do the online dating 
love lab or get on our VIP one-on-one 
coaching wait list We are booking well 
into February March and April we would 
love to have you on board send us an 
email and we'll do a call with you to 
see if we're a good Mutual fit so I hope 
that you have enjoyed this series shoot 
us a note datecoach 
smartdatingacademy.com we always want to 
hear from you and with that happy Friday 
smart daters and stay tuned for next 
week's episode with Jackie pelasoff 
divorce girl smiling who is talking 
about the 10 reasons why someone didn't 
call you back for a date it's really 
good and I know you're gonna love it and 
that drops on Monday January 2nd so 
until then I bid you farewell and have a 
beautiful weekend and I look forward to 
meeting you soon 


I'll actually give you a real example 
from this morning we were looking for my 
son's baseball pants you know my husband 
said everything is on the dresser it 
wasn't baseball pants it was some other 
type of pants and I said to my husband 
these aren't baseball pants now he took 
that as a criticism and he got defensive 
it wasn't about him and so when this 
cycle happens something really powerful 
is if you can recognize it's happening 
and choose to do something else instead 
I could have easily stuck in this 
criticism defensiveness thing and 
instead I heard his defensiveness and I 
just picked out the one thing that was 
true and I said you're right and then 
you know he was able to make a joke and 
we split out of it but if I wouldn't 
have been aware we would have kept going 
and our M would have been ruined but we 
fixed our morning pretty quickly because 
luckily this time it was me who 
recognized what was happening he's 
actually usually pretty good at 
recognizing it but if you can do that 
you can really change the dynamic pretty 
quickly 


you have asked and we are delivering 
ladies this is for you or maybe men you 
know you might want to perfect your 
summer face tube i brought on a 
celebrity in her own right my right hand 
makeup artist anissa sabovic who is 
going to tell us how we can perfect our 
summer face tell us about our canvas our 
face our skin 
what do we need to know for this summer 
and while the weather is warm every 
couple weeks your skin renews itself so 
what happens is we're getting these dead 
skin layers on top of dead skin new skin 
growing on top of old skin slough that 
away so you're getting like the good 
skin we're making our way towards like 
summer face summer complexion at some 
point in your regimen incorporate an spf 
if you're going to be out in the sun and 
you know you're going to be out there 
for a prolonged period of time let's 
kick it up to like 50. if you're just 
taking a walk or going out with your dog 
or running out to run errands the 
minimum is 15. 


there's so much value to being able to 
connect and really comprehend our story 
so that we can start to create change 
because the reality of it was is that my 
romantic relationships my friendships 
right like there were limitations and 
constraints and blocks there that kept 
me from having the relationships in life 
that I really desired because I couldn't 
speak up I didn't know how to have 
boundaries I pretended like I was fine I 
had no relationship with my voice 
whatsoever and I really needed 
personally to dive into this work that I 
write about now in order to do you know 
the healing that was necessary to shift 
from disempowered to empowered to move 
from survival to choice right like that 
to me is such a huge part of the healing 
process is reclaiming a relationship 
with choice and actually sort of sitting 
in the driver seat of Our Lives 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find l 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to this week's podcast I am 
jumping out of my skin excited to bring 
you my new friend an 
amazing super industrial rock star 
Vienna faren Vienna welcome to the Smart 
dating 
podcast new friends I love I love it 
we're quick friends uh I'm so excited to 
be here and to chat with you thank you 
for having me okay for those of you who 
might not know which I can't imagine you 
don't know her but Vienna um trained at 
Northwestern she's partially Chicago so 
we talked about that but is a licensed 
marriage and family therapist and one of 
New York City's most sought after 
relationship therapist she's got an 
amazing Instagram mindful mft she's a 
Tik Tok star Vienna so happy to have you 
here let's Dive Right In 
to wounds dating friendships 
relationships all of it tell us about 
you yeah yeah well a lot of times people 
will ask me like how I got into this 
work right um and that's probably a good 
place for us to start because it's 
probably unsurprising that my own life 
story brought me into the work of 
becoming a couple's therapist a family 
therapist with someone who was really 
intrigued and interested in what it what 
goes into making relationships work I 
grew up in a divorced household my 
parents went through a 9-year divorce 
process which at the time was uh the 
record you know in the state of New 
Jersey uh it was a really long drawn out 
process wow n years yeah really really 
long I know that that that uh that 
amount of time has has been surpassed at 
this point um but I you know I was a 
kiddo I was in first grade when when the 
separation started and that was a really 
long time to be going through it and 
obviously really important years of my 
life to be experiencing and bearing 
witness to something that was really 
challenging you know there was a lot of 
chaos there was a lot of conflict there 
was a lot of gaslighting and 
manipulation and psychological abuse and 
paranoia and emotional flooding and I 
always share that I'm an only child as 
well and the reason I share that detail 
is because I was this individual kiddo 
in a family system going through this 
and I think you know this idea of if I 
had had a sibling or neither one of my 
parents repartnered or or if I had had 
another adult in this space who could 
have like understood the experience or 
connected with it validated something I 
think that would have been a really 
different and interesting experience for 
me versus one where just as a kiddo I am 
sitting there watching experiencing 
observing and trying to make sense of 
everything that was going on without 
really having someone else in the space 
to witness you know to really bear 
witness to what was going on and really 
connect with what my experience was I 
became someone just wow yeah 
I know it really was I mean when I 
obviously the work that I do now is is 
reconnecting with you know these younger 
parts of of the self and so there's a 
there's a real tender spot there for her 
uh but when I was a kid watching say 
like the adults were crashing and 
burning around me and as a kiddo I 
decided that my best option was to fly 
under the radar was to become needless I 
became really good at the things that I 
put my mind to and that was my coping 
strategy right that was my way of 
protecting myself and to some degree 
really protecting them I was an it's 
fine girl I'm good girl uh nothing 
bothers me girl which turned me into a 
it's fine woman I'm good woman nothing 
bothers me woman uh the Persona was the 
cool girl you know I was una affected by 
everything I was boundary list and I 
thought that that 
was the least disruptive way to operate 
in the world and I share that right 
because when we look at those early 
years and understand the roles that we 
took on and understand you know you 
mentioned the word wounding obviously I 
talk a lot about wounding in my book uh 
but you know it was like who I became as 
an adult woman was such an extension of 
that again not surprising but there's so 
much value to being able to connect and 
really comprehend our story so that we 
can start to create change because the 
reality of it was is that my romantic 
relationships my friendships right like 
there were limitations and constraints 
and blocks there that kept me from 
having the relationships in life that I 
really desired because I couldn't speak 
up I didn't know how to have boundaries 
I pretended like I was fine I had no 
relationship with my voice voice 
whatsoever and I really needed 
personally to dive into this work that I 
write about now uh in order to do you 
know the healing that was necessary to 
shift from disempowered to empowered to 
move from survival to 
choice right like that to me is such a 
huge part of the healing process is 
reclaiming a relationship with choice 
and act sort of sitting in the driver's 
seat of our lives so little personal 
background there as to why I got into 
this 
space that's amazing I I mean what a 
story and you became the cool girl and 
to some extent The Peacemaker and to 
some extent the one who performed and 
did all of the things correctly which 
makes so much sense at what point do you 
remember or think that you became aware 
of oh [ __ ] my parents' divorce actually 
impacted who I am because I think so 
often we can take we just forget that 
and we lose sense of that did you have 
like that inflection point moment where 
you're like oh my God and the light bulb 
went on well let me tell you I wasn't 
really stubborn for a long time I even 
when I went to grad school to become a 
marriage and family 
therapist while I was in school I was 
like my parents divorce didn't affect me 
my my parents are great friends we do we 
we spend holidays together and that was 
true right there was an evolution to 
their relationship in which they had 
become pretty good friends they would 
come to my lacrosse games together I 
remember uh teammates of mine in my 
senior year of college were like wait 
your parents are divorced you know it it 
struck me that they didn't present in 
that way to the world at that point in 
my life right and so like yeah they're 
great friends we they they travel in the 
car together we have holidays together 
now every everything's good right 
and I just held that story that I wasn't 
affected there wasn't anything to see 
here and I I share that because I think 
so many of us are can be resistant to 
the idea that the past does inde 
impact us or that it maybe has still 
some type of hold on us decades later a 
lot of times people are resistant to 
doing this work of turning back around 
they're like one what am I going to find 
in Pandora's box or two I'm in a place 
now with the relationship with them 
that's good and I don't want to tamper 
with it or three you know they did the 
best that they could or four they were 
so much better than their parents worded 
them so I should just be grateful or 
five they've given up so much and 
sacrificed so much and so I would feel 
foolish to you know complain about 
something and this work is not about 
going on a wild goose hunt we're not 
trying to chase something down we're not 
trying to stay stuck in the past but we 
are trying to acknowledge and honor the 
story right to acknowledge and honor the 
pain to acknowledge and honor the wounds 
and it didn't 
really I wasn't ready to fully see it 
probably until my mid late 20s there's a 
catalyst certainly I was dating someone 
uh whose ex came back into the picture 
and he was trying to figure out whether 
or not he wanted to be back in the 
relationship with her stay in the 
relationship with me and he and I were 
uh monogamous we were dating at that 
time and you know Q it's fine of course 
I totally understand right like both the 
pleaser the Peacekeeper the its fine 
girl is showing up and also a little bit 
of the therapist who holds context for 
everyone is showing up too right cuz I'm 
like there's a story here I he's got 
trauma and I need to hold space for his 
trauma so here I am holding all of this 
space for this person which also right 
like there was truth to it there was 
there was a lot of complicated layers to 
it that I did understand but I remember 
having a conversation with a friend at 
one point and it the light bul did go 
off I was like oh yeah this is the same 
role that I've been in my entire life 
and it really linked to you know 
obviously my early childhood and the 
story that I was sharing before and it's 
funny how resistant we can be one could 
argue didn't you go to grad school for 
this you like you got a degree in this 
like what what happened like to heal my 
own wounds on right and you know and and 
I had done there you know being in grad 
school for this work is like being in 
therapy for a couple of years right it's 
like it's deep it's int ensive and there 
was still beautiful work that did get 
accomplished and I could also lead 
clients to a certain point but I'm also 
a big believer that our own resolution 
as individuals and in the role as 
therapist right is such a huge part in 
where we can take our clients and I 
really needed to continue to do this 
work in order to be able to lead clients 
and push them and guide them and 
challenge them to go further as well and 
so yeah there was that Catalyst where 
there the light bulb moment went off I 
had the AHA and I think I really just 
surrendered to the fact that I had been 
affected and it might seem obvious to 
some folks but if you're a I'm fine 
person the moment that you say I'm not 
fine for the first time really is 
lifechanging yeah and it might sound 
really simple but it's this pivot I talk 
about that in the book right like this 
pivot where we get off of the you know 
the the the tracks in the snow that are 
that are pre-made right if you're go 
cross country skiing let's say right 
it's like ah this is easy I can do this 
the tracks are already here it's the 
moment that you jump out of that into 
fresh powder and oh it's so much harder 
right it's so much more challenging and 
yeah I mean it was a deeply confronting 
moment when I called him up and said I'm 
going to take myself out of the equation 
and it's not actually fine and it has 
felt really disrespectful and I'm I'm 
not okay with what's going on and this 
wasn't a mic drop moment this wasn't uh 
o I feel so empowered now this was a 
deeply distressing moment you know like 
curled up on the bathroom floor crying 
like it was there was contraction that 
happened after after a moment of 
expansion which I think is really 
important for us to know that often 
after we take these moments of expansion 
in our lives where we communicate 
something that we previously wouldn't 
communicate where we set a boundary when 
we normally wouldn't have set a boundary 
right where we do the thing that we're 
working and practicing that it doesn't 
always feel great in fact a lot of the 
time it doesn't feel great at all and 
that doesn't mean that you're on the 
wrong path right the contraction is just 
like oh it almost feels like death 
sometimes I don't mean that dramatically 
but like woo wow I you know I'm still 
here and I survived it but woo I don't 
feel 
great it's so funny that you say that 
because at the in the work that we do at 
Smart dating Academy when we have 
singles that have come in and they have 
chronically you know I call it like our 
Pickers are broken right and it's not 
because were broken it's we were never 
taught how to date and find good healthy 
happy relationships so when we're 
guiding them and if somebody has thrown 
down red flags we've given it a second 
chance they continue right there's some 
it becomes easy not even easy to your 
point we'll teach them how to use their 
voice and say hey you know what when you 
said such and such it made me realize 
that we're not on the same page know I 
am sure you'll find someone else have a 
you know have a nice life I'm kidding 
that's not what we have them say but 
they feel really proud in the moment but 
to your point sometimes there's I call 
it a backpedaling but I like the 
contraction it's oh my god did I just do 
the wrong thing that person was really I 
think that person was great we're like 
they're not great so it becomes this 
moment of second guessing Contracting 
and so 
our job is no you're good you used your 
voice you you took control you set a 
boundary your standard was here and you 
stopped accepting that yeah when we 
create change it requires us to tolerate 
discomfort and that's one of the hardest 
pieces is that our ability to tolerate 
disappointing someone letting someone 
down upsetting someone right whatever 
might be fill in the blank right has to 
increase and that's hard that's hard 
when we are Pleasers that's hard when we 
have a worthiness wound in the driver's 
seat where the most important thing in 
our world is that someone chooses us 
that we're not checking in with 
ourselves that nothing else really 
matters just as long as this person 
wants to be with me right whatever it 
might be I mean there's endless 
storylines but our ability to tolerate 
something 
it's hard because to create change or to 
step from you know disempowerment to 
empowerment there there really is a 
consequence to it if you will there's 
also a victory but we don't see the 
victory in the moment as much the 
consequence is oh this relationship ends 
or I you know I have to put a stop to 
something or someone is going to be 
disappointed in me and that that is 
something that so many of us have lived 
Our Lives doing everything in our power 
to avoid and so when we're asking 
ourselves to step towards that you can 
understand why the system is like woo no 
thank you I I don't think I want to do 
that it doesn't get me the outcome that 
I want right and the outcome for so many 
people to your point is well I want to 
get the third date and I want to get the 
fourth date and I want to get the fifth 
date I'm like this is not a performance 
that you're being graded on I want you 
to stop and think about how did I feel 
when I was on this date like you have 
the steering wheel of your dating life 
no one else does but for so long we have 
exited the driver's seat and sat in the 
passenger seat right it's like I I want 
you to say yes I'm like no you don't you 
don't have to so it's how do I feel and 
using your voice to make sure that 
you're picking people that feel really 
good and really safe for you yeah yeah 
but the Picker you know the Picker can 
be skewed when we have your resolution 
oh go let's go there girl yeah right 
because I think you know when we talk 
about like yeah you're not broken but 
you might be unresolved around something 
right and your picker goes towards that 
which is familiar a lot of the time 
sometimes it'll go to opposition which 
might appear to be pretty nice on the 
surface but opposition isn't actually 
integration um so sometimes you'll see 
people in dating where they like date 
one type and then they swing the 
pendulum all you know it's like the the 
the nasty kind of jerk over here and 
then the like super duper nice like 
really kind of yeah I I don't know 
whatever you want to call it whether 
it's the the nice person the overgiving 
person the this and then they go back 
and forth between the two right and and 
so yeah our Pickers really need 
resolution in order for us to actually 
choose differently in the moment because 
otherwise we're going to be operating 
from a fear-based place right from a 
protective place and to understand what 
it is that we're actually trying to 
protect in a dating process let's say it 
is a really important question for us to 
be 
asking so and I know you probably talk 
for 10 hours about this because this is 
amazing I mean how do we if we feel like 
our Pickers are off and we're listening 
to this going oh my God this sounds like 
me how do we begin this 
work your pattern recognition is really 
important so within the context of 
dating if dating is hasn't been working 
out for you if relationships have 
haven't been working out for you in the 
way that you want we really want to 
understand what the pattern is I always 
say The Unwanted patterns in our lives 
are pointing us to the irresolution from 
the past and so okay gentleness here 
because I'm going to always I'm going to 
remind us of that in this inquiry in our 
curiosity we are moving shame aside 
we're moving self-criticism aside we're 
moving guilt and embarrassment aside and 
just trying to bring some compassion and 
Grace and curiosity forward we have to 
go on this Quest together right and so 
yeah our unwanted patterns which by the 
way if you're human you've got them it's 
like so let's just normalize that right 
off the bat right we all have them say 
it again for the people in the back it's 
like we all got them so no shame there 
and also you might be a little tired of 
yourself you know the reality of it is 
is like I know that frustrated feeling 
where you're like oh again like I keep 
doing the thing that I promise and say 
that I'm not going to do so again 
curiosity right because our choices our 
behaviors the things that we are 
frustrated about The Unwanted patterns 
that keep poking their heads up they're 
they are trying to protect us from 
something and I think that's a beautiful 
way to approach this as opposed to just 
being annoyed and frustrated by it so 
unwanted patterns direct line into 
irresolution so you want to understand 
what's The Unwanted pattern that I keep 
entertaining that I keep finding myself 
in and what is it pointing to so in the 
book I talk about five origin wounds 
which are worthiness belonging 
prioritization trust and safety through 
the work I'm certain that we all 
probably rub up against a worthiness 
wound at some point in our lives but 
worthiness wounds are so deeply 
connected and correlated with 
conditional love so if you grew up in a 
family system where love connection 
attachment validation affirmation peace 
calm Etc were conditional based upon 
your performance your perfectionism your 
ability to please right that might look 
like straight A that might look like 
scoring a hattrick on the sports field 
that might look like being the comic 
relief in the family that might look 
like making mom happy happy that might 
look like right I mean so many different 
things where you learn that if I am this 
way right then love is available to me 
then communication is available to me I 
share when when I was a quote unquote 
good girl my dad was so lovely and 
wonderful and helpful and supportive 
when I stepped out of good girl mode 
punishment through uh silent treatment 
was what would play out and it's just an 
interesting thing to name because it was 
an added layer on top of the I'm I'm 
fine every I'm unaffected I'm unbothered 
I'm good over here on top of it was okay 
only if you show up in the way that is 
okay for him will you have access to him 
his love his help his support Etc but 
once you are slightly difficult and 
slightly cuz I was a pretty good kid to 
be honest right like I felt very 
reasonable for age appropriate let's say 
um then it was withdrawn right then 
there was a then there was a punishment 
and now I don't get love connection help 
support Etc and so you think about like 
as kiddos when we are going through 
things like that how that sets the 
foundation and framework for us don't be 
difficult Vienna because when you're 
difficult it means that people will 
disappear it means that you're not going 
to get the care love attention support 
that you want and so as long as you just 
keep pretending as long as you keep just 
performing then you can create the 
Illusion for yourself that everything is 
okay and everything is fine so you know 
that that worthiness when I think so 
many people can I saw your hand go up so 
my hand went up for those of you who 
aren't watching the video so I mean my 
parents are immigrants from India okay 
so I don't have to go through this we 
don't have you need to go you need to 
get the days you need to do you can be 
this or this you can be a doctor or a 
lawyer and I'm a dating coach and so 
there's lots of things that go into that 
worthiness wound and and you realize it 
and I know you've got a little one and 
one on the way when you're a parent 
you're like oh okay you need to get good 
grades wait am I messing them 
up right right well it's interesting 
right 
because I was just having this 
conversation with my husband as yes we 
have a three-year-old we have one on the 
way and like okay obviously we don't 
want them to experience trauma that 
would be really nice right like right 
like as as parents we're like okay how 
do we protect these sweet angels in the 
world and also we know and I know you've 
had Dr Ali on before she says our gifts 
and our wounds our pain are next door 
neighbors and I love that sound bite 
because what is so true is that so much 
of who we are the the the gift the skill 
set the asset Right comes from the pain 
right it's birthed from it I can tell 
you that I can listen to people's 
stories and remember every single detail 
so easily so well and that's a skill set 
as a therapist but it was birthed from 
having to watch a father who at the time 
was very manipulative gaset my mom I was 
The Observer of this constantly and 
survival and safety meant being able to 
track every single detail so perfectly 
in order to know what was true and what 
was not true she struggled to be able to 
track it I was the one who became 
hypervigilant in that space and was like 
catching him when detective vien totally 
right and like you know it's it's so you 
see oh gosh that came from this 
traumatic wounded experience for you and 
also here is the skill set that you now 
embody as an adult now going back to 
what my husband and I have been chatting 
about is like okay so H can people meet 
Excellence right without having to go 
through something terribly painful 
terribly traumatic and I think where 
we're where I've ended up at least for 
right now is that there's a difference 
between something that's contained 
versus something that's chaotic that we 
can go through initiations that we can 
meet our Edge that we can be pushed to 
an edge but that we can do that either 
safely or not safely at all and I think 
for so many of us it happens in a 
non-safe way and you know I think that 
just that piece of like our kiddos right 
it's like yeah how do we want to protect 
them and we also want to encourage them 
to to meet their Edge and to push and to 
find something that they love or 
inspired by or they're yeah excellent at 
Etc um but to how to do it in a 
contained way and a way that yeah maybe 
is more of an an initiation than a 
chaotic painful scary 
experience amen I took us off somewhere 
for I don't know where what the original 
question was but I I veered us down some 
path no the veering came from me as the 
mother of two teenagers it's like the 
inside musings that we have like yeah my 
parents and this and then when you are a 
parent it's like oh my gosh am I doing 
that to them it's like at a certain 
point I've gotten into listeners you 
know I have a 16-year-old and a 
20-year-old Jad and Max and and I've 
gotten into acceptance like I'm sure I'm 
going like the three negative things 
I've said are going to be the ones that 
stick in their heads right so all I can 
do now I'm like so have I given you any 
bad messages that you carry with you how 
can I love you better right they're like 
oh here we go again I'm like 
okay but that's the beauty I mean when 
when parents ask you know what can we do 
that's it and even if our teenagers roll 
their eyes at us or tell us to like just 
like hit the 
road it's like I hate the way you 
breathe uhuh right it's like it does 
great will take that but for them to 
hear and know that you are thinking 
about this that you're willing to have 
that conversation that you're you have 
the capacity to repair you know our 
greatest one of the greatest things that 
we can offer children is a willingness 
to repair a willingness to take 
ownership a willingness to take 
accountability I work with adults but 
adults who were all children at one 
point and everyone just wants 
acknowledgement and a lot of the time 
we're not going to get that you know 
there's going to be a blockage there but 
I think for the parents who are you know 
think either parents now raising 
children or thinking about raising 
children people are like how do you make 
sure that you don't screw up your kids 
you're like you're going to get so much 
wrong you're going to get you're going 
to say so many things that you wish you 
could take back you're going to try to 
limit that of course but you're not 
going to operate in this perfect system 
and your ability to hold yourself in 
high enough regard as a human being 
where you don't need to self-protect 
when someone says I'm hurt when someone 
says I'm disappointed when someone says 
you've let me down when you can hold 
yourself up and you don't need to 
self-protect then you're able to 
relationally protect which means that 
you're able to hear the story and 
experience of someone else whether that 
be it your child your partner whomever 
and that switch from self- protection 
only to relational protection which mind 
you relational protection includes you 
too so it doesn't mean all of a sudden 
you're not being self protected but to 
go from only self- protection to 
relational protection that says I am I 
can tolerate I have the capacity to hear 
you without needing to protect and 
defend myself without needing to explain 
it away without needing to you know yeah 
give you the context right that's one of 
the greatest gifts and so if we're doing 
that as parents or as partners we're 
doing a pretty good 
job so let the eye rolles come from the 
teenager shut up shut up shut up you 
know I hate you this what it's okay 
because at some point they will be so 
grateful for the acknowledgement the 
recognition the opening the ability to 
repair even if they don't take it at 
this point I that so we talked I love 
what you said a couple of minutes ago 
about one of the most important things 
we can do in dating for example is that 
recognition of patterns yeah right and 
so let's say dear listeners is driving 
taking a walk around Lake Michigan 
wherever he or she they are at this 
point and they're like yeah I think I do 
have a pattern and maybe I'm 
constantly dating people that are 
avoidant or they break my heart or I'm 
missing cues that you know they're 
behaving in a narcissistic way what what 
is what does someone do as part of the 
next step after self-awareness yeah so 
okay let's let's say you date someone 
who's avoidant you're pursuing someone 
who is emotionally unavail a and you 
keep going after it we want to 
understand what that choice is serving 
and what I mean by that is what is that 
choice actually protecting you from now 
you might hear me say that and be like 
nothing NADA that sounds local you know 
like like what what do you mean PR I 
don't want that I don't want that I want 
somebody who's available of course I do 
why would I choose that and yet our 
Behavior suggesting something else and 
so we have to again kindness Grace 
compassion love as we inquire about this 
but when our Behavior right is choosing 
something then we know that it's there's 
an operating system right that is not in 
our minds right like we have to really 
shift kind of out of that because it 
doesn't make practical sense to us 
doesn't make logical sense to us things 
don't don't seem rational to us and so 
when we get caught there and we're like 
this doesn't make sense it's like it 
does but you're trying to think your way 
through it instead of really kind of 
connecting to a very different form of 
intelligence if you will and so yeah 
what is it protecting me from by 
choosing someone who is emotionally 
unavailable okay so a couple of things 
maybe there's a fear of if I were to 
choose someone who were actually 
available I have the Poss possibility of 
needing to be vulnerable and I don't 
know how to be vulnerable or if I choose 
somebody who is actually available then 
my risk of falling in love and really 
getting close to someone and then 
getting hurt when I'm further down the 
road uh is more likely or if I choose 
somebody who is emotionally available 
then I might need to actually reveal 
myself to them or or or right like I 
mean this list can go on and I think 
again what what is it that I am 
protecting myself from through this 
choice right and so you know when again 
when I talk about the wounds in the book 
worthiness belonging prioritization 
safety and trust it what I'm what I'm 
describing is the origin stories the 
first the first experiences that really 
lay the foundation and sort of change 
our traj trory in the way in which we 
relate to the self and others and the 
World At Large through that lens I 
described worthiness just a little bit 
uh before belonging right a sense of 
okay can I Gabor mate talks about how 
our two lifelines as kiddos are 
attachment and authenticity but when 
attachment is threatened we will trade 
authenticity every single time sir 
survival we must we have to and so a lot 
of times people will grow up in a family 
system where okay this is who we are 
this is how we operate this is what we 
believe you have to adapt and adopt that 
otherwise you're out and so it can be a 
family system that's really controlling 
it's where the black sheep of the family 
maybe comes out if you became the rebel 
at some point um there might be sort of 
this sense of like ah I don't fit in 
here even though fitting in and 
belonging or different right it's like 
ah I don't feel like I fit in here I 
don't feel accepted here I don't feel 
seen or heard or understood or 
comprehended here and I have to change 
who I am in order to quote unquote 
belong belong yeah and so we lose our 
authenticity a lot of time with a 
belonging wound 
prioritization pretty straightforward 
where you didn't feel like you were in 
important to the important people in 
your life so maybe you had a parent or 
adult in your life who was a workaholic 
someone who struggled with addiction 
maybe you had a sibling who had mental 
health challenges um and a lot of the 
attention went there maybe there was 
high conflict in the relationship and 
that was the priority maybe there was a 
divorce and Mom started dating quite a 
bit and her dating life was the priority 
over you right like there's a lot of 
things that can play out to where it is 
we don't feel like we're the priority so 
you think about present day okay how do 
we show up in relationships are you 
someone who over prioritizes everyone 
else as an attempt to teach people and 
show people and model to people the way 
in which you want to feel prioritized do 
you choose a partner who even though it 
doesn't have to be Apples to Apples 
let's say you had an alcoholic parent 
but now you've chosen someone who works 
late every single day right that there 
is something else that is a priority in 
their lives and your experience is one 
in which you are feeling deep 
prioritized right so we're looking at 
the ways in which we partner with people 
where our wounds are actually getting 
rubbed up against the trust wound right 
also pretty straightforward where 
there's a rupture and trust this can be 
you know an infidelity it could be you 
know a parent gambling way a college 
fund it could be family secrets those 
are big ones that we hear a lot of 
whether it's you holding one or someone 
in the Family holding one from you and 
you finding out about it later and it 
creates a hyper vigil it does the same 
thing with safety when there's an 
absence of safety right it's like it 
turns us into this hyper Vigilant 
individual who's kind of scanning our 
environments and waiting for the other 
shoe to drop or waiting for something 
bad to happen or you know maybe you got 
the message growing up that you can't 
trust men anybody period right and it's 
like and now you you struggle with that 
narrative and it's really hard for you 
to move through the world believing 
people trusting that they're not lying 
to you trusting that they're not 
deceiving you trusting that they're 
caring for your overall well-being right 
and so when we look at these origin 
wounds a lot of the time we're going to 
see that The Unwanted pattern present 
day is really connected to 
that and so as you so beautifully 
articulated these Five Wounds I'm 
guessing many of us myself included can 
say 
yeah yep yep do we all have these in 
like a different weighted average as 
part of Being 
Human I would say that so I have some 
folks who will reach out to me and be 
like is it possible to have all 
five it's possible have all yeah 
absolutely and I think there's also ones 
where there's like a primary Orin wound 
right I have struggled with worthiness 
I've strugg struggled with trust I've 
struggled with safety uh prioritization 
and belonging are not ones that really 
ring the bell for me as much um and also 
of course like The Human Experience 
there can be moments and time where 
maybe we don't feel like we're belonging 
or we're feeling really lonely or we 
didn't feel like a priority to someone 
in an acute event we're not talking 
really about the oneoff moments though 
we're talking about the things that 
repeat over and over and over again of 
course when someone doesn't prioritize 
us most of us are like ah that kind of 
stung sucked you know right um but it 
doesn't necessarily take over for us 
wounds your resolution will take over 
more right it will be where we can't get 
over it right it'll be where we really 
struggle deeply with it and again those 
patterns is not going to play out if we 
don't have ear resolution around a wound 
the pattern really only plays out when 
there's ear resolution there when 
there's still work for us to do and you 
know the 
work listen it's not like a follow these 
four steps and you're done you know it's 
like this is not a you know Vogue 
article from 1990 uh but our work which 
I do dive obviously much further into in 
the book is about naming what our wounds 
are it's about being able to witness 
ourselves and so when you were talking 
about seeing that little girl that first 
grader who you know went through a lot 
and baby V baby V yeah right it's like 
there's a witnessing that has to happen 
there I'm a really big believer that you 
can't heal without witnessing witnessing 
has to take place and whether that is 
witnessing with self so I'm seeing 
myself or whether that's a therapist 
witnessing you or a partner witnessing 
you or a dear friend witnessing you 
right it can be anyone it doesn't have 
to be the person who put the pain there 
in the first place so thank goodness for 
that but witnessing does need to happen 
and when we witness what it does is it 
leads us to grief right which is just 
the authentic expression of emotion that 
comes forward when we are in this space 
of witnessing and I guide people through 
all of this but my big belief is that 
you know maybe heard the Victor Frankle 
it's a attributed to Victor Frankle 
Frankle the quote about between stimulus 
and response there is a pause right and 
in that pause is that is this space 
where we either we have the the 
opportunity for freedom and when we're 
doing this work what I believe happens 
is that we are extending the pause and 
when we're extending the pause what 
happens is we're we're giving ourselves 
an opportunity to choose and that's what 
I said at the beginning of our 
conversation is that healing is about 
moving from survival to choice right and 
so when we're doing this work to 
understand oof here's how I'm activated 
here's how I'm triggered right now or 
Here's the the red flag or here's the 
pattern o I see it oh this person I like 
want to keep pursuing them but I but I I 
know that they're I know that they're 
emotionally unavailable like I can I can 
see it right they're not responding to 
to me they they respond with you know 
one-word answers maybe when we go on the 
date and I ask questions they don't 
really want to go there you know they're 
never actually setting up the next date 
I'm the one who always has to do it and 
it takes a couple of weeks well yep uhuh 
uh right it's like all of those things 
and like okay we notice those moments 
and so then we're like okay but what do 
I know well I know that my worthiness 
wound gets activated here a lot and that 
I have historically believe that my 
worth is dependent on somebody else 
choosing me so I keep chasing this 
person to try to get them to choose me 
if I can just convince them that I'm 
great if we can I can just get to the 
fifth date then they'll become 
emotionally available all of a sudden 
whatever story we might tell ourselves 
and so when we're doing this work and we 
can understand oh this wound wants to 
grab the wheel but I've spent the time I 
have processed I have grieved I have 
have witnessed then I can stand there 
and I can choose I have the opportunity 
to choose differently and we still might 
not always choose differently in the 
moment right sometimes it's just about 
the awareness I always say like healing 
isn't always about the outcome right 
like healing is sometimes like I see my 
worthiness wound and I'm still going to 
pursue the emotionally unavailable 
person you know it's like all right 
that's okay that's part of the titration 
right to moving in that direction but if 
I can start to acknowledge this if I can 
start to name this right then I have 
more of a possibility and chance to 
choose differently and to get to the 
place where you know where I described 
when you asked me about the Catalyst in 
my life which was yeah this is hard and 
it wasn't like a big celebration 
afterwards but here was this moment in 
my mid- late 20s where I was finally 
saying I am bothered by it I am affected 
by it this isn't okay I don't feel 
respected and I did it differently and I 
was able to do it because I had done 
this work that I'm describing that I 
talk a lot about in the book 
and listen Big Gulp big breath because 
it's not easy work and it doesn't just 
happen like this you know I'm I'm 
speaking about it very quickly but it's 
you know this is this is Lifetime work 
but it's beautiful lifetime work because 
it's the work that gets us to the types 
of relationships That We crave the way 
that we want to see ourselves in 
relationship or this isn't just about 
attracting a certain type of partner 
this is about liking ourselves in 
relationships liking the way that we 
communicate liking the way that we 
navigate conflict gosh I 
was I can still be a point 
prover let me just lovingly call myself 
Point prover I love it you're like I 
have an Affliction it's called to be 
right I want to be right and I remember 
having a conflict with my husband before 
before it was my husband it's a spoiler 
alert it worked out but still I having 
this conflict I have no idea what the 
comy is about but I'm proving my point 
up and down doubling down tripling down 
he's like I got to be I understand and I 
keep going keep going keep going and you 
know the shame hits for a moment and 
then I replace it with curiosity as 
quickly as possible I'm like oh to be 
right was really correlated and 
connected to what it was like to be a 
kiddo watching 
gaslighting manipulation happen over and 
over and over again being right was 
quite literally safe being wrong was 
unsafe my dad was right my mom was wrong 
every single time based on his 
perspective and his ability to do what 
he did so masterfully and so to be right 
in Conflict was safety for me except my 
perceived safety was disconnective and 
damaging to a relationship ship and I 
just again very quickly share that story 
because our work in this is not just 
okay how do I fix my picker and you know 
get how are we showing up in a way where 
other people also want to be with us 
because that's not great to be a point 
prover all the time that is not I don't 
think anybody wants to be with a point 
prover all the time and around that 
that's not nice to be around and so it's 
not about shaming myself or guilt 
tripping self but it is about looking at 
that part understanding where it came 
from bringing some compassion forward 
and then working with it so that that 
part is not in the driver's seat so that 
I am in the driver's seat and I can 
navigate that differently and you can 
take that pause to your point vnn 
instead of I you know with our clients I 
call it you can choose in that moment to 
respond versus react yeah and so you we 
talk about picking partners that are 
better for us our work is also being a 
better partner and you're right this is 
about the work and it's continuing to 
self- titrate 
through through all of it I mean I can 
tell you as having been married for 27 
years it's a constant it's it's a 
constant Evolution but the good news is 
is that when you continue to do I don't 
think we ever get to the point where we 
can just stop holding up the mirror 
right even when we get better sometimes 
it feeds that like wow let me look what 
was my role in this like could I have 
been better right and and but being open 
to that growth and to your point which I 
love it is you can witness it but then 
you be 
compassionate about it I did the best I 
could in that moment versus going god 
I'm an idiot I blew it again I just mess 
this up I mess everything up because 
that's so damning at the end of the day 
so looking and speaking to yourself like 
you would speak to your best friend so 
important yes thanks for saying that 
we're so not good at that sometimes 
myself included I know it's easy to get 
lost in that but that's the work right 
to bring curiosity and compassion 
forward you know when we have access to 
it to try to have access to it as much 
as 
possible well I know um I could talk to 
you for another 10 episodes or 10 hours 
but let me ask you two questions number 
one is there anything I didn't ask you 
that you would like to impart to smart 
daters and if yes Drew and also where 
can we get more Vienna tell us about the 
book tell us about all of the things you 
yeah yeah 
well I think you were saying this before 
which is don't forget about your own 
experience in the dating process again A 
lot of times we're really conditioned to 
try to get others to want us choose us 
desire us pick us Etc and we lose track 
of what it is that we actually feel and 
what it is that we actually want and 
whether we actually like this person or 
are interested in a second third fourth 
date with this person I also say and I 
said this before but it's worth 
reiterating is that change will ask you 
to tolerate 
discomfort and we have to get willing 
and capable of doing that because moving 
in the direction of the things that you 
say you want will likely require you 
to disappoint some people it will likely 
require you to end things uh 
and when you normally don't you know 
it's like it's just like the gut punches 
and so to be able to begin to tolerate 
that and trust that in your expansion of 
the tolerances actually you moving in 
the direction of what you actually want 
and say you want um okay where you can 
find me you can find me at mindful mft 
on Instagram you can find me at Vienna 
far.com New York couples counseling.com 
um I have a group practice uh where we 
are in person in New York but we also 
service a lot of other states as well so 
if people are looking for for therapists 
um I have a wonderful crew uh and yeah 
the book is called the origins of you 
how breaking family patterns can 
Liberate the way we live in love uh it's 
deep work uh and really beautiful work 
and there's a lot of Storytelling that I 
do in the book which I think is a really 
great way to learn because sometimes 
when we're looking at our own selves 
we're a little bit more prickly but when 
we're learning through other people's 
stories right it's like oo I can see 
myself or I can see this part in someone 
else and so sometimes it can be a 
gentler invitation uh into 
self-reflection and self inquiry uh so I 
hope that people will pick up a copy and 
start reading or listening today oh 
we'll put it in the show notes for sure 
so thank you so much for spending this 
time with us I feel I feel a little more 
expansive after this 
so super awesome and smart daters 
remember 
um continue to look at yourselves and 
this process and continue to know and I 
want you to take this you guys know be 
psychotically optimistic about the fact 
that love is out there for you and a 
better happier love than you have had so 
I want you to have a little kick in your 
step and know that we have sprinkled 
this good Juju on you for this week and 
until our next episode thank you for 
listening and thank you for being here 
BNA thanks for having me 


so what i'm going to teach you about 
today are many tips about becoming 
sherlock holmes and being able to decode 
the body language of the person that you 
are chatting with the person that you 
might be in a meeting with you might be 
on a date with you might be on a video 
chat with how do you know that this 
person 
is into you right i always tell our 
smart dating academy clients watch what 
they do not necessarily what they say 
right and do is also let's look at body 
language and why is body language 
important 93 
did you hear me 93 of the way that we 
interpret people whether we have a 
positive first impression or a negative 
or neutral 93 
is based on 
non-verbal communication 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love welcome back 
smart daters I am literally jumping out 
of my skin with excitement to share this 
amazing guest with you someone whose 
work I have fangirled over for months in 
fact quite frankly I have to tell you 
guys even before we hit record on this 
podcast I had to talk to her for 20 
minutes just because I wanted to get to 
know this Phenom so today I have with me 
who's going to answer all of your 
questions the love doctor Dr Terry 
orbuck she is a world-renowned 
relationship expert author speaker 
therapist date and relation coach and 
distinguished professor at Oakland 
University Research professor at 
University of Michigan she is a prolific 
author a beautiful human being inside 
and out she is a wife she is a mother 
she is a gentle soul 
Terry welcome to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast oh thank you Bella that 
was such an amazing introduction I am 
honored to be here today and talk with 
you and your listeners oh my gosh I am 
so excited you guys Terry has written 
how many books have you written well I 
have written three popular books a lot 
of academic books that nobody reads 
Bella except my academic colleagues and 
my husband hasn't even read them so I 
like to say three popular books 
well that's amazing well tell us and I 
know your books are great and I have one 
of them sitting on my desk right now 
called the secrets to surviving your 
children's love relationships and we're 
gonna get into that one at the end and I 
might tell you why it's of personal 
interest to me because you know I might 
have an 18 year old daughter and I might 
have a 14 year old son and they might be 
developing into prolific data so Terry 
tell us one of the things I love about 
you and there's so many things is that 
everything you do is rooted in data it's 
rooted in research it's rooted in 
science as much as what you and I can do 
so tell us about you and this amazing 
research project that has been following 
doing the same couples for over 30 years 
amazing it is a wonderful project Bella 
I'm really a scientist at my core and so 
I have this NIH National Institutes of 
Health Project which is funded by the 
national government and as you said 
we've been following the same 
373 couples now for over 30 years and we 
continue to follow them so I am 
continuing to 
submit these applications to the federal 
government to follow them into the 
future it's the largest project of its 
kind and we interview them face to face 
both as individuals and as couples 
46 of the couples have divorced which is 
actually the national average the 
divorce rate in the United States and I 
always like to say 
71 of those people who got divorced have 
found love again so I think that's a 
wonderful optimistic statistic from this 
study so it's a great project it's large 
it's 
really has these great data so that I 
can write the popular books and that 
they are science based for everyone as 
well so science should be fun that's 
what I'm all about trying to make 
science fun for all of us yeah and fun 
and comprehensible right so we can 
actually take from all this amazing 
research and apply it to our own lives 
so if you had to tell us as you followed 
this is it 373 couples you said correct 
yeah yes and 46 of them divorced so 
let's say of the 46 that divorce what 
were let's say the top three reasons 
that they divorced 
good question well the number one reason 
is what I like to say frustration and 
frustration is the difference between 
what you expect to happen in your 
relationship those should statements 
that we all have in our mind we all have 
them 
and the realities of our relationship 
so when there's a big difference between 
what we expect and what we get we become 
frustrated and frustration eats away at 
happiness in a relationship and the 
great thing about my study Bella is that 
I'm able to see when people have these 
unrealistic expectations about their 
relationship or relationships in general 
I can see happiness decline when the 
realities of their relationships don't 
match those unrealistic expectations so 
for example many people think that good 
relationships have no conflict or good 
relationships have little conflict and 
that really isn't the case as we've been 
following these couples over time it's 
really all about how you handle the 
disagreements not whether you have 
conflict and in fact there were 12 
couples in my study in year one who said 
we never fight we never have conflict 
none of those couples were still 
together in year three 
oh absolutely having these I know 
so having these unrealistic expectations 
can really lead to unhappiness and that 
breaks couples apart over time so that 
that's what I say is the number one 
thing that leads to divorce 
second frustration is what I call 
affirmation 
the degree to which you make your 
partner feel special seen cared for 
valued and feel loved 
when you feel like you're really loved 
and seen by your partner 
you report or couples are significantly 
two times less likely to divorce over 
time 
so when a spouse says yes my partner 
makes me feel valued special loved cared 
for that couple is two times less likely 
to get divorced over time and by the way 
that is more significant for men than it 
is for women 
not surprising not surprising not 
surprising right not surprising what I 
found is that men crave affirmation from 
their Partners much more and they need 
it much more to feel okay and happy in 
their relationships than women do 
and at first this was actually 
surprising to me Bella I'll admit 
honestly it was surprising because I 
thought it was going to be the opposite 
that it would be more important for 
women than it was for men but what I 
found is that men don't get that 
affirmation 
feel loved valued cared for outside of 
their romantic relationship whereas 
women we get it a lot we get it from our 
friends you just gave me such 
affirmation in your introduction but we 
get it from our sisters our best friends 
our mothers our children our neighbors 
even the stranger when I walk into a 
coffee shop and says oh Terry you know 
the Barista says Terry you know wow you 
just got a new haircut I like it right 
but men don't get that and so they crave 
it need it for the happiness in a 
relationship 
so it's extremely important 
huge science-based strategy to wake up 
every single day and give your romantic 
partner affirmation and you can do that 
through words or through behaviors you 
can tell them you love them you're great 
you're wonderful I love you more now 
than I've ever loved you 
or you can show them through a behavior 
and action you can hug them you can make 
them a favorite dessert turn on the 
coffee pot in the morning fix their 
computer put gas in their car anything 
that shows your partner that they are 
seeing because we all want to feel value 
I will tell you that my husband every 
morning 
brings me a hot cup of coffee in bed and 
usually gives me a hug right after he 
puts the coffee on the nightstand like 
how and he doesn't have to say to me wow 
you look just as beautiful in the 
morning after eight hours of sleep with 
the sleep mask on and your hair all must 
up as you did last night at the Gala No 
it's behaviors and that makes me every 
morning feel loved and seen and when 
he's out of town I miss that and then I 
tell him like this is so special that 
you do this for me all of the time so 
it's an amazing way to affirm your 
partner and I tell them every day this 
means the world to me you start my day 
off in the perfect way like how can the 
day go badly right and so those 
strategies work you guys listen to this 
and even if you are manifest infesting 
your soul mate even if you are going on 
a date this evening if you are 
corresponding with people online right 
now if you can find a way to affirm this 
person even though they're not yet your 
partner find someone in your life to 
affirm today you are doing what's it's 
God's work it's crucial work it is 
putting more love in the world you are 
seeing someone and you are telling them 
what's good about them instead of just 
noting it in File 13 in your brain and 
walking on you will change the course of 
that person's day 
totally I love all of what you just said 
Bella is so very important to put love 
and kindness out into the world and by 
the way there is an added bonus when you 
give affirmation to others you are more 
likely to get it in return it's called 
The Law of reciprocity in Psychology 
that when we affirm others not 
immediately but over time that person 
will affirm us as well so there is that 
added bonus not only a general wonderful 
thing to add kindness and love in the 
world and change other people's lives 
but you will get it in return as well 
wow it's like you get what you give 
essentially the law of reciprocity I 
like that 
um that's amazing and and another thing 
that you said that's so important about 
frustration and the expectations of no 
conflict in relationships right and so 
much of that comes from Harlequin 
romances and and Hollywood and Bollywood 
and social media but expecting no 
conflict is such a Surefire way for 
disenchantment in any relationship a 
romantic relationship a friendship 
whenever you have two human beings 
together that are trying to have an 
authentic relationship there will be 
friction 
right with employees I run a company you 
teach students and the way we teach 
conflict both in my house as well as at 
you know at our team at Smart dating 
Academy and in my extended families 
conflict is good as long as you have 
rules of engagement around it 
de-escalate it don't scream and yell at 
each other have a drink of water come 
back to it in 30 minutes and most 
importantly look at conflict as a way to 
get you to a better spot in your 
relationship you can look at that if you 
imagine your relationship with anybody 
as climbing a mountain and it's this 
beautiful never-ending mountain and 
every time you have a conflict you use 
that metaphorically and mentally to say 
this conflict and the resolution of it 
effectively is going to make us more 
authentic with each other understand 
each other better we're going to get to 
a better place what's bad about that 
look at conflict as a good thing as a 
good thing and you grow that's what I 
hear you saying is that you will grow 
and another thing that I found in my 
study that's so relevant to what you're 
saying Bella is that people need to 
address the small things that happen in 
their romantic relationships I think 
we've learned again an unrealistic 
expectation to pick your battles but I 
actually found in my study following 
these couples the opposite if you wait 
to pick your battles because you think 
something is too small or you don't want 
to bring it up because you might have 
conflict it grows inside and where it 
may have been easy to deal and address 
with he doesn't put the toilet seat back 
down or she doesn't roll the toothpaste 
well or whatever a small thing right 
right people always talk about in my 
study but if you don't address it at 
that point it grows and it gets bigger 
and bigger and then it's really 
difficult to unpack you don't love me 
you don't hear me we're not right for 
one another and so I think couples also 
need to understand to bring up small 
things not to just pick your battles so 
that they can get resolved as you're 
saying that we can grow we can learn how 
to address our differences 
oh I love that so much and you're so 
right about picking your battles if you 
are constantly pushing down the little 
things you become a pressure cooker and 
at some point it's going to burst open 
in this sort of icky everything comes 
out uncontrolled and your feelings are 
so much more escalated than they should 
be so that's really good advice and what 
one thing that works with my husband is 
you know what would make me so happy is 
if you would roll the toothpaste or if 
it would make me so happy if you would 
pick your towel up off the carpet even 
though I've told you this 850 
000 times in the last 25 years it would 
make me so happy if you did that with a 
smile and so much of you know when we're 
women we're doing multiple things I 
always say we're like octopuses or 
octopi and we've got eight plates up in 
the air and we're juggling so many 
things and it's like oh can you just do 
this I've told you so many times Instead 
try and say it from a place of love 
because men to your point need 
affirmation ostensibly more than women 
do and if you put it in the terms of it 
would make me so happy if right because 
they know if Mom is Happy everybody's 
happy right and you've basically told 
him this would make me happy go do it 
versus I hate when you don't do this 
it's just a little Nuance but it works 
wonders in our house that one helps you 
go for it I love that Bella and I 
totally agree with you and is focusing 
on the positive and what you need and 
using your I statements which are all 
wonderful and another thing that I found 
in my study which is a relevant to what 
you said as well is that when we point 
out the negative to men and this came 
from the males in my study when you 
point out the negative or what you're 
not doing right they assume that 
everything is wrong they're to blame and 
they become less positive and less happy 
over time so just switching it to like 
you said your eyes statement this makes 
me happy and what they can do rather 
than what they're not doing because 
they're fixers they want to fix it but 
it's all them is change it to what you 
said because that was another really 
interesting finding in my study men 
don't like negatives men don't like the 
problems that we bring up instead 
refocus it reframe it 
oh I love that so much and sometimes a 
useful tool for what Terry's saying is 
imagine the man in your life as a 
seven-year-old boy on the playground 
who wants to please his teacher or 
please his mom or please his classmates 
and he wants the Atta boys and when you 
change your phraseology around focusing 
on the positive I really loved it when 
you picked up the towel that was amazing 
you know what because with that positive 
reinforcement guess what he'll probably 
pick it up again tomorrow and right I'm 
just asking for a friend not that my 
husband would leave wet towels on the 
floor 
so 
um so super 
um super interesting so tell you know 
in your work Terry as a dating coach and 
as a professor and all the amazing 
things that you do what do you think is 
the number one factor that leads singles 
to finding love well I can tell you from 
my work as a date coach and as a 
professor but I can also tell you in my 
long-term study because we continue to 
follow the individuals who experience 
divorce and who experience the loss 
death of a spouse the number one 
predictor of those people finding love 
is that they are able to let go of the 
strong emotional baggage connected to a 
previous relationship so what does that 
mean that means when people in my study 
were single said I don't feel much of 
anything toward my ex 
or I'm neutral I don't feel strongly 
positive I don't feel strongly negative 
I'm not pining away I'm not really 
pissed at them again when they said I'm 
neutral 
again statistically they were two times 
more likely to find a happy healthy 
relationship going forward 
so it's very important I know we all 
have emotional baggage we all do that we 
have some emotion connected to the past 
but I'd like to compare it to going on 
an airplane right you get to the gate 
and there are some people I love these 
people who get on an airplane and only 
have a briefcase or a purse or a little 
small bag that's not me by the way Bella 
me neither me neither I mean right they 
go right onto the plane so they have low 
emotional baggage they're not strongly 
connected to the past they go right 
forward and meet somebody new or they're 
onto the plane but those people who have 
a large bag it's overflowing and then 
the person at the gate says stop you 
cannot go forward 
that's a great metaphor for people who 
are still strongly emotionally connected 
to the past we need to let go of the 
anger we need to let go of the wanting 
the frustration the blaming ourselves in 
order to be fully present not compare 
current people or future people to the 
past and fully move forward to a new 
happy healthy relationship so that's 
what I found in my study and I've also 
seen that in my experience with students 
and my work as a date coach a marriage 
and family therapist as well and I know 
that we can talk about how to do that 
but it's that was going to be my next 
question could you leave the bubble over 
my head because so many people have been 
through trauma things that you know 
death of their soulmate they've been 
through you know 
infidelity of every kind you know 
physical infidelity emotional infidelity 
Financial infidelity right and how do 
you is there how do you do that so many 
people come to the dating world and you 
can tell they're still angry even though 
they might have been through years of 
therapy like is there something that we 
can do to reduce to get to that place 
that you're talking about where you are 
at least net neutral to your past right 
well first of all it is very challenging 
and I have to recognize exactly what 
you're saying it is difficult it is hard 
it is normal that you come and you do 
have that emotional baggage that anger 
that frustration that disappointment 
that yourself or others so I just have 
to say that people are not alone 
it's not just you I think that there are 
many strategies but my favorite strategy 
Bella is what I call reassigning blame 
so when we experience a relationship 
breakup or a divorce we tend to blame 
other partner he had an affair she 
wasn't emotionally available 
she you know wasn't this whatever it may 
be 
or we blame ourselves I wasn't ready I 
could have done this I should have done 
that 
when we blame other partner we hold on 
to the anger and the frustration and 
when we blame ourselves we hold on to 
the sadness the pining the desire to 
have that person back in our life so 
what we want to do is reassign the blame 
and make we blame statements they're 
called relationship blame statements and 
there's so much great research to 
support this so if we can say my 
relationship undid because we weren't 
compatible because we were too young 
when we got married because we had 
different relationship goals we didn't 
know how to communicate or handle 
conflict well 
when we blame the relationship for us 
you can even hear it in my voice when I 
make a we statement that it lets go of 
the anger 
or the disappointment or sadness or 
pining and desire 
and so that's a really interesting 
strategy that we can use if we want to 
let go of the password if we have to let 
go of the past and I have clients write 
down four or five statements and say 
them every day because what we want to 
try to do from a psychological point of 
view is change our brain weights change 
what we automatically think and that 
takes at least 21 days of doing a 
different habit of doing a different 
routine so writing saying seeing those 
we blame statements over 21 days I even 
tell clients to do it right before you 
go to bed because then you have the 
benefit of eight seven six hours 
whatever hours you get of sleep 
of your brain focusing on 
that new brain habit 
so two times a day for 21 days we 
statements you will find that you will 
let go of that emotional baggage so 
that's one strategy let me ask you a 
question right on that because I love 
this so much and I want so let's say my 
partner 
cheated on me 
how do I turn that into a restatement 
and it is very difficult because we want 
to blame that present right my partner 
did the infidelity I didn't 
but think about what you want or need 
and what your partner wants or needs we 
were not compatible in our view of 
commitment we had different ideas about 
what it takes to have a happy loving 
relationship we wanted different things 
from each other 
so when we do that we let go of that 
anger then I know we have if there's 
been a betrayal or an infidelity and 
there are betrayals the trails are when 
somebody breaks our trust and there are 
many betrayals that occur in 
relationships only one of which is 
infidelity right right right and that's 
such a great poignant example right 
because so often we want to as you said 
when we blame the other person we feel 
angry when we blame ourself and we turn 
that mirror inward we feel sadness and 
sadness and anger they suck right like 
let's just call a spade a spade those 
are not emotions any of us really want 
to be feeling 
um I I don't know if one is better or 
worse than the other they're both you 
know 
right they're both detrimental to us 
when we feel them but also think about 
going out on a first date with somebody 
who's really angry or really sad that's 
not the person who you're going to have 
or want a second date with 
so turn that around if you are angry if 
you haven't let go of that or you are 
sad pining away and you haven't let go 
of that you are most likely not going to 
be the person that somebody wants a 
second date with either 
exactly because if you put that anger or 
that sadness out there people are 
looking for that guys they are looking 
for that on the first second third 
fourth fifth date like are you angry are 
you bitter are you still sad about the 
loss of your loved one right so we're 
very our antenna and I are tuned in for 
those things from a self-protection 
standpoint I want to make sure if I go 
out on a date with the man that has lost 
his wife in the last few years my first 
question is is he is he through the 
tunnel yet he'll never get over it but 
is he in a good place so what are my 
antennae looking for I'm holding up my 
red flag any signs of sadness or not 
having walked through the tunnel right 
the only way to get through something is 
to get through it and to walk through it 
right there's no skirting it exactly and 
it doesn't mean you have to forget it 
like you're saying when a widow 
experienced the loss of a of a romantic 
partner you don't have to forget that 
person you don't have to forget or not 
grieve or even come birthday our 
anniversary or get that person but like 
you said get through the tunnel get 
through the tunnel yeah absolutely and 
now speaking of 
relationships and now let's flip that 
let's flip the switch here let's say we 
found someone and we think oh my gosh I 
think I call them you know the lid to 
your pot and that's kind of our you know 
let's say that you think you found the 
lid to your pot and maybe you've been on 
15 dates or 20 dates or you've been 
exclusive with this person for six to 12 
months Terry in your vast experience is 
there a way to ascertain is this person 
the one 
I think the answer is yes but there is a 
way okay there are three questions that 
I think you want to ask yourself 
first is about trust do you trust this 
person and do you have a trusting 
relationship because when we look at 
relationships fella over time trust is 
the number one essential vital most 
important ingredient to a happy healthy 
relationship if you don't have trust you 
can't have commitment you can't have 
love and you can't last 
for a long time so trust is really 
important and we're talking about and 
when we're talking about trust we're 
saying that this person is open and 
honest and has my best interests at 
heart and they're predictable that's I 
think the definition of trust in the 
academic world and I think so there are 
questions that you can ask yourself is 
this person reliable do they have my 
best interests at heart 
um and it's not that they only think of 
me but let's say we're going out for 
dinner and they know that I'm a 
vegetarian do they pick his Steakhouse 
right 
or if they know I'm you know having 
money issues this week or month do they 
pick the most expensive thing to do when 
we're both paying so they're thinking of 
me and my best interests and it's so 
very important and if you can't decipher 
that I encourage people to have what I 
call a trust chat which means you sit 
down with that person and you talk about 
what's your definition of commitment 
what is trust to you uh what do you 
think about infidelity 
right so you want to have a trust chat 
so that's question one question two is 
do we have the same key life values 
and so I'm not talking about similarity 
and hobbies or interests because as I 
have followed people over time in my 
study that does not predict staying 
together but what does predict the 
number one thing that predicts people 
staying together that was going to be my 
number three when you ask number three I 
forgot to get to it is similarity in key 
life values underlying values like the 
importance of Children and Family 
the role of Faith or spirituality in my 
life or the importance of my career and 
work and balance between Career and 
personal 
and you need similarity in those key 
life values in order to predict whether 
or not this is the right person for you 
and then finally number three question 
number three 
is how do you do in terms of handling 
conflict and stress together 
as I said before those couples who 
handle stress and conflict well together 
are more likely to stay together and 
happy over time 
wow I love it so the three points you 
guys if you're taking notes like I am 
trust values and how do we handle 
conflict right that's your measure to 
see if someone is the one notice how she 
didn't say we have sex six times a day 
you might 
good on you 
long-term love is fueled by these things 
a relationship that's based on trust 
that's based on similarity and values 
and what you want out of life and how 
you navigate conflict because remember 
earlier in this chat we Dr Terry said 
the 12 couples out of her 373 in the 
beginning that said they never fought 
they never had conflict 12 for 12 are 
divorced 
exactly bananas and you know people 
Bella always asked me clients and others 
well you know we've been dating for 
three four months we don't have any 
conflict we have never never disagreed 
right so I encourage you to think about 
instead stressful situations 
like when you're going to the airport 
and you and your partner have a flat 
tire how do you and your partner handle 
that when you miss your plane 
when something else stressful happens a 
parent gets sick you get coveted for 
example and both of you have to 
quarantine how do you handle those 
stressful situations because what we 
know studies show is that couples who 
don't handle stress or conflict well now 
don't handle it well later 
so look for those kinds of situations if 
that's your response or comment to we 
don't have conflict or differences look 
for stressful situations and how do you 
handle those together 
um I love that I tell my clients your 
issues when you're dating usually are 
your issues when you're married as well 
so if you're not handling conflict well 
ladies and gents in the first six months 
and somebody's throwing the microwave 
across the room or screeching out of the 
driveway might be a bit of a red flag 
how do we handle conflict can we 
navigate it because you will miss that 
plane somebody will get covered you'll 
both get covered you'll both have 
important meetings and the child is sick 
like how do you navigate do you turn 
towards each other 
and health and support and figure out 
together are you solution oriented or do 
we turn into making the other person the 
victim right and that's super 
destructive and hard to do now 
I had this little question that popped 
into my head as well as I said okay if 
we're not having six sex six times a day 
haha but truly Terry 
how does one 
decide or ascertain am I in lust or am I 
in love 
how do we do that how do we know if it's 
lost or love that's a good question 
right and lust is fueled by sexual 
hormones and sex and arousal and love is 
fueled by support and friendship and 
intimacy as we said 
so I have a Ted Talk on this exact topic 
and what I talk about is first by the 
way you can have both in long-lasting 
relationship you can have less and love 
but let's say we're in a relationship 
and we're dating and we want to know is 
it less stories of love and I think that 
there are four signals that you want to 
look for 
first when we're in love we want the 
people that are important to us to 
connect with our partner and we want our 
partner to connect and like the people 
that are important to us 
so if they were in love we want a 
romantic partner to meet our friends and 
our best friends and we want them to 
spend time with those people and we want 
those people to like those people in our 
life when we're in last we are not so 
interested in that Bella we may not care 
or we may not even think about it 
I love that one cute four signal second 
when we're in love we talk in we terms 
so let's say somebody asks us what did 
you do last weekend Bella and you say 
well we went to the movies we went for a 
walk we went shopping we had a we went 
on a hike outside 
that signals up but if you told me Bella 
well I went to the movies and then I 
went out to dinner and on Saturday I 
went for a hike 
that signals non-love or lust 
so listen to your language because 
that's the second signal the third 
signal is that when we're in love we 
want to share and tell this person 
personal information about ourselves 
sometimes it's information that we 
haven't ever even told anyone else 
so if you feel that urge like you want 
to tell this person deep dark secrets 
about your childhood or about what's 
going on what's is you your best friends 
you want to share and reveal 
that's love and if you again don't 
really want to do that 
don't really want to talk about you and 
the core of you instead you might be 
talking about politics religion Sports 
that's more likely to be lust 
and then final Q or signal number four 
is that when people in are in love 
they're interdependent meaning a change 
in one person creates a change in 
another person and when you're going to 
make a change you want to go to your 
partner and ask them how they feel about 
it so let's say you get a new job in a 
different state 
do you call that partner and say Hey you 
know I have to move to Minnesota right 
what do you think about that feel that 
work 
but if you just accept the job and don't 
even call don't even recognize that that 
person may also change because of your 
move move lust not love 
so we're talking about connectiveness 
we language 
uh uh revealing parts of self and 
interconnectedness equals long not lust 
ladies and gentlemen I mean I'm like you 
know gems are dropping my pen is flying 
here so I can take all these notes to 
put in the show notes for you guys I 
mean this is amazing these are some 
um like like I said the gems the 
diamonds like I hope you listen to this 
again and again because 
Dr orbook knows what she's talking about 
you guys I couldn't I'm as my husband 
will say when we're in such agreement 
with each other like I know it's like he 
calls it violent agreement I'm in 
violent agreement with everything you 
say I don't know why he calls it violent 
but it's like so passionately we're so 
simpatico into it he's like we're in 
violent agreement which is hilarious 
because he's like the least violent 
person 
um you've met so I promised at the 
beginning of this we would come back to 
your new book called secrets to 
surviving your children's love 
relationships tell me tell us a little 
bit I mean I know what it is because 
it's on my desk dog eared but tell 
um tell our dear listeners what is this 
book about and what motivated you to 
write it thank you Bella um and this is 
one of my favorite books because you 
know as a parent we want what's best for 
our children amen I mean it's that 
biological situation that happens when 
we have children we want what's best for 
them and study after study science after 
science shows that happy healthy 
relationships are vital as I said 
essential to our children's health and 
well-being 
but as I talk to parents all across the 
world they didn't know how to start 
conversations with their children about 
healthy relationships skills that are 
important all the things that we've been 
talking about today Bella thank you 
um they didn't know how to start those 
conversations or what to tell their 
children 
so that's why I wrote the book it really 
is for parents who want their children 
to have happy healthy relationships it's 
all about having these meaningful 
important conversations and discussions 
with our children how to start them how 
to do them what to say during those 
conversations and how to model happy 
healthy relationships in front of your 
children because we set the tone 
us even if we're not in a romantic 
relationship we set the tone in all of 
our relationships how we interact and 
behave for how our children will do an 
experience their relationships 
so that's what the book is about and I I 
mean I love it it's my favorite book 
it's amazing 
thank you 
it's amazing and I know what really kind 
of hit me between the eyes it's it's 
exactly what you said in when we 
were talking about how do you know if 
you're really in love with somebody and 
your first answer was do I trust this 
person do we have a trusting 
relationship and you said it's the same 
thing with your child right do you have 
a trusting relationship after I read 
that part of your book I asked my son 
Max who's quirky and he's such a bro and 
like a cool dude 14 year old like 
graduating eighth grade like do you 
trust me and he's like 
I guess like 
you guess okay right well there was that 
one time where you did this right 
because he's that little Grudge holder 
and he remember when you told so and so 
is Mom what I told you I said I've 
apologized for that seven times Max and 
I'll apologize again you're right I 
shouldn't have said that to that Mom 
that was one thing but how about the 99 
999 others and he's like yeah I mean 
besides that I think we're good right so 
it's and I said you know what I trust 
you too 
oh I love that Bella because those are 
the kinds of conversations that we want 
and need to have with our kids I mean 
just sitting down and saying what you 
said to your son is amazing wonderful 
and I love it because it's going to 
build trust it's going to show your son 
that trust is important in a 
relationship that you think it's 
important and by the way as we said it 
is the number one important thing in a 
relationship so having that conversation 
and just going back and forth 
and validating as you did with your son 
yes I realized that was a mistake but 
now I've apologized how can we go 
forward are the conversations that we 
have to have with our kids I have the 
same I mean many people think that the 
relationships with my kids or husband is 
perfect and that's not true no no no I 
am talking about conflict you're and I 
have been married between the two of us 
for 55 years exactly 
long time long time 
many years and so they're always ups and 
downs and we make mistakes even us as 
relationship experts and so I need to 
apologize that's another thing that I 
talk about in the book is how do we as 
parents apologize recognize our mistakes 
because if we want our kids to do that 
not only with us but in their 
relationships it's important to 
understand what is a good apology and 
how do you do good apologies 
yeah how do you do good apologies right 
and and you're right and you say in this 
book also good relationships for your 
children start with you their parent 
right what does that mean I mean I think 
I know what it means but I want to hear 
your intent for what it means well I 
think you know our children 
are are watching so much that's 
happening around them whether it be 
social media whether it be television 
tick tocks you know reading romance 
novels whatever it may be their friends 
parents 
they're being inundated with examples 
and illustrations of relationships some 
of them good and some of them not so 
good 
but as parents we can start now 
regardless of the age of your child 
whether they're young or old or young 
adults we can start now by setting the 
tone as I said about having these great 
conversations which are the 
conversations we really want them to 
have with their romantic Partners as 
well 
but also 
having conflict in front of them and 
resolving it I share the story of my son 
coming into the family room and my 
husband and I were disagreeing about who 
should have the uh the TV 
um oh the remote control thank you I 
even forgot the word control 
thank you and we were going back and 
forth no I would like the remote control 
no I would and my son looked at us I 
think he was 16 and said are you getting 
a divorce 
and I thought at that moment 
we have not had conflict disagreements 
or differences enough in front of him 
and resolved them because when kids grow 
up not seeing conflict the first time 
they have conflict in a relationship 
they think their relationship is in 
trouble 
so if we can set the tone to have those 
differences and agreements not in the 
bedroom not at night than they can hear 
but in front of them and resolve them 
well constructively as you gave examples 
of which were great 
um then we can be good examples role 
models and good relationships can start 
with us and that's just one example but 
all kinds of things we can talk to each 
other with respect 
we can give affirmation if I give 
affirmation to my husband every morning 
and my kids here then they can see oh 
look at his face 
after he got that affirmation 
Bella was so happy when she got the 
coffee in bed in the morning 
I'm recognizing and seeing that that's 
important in terms of relationships and 
happiness so good relationships for your 
children start with you as a parent 
um preach wow I have like Goosebumps 
from head to toe Terry you have been 
incredibly generous with your knowledge 
you're doing work that will impact many 
generations to come with your amazing 
work and I'm so grateful that you were 
here to share your gems with us and I 
know that this will be the first of many 
times you'll hopefully be on the Smart 
dating Academy podcast and lots more fun 
things to come because we just we 
discovered we're neighbors between 
Chicago and and Michigan we are 
neighbors we are both Midwestern gals at 
the moment exactly and I would love to 
come again thank you so much for 
inviting me Bella this has been so much 
fun for me as well 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters I 
am so excited to be with you today with 
truly one of my personal Heroes that um 
I've been following for two years that 
didn't even know me personally till 
about 3 months ago I want to introduce 
to you a an absolute luminary in her 
field Megan Ramos who is gosh she's just 
amazing she's a health and wellness Guru 
and a partner of Dr Jason fongs and an 
author of the recent book called 
intermittent fasting for women Megan 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast hi Baya thank you for having me 
on 
today I'm gonna just read you Megan's 
quick bio so you know why I think she's 
amazing so they've improved my health 
Journey exponentially and I wanted to 
bring Megan on here to drop her best 
gems and her new book is amazing so 
Megan is a clinical educator researcher 
and co-founder with Dr Jason Fong of the 
fasting method after losing 86 pounds 
and reversing her own condition she's 
become a world leading expert on 
therapeutic fasting and low carb diets 
and has guided thousands of people 
worldwide including me to weight loss 
and Better Health Megan tell us your 
story that's amazing 86 pounds give us 
you your journey is so fascinating thank 
you I appreciate it I became really 
interested in medicine at a young age 
but preventative medicine my mom just 
she totally struck out when it came to 
the genetic Lottery and has all these 
genetic 
illnesses and I just watch them never 
really diagnosed her and just treat her 
symptoms and eventually they diagnosed 
her and her life radically changed 
overnight but for like the first 12 
years of my life they were just treating 
her symptoms and she was becoming more 
and more ill and I thought that's not 
what medicine should be medicine should 
be about looking at the person as a 
whole and trying to prevent disease not 
just manage symptoms um so I got really 
fortunate um my father one of his good 
friends friends was a nephologist a 
kidney doctor and the kidney doctor's 
kids wanted to be lawyers and I did not 
want to be a lawyer I wanted to go into 
medicine so they swapped they traded 
kids for a summer and I got to work in 
this incredible Kidney Clinic that 
focused on lifestyle interventions to 
help slow down the progression of kidney 
disease and well they did a ton of 
Pharma studies they Ed a lot of the 
profits from those studies to fund 
lifestyle research that otherwise 
couldn't get funding so this to me as a 
teenager was like the coolest thing in 
the entire so cool so cool um but at the 
same time I started accumulating these 
metabolic Health illnesses even though 
I'd like to say from a young age I 
became very conscientious about my own 
health but I was diagnosed with fatty 
liver when I was 12 and polycystic ovary 
syndrome when I was 14 and I was 
classified as under underweight by the 
BMI oh my gosh with all of that you were 
underweight yeah so you know the doctors 
The Specialist that my parents took me 
to they said it doesn't make sense she's 
not an obese person to have diseases of 
obesity she'll probably just grow out of 
it um it's just like a a health phase 
that my body was going through as part 
of puberty I don't know they gave so 
many bogus excuses now look back um but 
no one was all that concerned our my 
primary care did Express concern about 
my PCOS and told my parents you know you 
guys have money freezer eggs when she's 
20 in case she wants to get pregnant 
that way she can always have surcy as an 
option um and so that was terrifying 
toye old so that just made me even want 
to learn about preventative health care 
even more um and then so you get into it 
and all none of the lifestyle 
interventions were helping any of the 
patients um and in my sort of mid 20s I 
thought like what are you going to do 
with your life are you going to stay in 
the medical field and just watch people 
die because nothing seems to work or 
maybe you should go into law where it's 
kind of cold 
and um but I thought you know regardless 
you've got to get your own health 
together I have this horrible family 
history for all kinds of reasons so take 
some time you know work but focus on 
your own health so I you know these 
metabolic illnesses never went away that 
they never got worse they never got 
better and then I decided to take this 
year and follow the Canadian food 
guideline I'm originally from Toronto uh 
I worked with the most expensive 
dietician in the country I got a 
personal trainer um and all this led me 
to becoming as a type two diabetic and 
gaining a ton of weight out of nowhere 
that I seemingly couldn't use so I went 
from being this thin unhealthy person to 
this visually overweight unhealthy 
person um but around the same time as my 
diagnosis my colleague who's a 
nephologist Dr Jason Fong he's not that 
much older than me and he was going 
through his own questioning career 
choices because he became a doctor to 
help people 
and it was really accidental so you know 
he had started to learn a bit about low 
carb diets but he was out at dinner with 
friends and a friend of his was going 
through a separation and she began 
fasting again for Spiritual reasons to 
help sort of reconnect to her religious 
Roots after the separation and discover 
who she is again and in the process lost 
a bunch of weight and reversed 
pre-diabetes and this is a big life bulb 
moment for Jason because coming from 
chirano We're the most diversity in the 
entire world and like a third of our 
patients would fast for religious 
reasons like Ramadan every year um 
people fast from sunrise to sunset for 
30 days and we would have to have all 
their medications adjusted because their 
blood pressure would improve their blood 
sugar levels would improve during 
Ramadan but then in the month after 
Ramadan they break Ramadan with a big 
feasts at Eid and then within a month 
everybody's more diabetic and has worse 
blood pressure so we'd have to see 
patient so often and as he talked me 
into fasting it wasn't it didn't take 
much convincing because it all made 
sense once I looked at it um and six 
months later I reversed all these 
conditions and lost all this weight and 
one of the reasons why I wanted to write 
this book is growing up as a woman um 
everyone my grandmothers my great aunts 
my aunts my mom their friends would all 
say you know you're just kind of doomed 
as you get older and just accept it like 
you know say goodbye to your 24 in Waist 
when you turn 30 you're just going to 
keep gaining weight and you're going to 
keep gaining medications and 
diagnosises and um enjoy it now well you 
can skinny mini and it's just like it's 
heartbreaking that women think that 
their Futures are just this 
Grim yes devastating and I thought you 
know there's genetic components to it my 
grandmother was diagnosed with diabetes 
albeit around her 80th birthday her son 
my father was diagnosed in his 50s but 
it didn't make sense that I got 
diagnosed at 
27 um so you know when my doctors tried 
to write it off as my genetic Des syy I 
said no no no no no like how come 
everybody else you know gets at least 
twice the amount of time if not three 
times the amount of Health span than I 
do it that doesn't make sense to me 
something something there I might have 
the genetic predisposition for it but if 
I do for my grandmother why didn't she 
get diagnosed until her 80th birthday 
why was I being diagnosed on my 27th 
birthday and this was right after you h 
Ed the most expensive nutritionist in 
Canada and a personal trainer that you 
were then 
subsequently diagnosed with type two is 
that right yeah following all of the 
guidelines just expedited the 
development of the 
disease and you know if we we look at 
the definition of insanity it's doing 
the same thing over and over again and 
expecting different results so our diets 
radically shifted in in human history 
real radically shifted in the late 70s 
and so my grandmother who is born in the 
early 30s you know her diet she had many 
years of good health um until her diet 
changed and then that's when thing 
started to decline and she would say to 
me you know Megan we didn't have food in 
the house all of the time you know we 
you know cookies were for special 
occasions we maybe had a dessert on 
Sunday we had potato chips for long 
weekend events but now then they became 
in the house all of the time and she 
said you know growing up your dad went 
with three meals a day and no snacks and 
if he was being difficult I wouldn't 
even give him an 
apple you know he wasn't eating all of 
the time and she said once we started 
eating all of the time and potato chips 
became a pantry staple and cookies 
became something acceptable every day at 
lunch then we all started to gain weight 
and get sick and then I was born in the 
80s the early 80s and that's just how 
everybody ate and my parents thought it 
was really important to feed me non-stop 
I went to school with literally a pale 
full of food um because you know heaven 
forbid I go five minutes uh I may feel 
hungry um so only knew these horrendous 
dietary guidelines and they've just 
evolved to become more and more 
horrendous and it's really interesting 
to see my younger cousins I'm the oldest 
by far um a bunch of my my aunts and 
uncles waited a real long time to add to 
the Family Pool here and they said you 
know why would we drink things like soda 
and juice like it just made you know our 
grandparents really sick and our parents 
really sick and it made you sick sick so 
like why would we do it you know that's 
Insanity just to you know I don't want 
to be diagnosed with diabetes when I'm 
17 like you were at 
27 um so it's it's really interesting 
just to sort of see their perspectives 
and just watching this and say hey we 
don't we don't need to do that stuff 
because we don't want to live this 
cyclical pattern of just getting more 
sick as we age and so many Wom women 
just think that it's their Destiny to 
become sick and obese as they get older 
and look at you you've changed the lives 
of not only you know thousands and 
thousands of people that have come 
through the clinic and follow you online 
but even in your own family right and 
that must feel so good to you that 
you're basically you're changing 
generational Health within your own 
family not withstanding for the rest of 
us so we love you for that 
it's um it's really cool because now I 
get to go to work every day and I get to 
see people get better come off 
medications um actually right before uh 
I joined our call today I was reading an 
email from a client that was published 
um H her they published her story about 
how at 70 years old she's thriving more 
than she did in her 20s and doing all 
this crazy stuff um that she was too 
tired to do in her 20s um or you know 
struggling with infertility in her 20s 
uh and now she's like climbing all these 
crazy mountains all over the world and 
enjoying this great health span from 
changing things and she you know she 
didn't even get started until her 60s 
working on her health but isn't it so 
cool that she's living her 70s in a 
healthier more adventurous way than most 
20-year-olds today are living I love 
that and can you tell us with her story 
kind of what you think the best things 
are that women can do for themselves to 
I want to be a 70y old hiking mountains 
and healthier than ever I'm never 
nowhere near that but wow that sounds 
like an amazing goal to have what can we 
do starting 
today yeah so a lot of people 
um you know think that Fitness is the be 
all and the end all and well Fitness is 
really important a lot of us just don't 
have the physicality there the health to 
actually do it um so the best thing you 
can do is be mindful of when you eat and 
what you eat um so let's go into that 
when and what you eat that was a big 
sentence y'all for those in the back if 
you didn't hear that there's a lot 
packed in that let's unpack that yes so 
when when you eat is um well both are 
areas of of my professional interest and 
Specialty but when you eat actually has 
a profound impact on the aging process 
uh the more frequently you eat 
throughout the day the more free the 
faster you're going to age um the reason 
why is there's these hormonal responses 
um every time we eat and they're they 
signal the aging process to happen and 
they signal the disease developing 
process to happen and this is why we 
have such a huge epidemic of obesity and 
type 2 diabetes infertility um issues is 
because we've thrown all these hormones 
so out of whack um and we really need to 
go back to sort of the what I call the 
Leave it to Beaver days um you know how 
my grandparents grew up how my you know 
father even grew grew up um and just 
eating those three meals a day I always 
encourage people go back find one of 
those shows somewhere on the internet 
watch an old episode of Leave it to 
Beaver every single episode um he's 
never allowed to snack before dinner and 
he's certainly not allowed to snack 
before bed uh recall how we used to eat 
throughout the majority of human history 
here it wasn't all of the time so by 
minimizing the number of times a day 
we're producing this hormonal response 
in terms of food we're actually really 
able to slow down both the the aging 
process and the metabolic disease 
process so just three meals a day you 
know finishing your dinner enjoying 
things like tea or coffee in the evening 
time is perfectly fine be mindful of 
caffeine of course um I love herbal teas 
in the evening time and you can sit 
around and watch movies and watch TV 
shows that's fine but have the tea not 
the popcorn uh in the evening time so 
being mindful of the number of times a 
day we produce hormones in response to 
food and then be mindful of what we eat 
um process and refined foods are highly 
developed engineered to be very 
addictive and they exacerbate the 
hormonal response that we have that 
accelerates age the aging process and 
the disease veloping process so sticking 
to the perimeter at the grocery store 
you know thinking did these 
FS were these Foods around in the 1930s 
if they were then there's a safe bet 
that you can probably eat most of them 
so you know we want to really eat from 
the land and from the sea as much as 
possible so if it's in a box or a bag or 
sometimes a can you know you can get 
things like can sardines which are fine 
or tuna which is good but you know 
canned spaghetti O's is not a a good 
food choice so um really just trying to 
stick to Foods in their closest form to 
where how they're found in nature and 
using those to cook our meals and 
usually by doing the two combination of 
getting rid of the ultra refined and 
processed foods and um minimizing the 
number of times a day we eat you know we 
can really increase the quality of our 
Health span you know Megan I love 
everything you're saying and I subscribe 
to it completely and I know I grew up in 
a household my parents are immigrants 
from India so there was food laying 
around all the time food is love you can 
snack all day long now we all I I think 
I would be safe to say we live in a 
culture that promotes grazing right and 
for some reason in the in the cultural 
lexicon in the US and maybe even Canada 
it's e a bunch of small meals a bunch of 
times a day and that's going to be good 
for you like where did that come from 
and I think you know my second question 
to that is is people will say okay if 
I'm not eating processed foods is it 
okay for me to continue to eat six seven 
times a day if I'm going to eat an apple 
and some nuts and blah blah blah better 
than processed foods but let's dig into 
this a little bit more yeah absolutely 
so pretty much prior to the L 7s we 
really only ate three times a day yeah 
in human history even before that we 
only really ate twice a day um so that's 
even shifted to three times which is 
fine but in the late 70s um there's this 
terrible terrible um researcher who 
radically changed all of our diets his 
name is anel keys and he came out of 
Minnesota and he did all of this 
research where he just cherry-picked 
data because he beli that dietary fat 
was this huge villain and in 1984 the 
year I was born you know butter was 
blasted across the cover of Time 
Magazine as being this dietary evil food 
um now we've gone back through all of 
his research and we see how manipulated 
it was you know it was not you know 
blinded it was not done without huge 
bias but that was research we used to 
totally transform all of our food 
guidelines so what happened is we went 
from a diet that was relatively high and 
naturally occurring fats and minimal and 
processed and refined sugars to saying 
okay no fats are bad we need to you know 
if we're going to experience satiation 
we're going to have to get there through 
sugar um if a food is naturally high in 
fat it's low in sugar and vice versa so 
that's the option that's what you switch 
to um and his data showed that sugar is 
relatively benign so then we all started 
going on these higher sugar um these 
higher carb lowfat diets but then we 
would start to experience swings in our 
blood sugar levels um because we would 
eat something very sugary our blood 
sugar levels would spike we would 
produce hormone insulin in response 
which would dramatically bring it down 
very quickly and then we would fill 
awful from the huge change our bodies 
really like things to be consistent I'm 
sure many listeners are familiar with 
the term homeostasis you know our body 
likes to keep things constant so these 
swings up and down and up and down they 
made people quote unquote hungry uh 
irritable 
tired um so this is where the notion 
then oh well then you just need to eat a 
lot all of the time several times 
throughout the day to stabilize the 
blood sugar levels but then what we do 
is we stabilize them High all of the 
time we're constantly producing insulin 
trying to bring them down but we're 
eating again forcing the body to produce 
more insulin and then we lead to insulin 
resistance which is the root cause of 
metabolic syndrome type 2 diabetes 
obesity so you can see how this kind of 
snowball you know as we transitioned out 
of the late 70s into you know where we 
are today in terms of your your question 
about eating the good stuff the almonds 
the olives and eating all day all day so 
you produce insulin in response to 
snacking even healthy foods so you 
produce a lot less insulin in response 
to eating something like olives and 
almonds than you do you know eating 
Cheetos and ice cream yeah so you know 
it's a lot less but we also can develop 
insulin resistance so this is where our 
body cells become resistant to our own 
insulin and when that happens this is 
when our blood sugar levels stay high 
when our body starts to rapidly um uh 
build up fat stores and generate more 
fat cells and the sort of the root of 
diabetes PCOS fatty liver disease so we 
don't want to develop insulin resistance 
so we de velop insulin resistance by 
producing High volumes of insulin but we 
also develop insulin resistance by 
producing insulin frequently throughout 
the day it sort of becomes annoying to 
our cells and our cells build up 
resistance to our own insulin even 
though it's at smaller volumes when 
produced The Chronic stimulus of it is 
annoying so there's a couple of 
metaphors I like to use you know if 
you're working at your so so I am I am 
pregnant and I have a baby shower in 
Toronto in a couple of weeks yay and we 
asked all aing guests um to not bring 
gifts because we have to fly back to our 
home in California so every every two 
hours UPS or FedEx knocks on my door and 
it's super like I'm so grateful for all 
the gifts but I at come 10: a.m. I have 
to be mindful of my schedule doing 
interviews like this having certain 
meetings so I have to go sign for all of 
this stuff every two hours so it's only 
a box at a time you know like the Toys R 
Us is not coming in oh I don't think 
there's Toys R Us in this country 
anymore but it's not coming in one 
delivery um but it's a little bit 
throughout the day and at the end of the 
day like I don't want to see my local 
GPS and FedEx guys they're really great 
um but I end up seeing them a whole 
bunch throughout the day so you know 
that constant stimulus of having to go 
and collect one or two boxes every two 
hours is disruptive for my day and now 
I'm developing resistance towards my UPS 
and FedEx guys um so even though you 
know you're not having tons of people 
show like tons of insulin show up at 
your cell's front door banging on it at 
once The Chronic annoyance of it 
develops insulin resistance 
I always joke with people that several 
years ago I developed Adele 
resistance um so the singer Adele um the 
Australian singer you have to live under 
a rock to not know who she is she's one 
like a billion Grammy she's got like the 
most successful 
lingy um so her first album when it came 
out she didn't know this but she was my 
best friend she is my therapist I just 
gotten out of like a 10 year long 
relationship very young so her breakup 
album was my my guy Anthem pretty much 
but then she went she had a lovely song 
got married got divorced she she had a 
lot of life and she came back several 
years later with her her comeback um 
album 25 and I was so excited my best 
friend had put out a new album I got to 
hear her beautiful voice again um but 
then she had this damn song called hello 
that became very popular 
I loved it the first 500 times I heard 
it but the rest of Toronto also loved it 
every waiting room every dressing room 
every 
elevator I got in my car one day and 
this is before Spotify and apple carplay 
um where people listen to the radio and 
she was playing the song Hello on eight 
of my 12 set pre or preset stations and 
I just wanted to scream goodbye I had 
developed a Dell resistance so it wasn't 
like I was trapped in a room with the 
song on repeat but just constantly 
hearing it throughout the day for days 
on end even though it was just being 
played once at a time um I developed the 
Dell resistance then several months goes 
by with everybody moved on so and so 
came out with the the the summer Anthem 
people forgot about Adele's song but 
then it would come back on their radio 
near like award season and it's just 
like okay I like that song now a little 
absence made the heart grow fonder so 
when we're snacking it's kind of like 
we're just forcing ourselves to listen 
to the same song over and over again so 
if you're eating from the time you wake 
up to the time you go to bed your cells 
have heard that song 10 times 12 times 
and eventually you know is going to 
create resistance so we need to be 
mindful of the frequency 
um that were producing these hormones as 
well and the level of annoyance that 
frequency might have on our system yeah 
I love that when my friend Trish 
introduced me to yours and Jason's work 
I read the Obesity code and I remember 
reading in there that it made so much 
sense that it's like becoming resistant 
to antibiotics right it's like at a 
certain point if every time you get a 
cold you're taking antibiotics when you 
really need it your cells are going to 
be like hey I know I know what this is 
all about and it's not going to work and 
so insulin resistance is something 
that's really serious and affects so 
many of us whether we know it or we not 
whether we're to your point skinny fat 
or overweight or have a a host of other 
health issues but it's the root of so 
much stuff and it's not really talked 
about which is why I love the work that 
you and and and Jason are doing now 
let's talk a little bit Megan about 
intermittent fasting you talked about 
yes we had a lot of common sense you 
know sort of rules and you can see it in 
your own family with how you became type 
two diabetic at 27 and maybe your mother 
your grandmother was 54 and the prior 
generation was 70 as our food pyramid 
changed we used to eat three males or 
two males a day what can we do now let's 
say 
you know a listener is listening going 
okay you know I've heard of intermittent 
fasting I'm trying to do two meals a day 
but I'm not getting a lot of movement on 
this I don't eat breakfast I eat lunch I 
eat dinner what what help can you give 
us yeah so a lot of times we've 
developed insulin various levels of 
insulin toxicity in our body from just 
following the food guidelines or and 
indulging 
periodically so you know not snacking is 
a great way to prevent disease or 
maintain good health but what do you do 
if you've already got a little bit of 
metabolic Health impairment well we need 
to really 
exate the the absence makes a heart grow 
fonder you know from our own insulin we 
need to take a diation from our own 
insulin so that way when it's produced 
again um we want to our cells want to 
engage with it they want to utilize it 
so in order to stay healthy not having 
um snacks is a great way to not 
overwhelm ourselves but once ourselves 
are already overwhelmed and annoyed we 
know we need to take a break so it's 
kind of you know like any relationship 
you spend a long period of time with a 
particular individual a little bit of 
space can go a long way in maintaining 
the health of that individual after a 
peri period um so we need to have sort 
of these periods of time where we're not 
producing a whole lot of insulin just 
what our body needs to survive but 
nothing in response to food to allow the 
cells to heal so this is where we get 
into more therapeutic strategies and 
periods of time so a lot of people they 
see these things splashed across the 
tabloids or magazines at the checkout at 
the supermarket or their Pharmacy uh or 
and saying 168 or 186 that's essentially 
where you skit one meal a day and then 
you ideally would only eat two meals a 
day but that's still not enough time to 
heal the broken relationship between 
ourselves and our own insulin so then we 
move into more therapeutic stages of 
fasting where for better period of 6 
months your cells and your insulin 
really need to take some time apart in 
order to to heal their their marriage 
their 
relationship um so we get into more 24 
hours or 36 or 42 hours 48's very common 
protocol and so a lot of listeners might 
be gasping right now it's not something 
you do forever it's something you do for 
a period of time usually about six 
months um depending on how well life 
cooperates for the individual or what 
the specific big goals are if you're 
starting on a lot of insulin and a bunch 
of diabetic medications it could take 
longer if you're just looking to get rid 
of that weight that's around your 
midsection that your doctors will tell 
you is going to end up turning into 
diabetes one day it might not take as 
long because you're not diabetic yet um 
but we do what we call Therapeutic 
fasting so it's a therapeutic treatment 
that you're electing to do to reverse 
your health condition wherever you fall 
on the Continuum of metabolic disease um 
so it sounds like a lot um but you can 
have certain things when you fast uh no 
one's going to take away your morning 
coffee first and foremost um you or tea 
if you're in my shoes you can have your 
tea there's plentiful herbal teas that 
you can consume throughout the day even 
hot or cold um you know I always sneak 
around packs of hibiscus tea um when I 
go out to restaurants and I can make 
something in of icy sparkling water with 
lime juice and people think I'm having a 
cocktail meanwhile I'm being sneaky and 
I'm fasting in the evening uh and I'm 
not having a cocktail but they don't 
know and I'm just having tea so there's 
all these great teas you can have um 
bone broth or a stock of low carve 
vegetable broth too um people in our 
community get really into making fun 
cocktails with like pickle juice it's 
kind of funny um but appreciated in the 
heat so there's these different fluids 
that you can have when you're fasting 
and some of them are very satiating um 
adding a little bit of vinegar to water 
can really suppress your appetite mint 
very appetite suppressing so they help 
you get through the period of time when 
you're fasting but what happens when you 
fast is you start to burn plentiful body 
fats and so your body does have tons of 
fuel to store off of we're a very 
overnourished nation in that sense we 
have quite a lot of excess body fat here 
in North America so we're able to fuel 
off of that so we don't actually feel 
hungry most people think that if they do 
something like a two-day fast like 48 
hours they'll binge eat that's not the 
case because your body has fueled so 
much off of your own food most people 
are surprised at how little they can eat 
mentally they might be able to 
romanticize the world world's biggest 
Feast but physically they just can't 
consume that much um and it's not super 
restrictive on one's lifestyle so 
probably the most popular therapeutic 
fast that we see our community engaging 
with for this you know six month plus or 
minus period is doing 248 hour fasts a 
week and so many of you are probably 
thinking but I cook you know for a 
significant other cook for a child um 
how is this possible but when you're 
doing 248 hour fasts a week you might 
fast from Sunday night to Tuesday night 
you could eat Wednesday fast from 
Wednesday night to Friday night but 
you're really only missing Monday and 
Thursday dinner so it makes it really 
easy to do some prep in advance so we're 
we're actually recording at the start of 
the week and my husband notified me 
yesterday that he's going to be doing a 
couple 48s after an indulgent vacation 
that he had um and he's I'm I'm pregnant 
so I'm actively trying to gain half a 
pound a week he would actively like to 
lose half a pound a week um so last 
night I'm not the best at making dinner 
these days uh even still this far under 
pregnancy I'm pretty nauseous so he's 
been the cook at dinner time um so last 
night at dinner he just made extra so 
tonight when I go to have dinner I just 
need to throw some food in the oven to 
reheat it a bit he doesn't have to worry 
about me I don't have to worry about 
fending for myself in my nauseous State 
um baby can get his protein in and I can 
actually end up eating before he gets 
home so he's not as tempted by the 
smells of the food um so it was just as 
simple as that um and it makes it really 
easy to do meal prep and to organize 
family um throughout the week so that's 
why it's become our most popular 
strategy and then it's really great for 
fat burning as well you know I'll tell 
you what you know it's funny you guys 
say the first rule of the fasting Club 
is never discussed fasting right and so 
it's it's really funny I see that in the 
Facebook group a lot so I don't talk a 
lot about it but I want to share with 
you guys that you know I was on a girls 
trip and my girlfriend said hey I've 
been following the work of Megan and 
Jason you should try this and she said 
you can like she said my first fast was 
36 hours and I literally fell down at 
the campfire going there is no way I 
don't even know if I go 3.6 hours 
without eating a snack and because I'm 
hardcore and I know you guys know me 
you're probably like okay so I decided 
to do it one night on a Sunday I closed 
my eating window Monday at various 
points I thought I would die mentally 
when I got to 24 hours decided to do a 
pelaton ride as well my girlfriend Trish 
is like you're G to be fine keep going 
keep going and I fell asleep that night 
I woke up I'm like oh my gosh I did 36 
hours and I don't feel terrible at all 
to Megan's point I thought my gosh am I 
going to eat an entire massive breakfast 
you know what the irony was I wasn't 
really very hungry but I was so new to 
this that I thought I better eat 
something and I was taking my mom in for 
knee replacement surgery I got her all 
set up I didn't dare tell her my Indian 
mom would have lost her mind she would 
have had to have heart replacement 
instead of her knee replacement if she 
knew that I had done this and I had a 
couple of eggs and I thought oh my gosh 
I feel fine and that led to this huge 
cycle eological barrier to your point 
we've got so much fuel inside of us that 
we can burn it for days or for weeks in 
my case and be totally fine and I've 
been following this protocol for a 
couple of years and really have never 
felt better my clothes fit great I'd 
still like to lose a little bit more and 
I know I'm going to seek your help in 
continuing to work on this but I think 
that you know talk to us a little bit 
about the difference between fasting 
what people consider starving and why 
this will not shoot your metabolism 
because this was one of the very first 
things I thought about so as you 
listener are going oh my God you 
probably have zero metabolism left tell 
us why that's not the case and the 
science we're really fortunate to you 
there's a ton of great randomized 
control trials the gold standard in 
medical research albeit they do have 
their flaws um that goes to show that 
alternate daily fasting is shows no 
clinically significant change in 
metabolic rate and they're always 
comparing fasting to Cal calorie 
restriction these diets that we've 
followed for years that don't work um 
and how each one of these calorie 
restriction diets shows a clinically 
significant reduction in metabolic rate 
so calorie 
restriction in general most of us have 
done it I've done it you might have a 
soup diet a shake diet a this meal plan 
that meal plan count points count 
calories every single one and didn't you 
say that the average person has tried 
126 different diets the 
average woman by the age of 50 um it's 
it's wild it's all the same stuff 
because it's all based on less move more 
eat less um so it's kind of I always 
joke is like going to the toilet paper 
section at Costco you've got the Costco 
brand you've got the kitten brand you 
got the bear brand it's all toilet paper 
at the end of the day sometimes it's two 
ply or three ply but it's still toilet 
paper um so all these diets are the same 
they're just packaged differently we do 
them all expecting different results but 
we never get that result so with calorie 
restriction we do experience some 
symptoms of starvation um so this is how 
it VAR it differs so the last few years 
have been nuts right um with coid and 
lockdowns and changes and a lot of 
people underwent some Financial shifts 
at home uh as a result so you know like 
imagine your household budget was 
reduced by about 
30% um at first you might overspend 
right because 30% is you know it's not a 
little bit it's a significant amount but 
what happens over the course of a few 
months if you don't want to end up in 
tremendous debt is you learn how to 
adapt to a new budget so you start 
cutting costs right maybe you sell a car 
and take public transit maybe you don't 
go to the movies and you get a Netflix 
subscription um maybe you've look at 
what's on sale at the grocery store 
before just buying whatever you feel 
like you want to buy but eventually most 
of us would figure out how to not go 
into debt how to stop going into debt 
and acclimate to our new budget but we 
have to cut costs so when we do calorie 
restriction diets we reduce our caloric 
intake by something like 30% typically 
20 to 30% is what different dietary 
programs promote in order for fat loss 
so if you think of calories like 
metabolic currency dollars um you know 
our body is still spends at first like 
they're getting a 100% of what they 
usually get but they're not so over the 
time you know the body then goes into a 
bit of a survival State because it says 
okay you know we can't constantly 
overspend so this person's losing weight 
and eventually we they're going to 
completely you know waste away so we've 
got to figure out how to cut cost and we 
can live off of 20 30% less calories so 
what do we do is we cut funding for 
reproduction for cardiovascular 
respiratory cognitive wow all these 
different systems and our body literally 
slows down and we feel awful and then we 
are physically starving all of the time 
because our body wants to boost their 
metabolic rate back up so you know we 
feel like we could eat cardboard some 
days and it just becomes too miserable 
for most people they start to feel awful 
and then they haven't lost weight in 
like three four plus months doing the 
same thing but then we go back to these 
diets because well they work for the 
first couple of months um you know one 
particular diet company they've got a 
95% failure rate but they're one of the 
biggest businesses on the entire planet 
talk about a business model right they 
get you hooked and you think you it's 
going to work and then it doesn't work 
but then have to reinvest in doing it 
because you did have those few months of 
success oh my God you're talking about 
me 
so so I I've been there too when you're 
fasting you're not giving your body 
anything 30 calories from a cup of 
coffee is nothing um some water down 
calories from bone broth is nothing so 
you're reducing your caloric intake by 
over 90 95% sometimes even as close to 
100 so your body can't figure out how to 
budget off of nothing so it actually has 
this nervous system response which is is 
cool it activates the production of 
these counterregulatory hormones and 
this is really where fasting differs 
these counter regulatory hormones they 
help us maintain our lean mass which all 
of the data goes to show fasting and 
fasters retain more lean mass in calorie 
restriction groups um so we retain our 
lean mass it helps us burn body fat and 
this neur adrenaline that's produced to 
help us burn body fat and human growth 
hormone they top us up to what we need 
it says okay me Megan wants to spend 
2500 calories to day well Megan's 
definitely got 2500 calories in those 
fat stores because she ate that extra 
Pizza you know that you know really bad 
organic chemistry exam and we're GNA 
fuel off of that we've got all the 
stored energy in our fat cells so it's 
not like my my bank is full my Banks my 
calorie Bank you know when I had to lose 
weight I had millions of dollars in 
there so I had tons to spend so I was 
able to maintain my metabolic rate so 
you know we live in this Society where 
we have quite a bit of excess fuel you 
know I fast even professional athletes 
at lower body fat percentage we do 
compensate for extra calories from fat 
and protein on their eating day just to 
help offset some potential losses but 
most of us in North America that our 
body fat all it is is stored fuel to be 
utilized so it's really difficult for us 
to even get into a state of starvation 
in the first place we're not this 
malnourished Society our Foods 
definitely aren't the most nutrient 
dense and we have some nutrient 
deficiencies that are very common in 
North America things like vitamin D for 
example uh in a lot of places is a huge 
problem um but overall you know we're 
pretty over ner 
so we can't even get into a state of 
starvation as it is and you know when 
you're starving you're being forced to 
forgo food when you're fasting you're 
electively choosing and if you don't 
feel well you can break your fasts I 
can't tell you the number of long fasts 
I sought out to do that ended at 18 
hours or the number of fasts I was only 
going to do for 18 hours but I wasn't 
hungry and went for a couple of days um 
so each cost is going to be different 
but you're in control of it you're in 
the driver's seat uh and you get to pick 
and choose when you start and stop it as 
well I love that and you're such a 
vessel of knowledge and you guys at the 
end of the 
day this is nobody's trying to sell you 
anything with fasting it's easy it's 
Costless and you just make the decision 
to do it and suddenly you start to reap 
these un unbelievable healthy benefits 
and everything that Megan is saying is 
so grounded in logic and Science and her 
own personal experience and is there 
anything else that you want to tell our 
listeners that you know could help them 
obviously besides starting to listen to 
your work Megan has a great podcast this 
book I'm going to put um a link in the 
show notes but any other things that you 
can kind of help us to think about 
things and do things in a better way to 
you know maybe it's lower our stress 
improve our health weight loss like all 
of the things you've already told us so 
much well stress is a big one stress 
undoes everything you do positively with 
your diet or lifestyle so you've got to 
get control on stress I've seen stress 
signal single-handedly destroy the most 
healthy people um even some very 
successful pro athletes too so you've 
got to get that under control it's 
really hard in this day and age and the 
world seems to get weirder inste of more 
normal by the day but you've got to 
prioritize your health busyness just 
will send you to the Grave early um so 
you've got to slow down a bit and focus 
on you um I think also for women too 
you're not doomed postmental pausal 
women can lose weight just as fast as 
effectively as men women going through 
the hormonal changes um you don't have 
to suffer there's a whole lot of great 
things ahead and these years don't have 
to be miserable I'm so looking forward 
to getting older um because I know that 
I can have a a much more beautiful 
healthy experience than I did in my 
teens and 20s um I'm younger woman to 
there's this huge fear of fasting and 
infertility um and they told me at 14 
like that was it and I'm going to be 39 
very soon uh and expecting my first baby 
we did do IVF to bank embryos um a lot 
of people think I struggled with 
infertility that's not the case you know 
we got our embryos I got pregnant my 
first embryo transfer um and we just 
wanted to bank them because of my age um 
and 
you don't make eggs forever regardless 
of how healthy you are so we wanted some 
insurance there but this is something 
they told me at 14 wouldn't be possible 
without surrogacy down the road and well 
here I am hobbling around uh 
California with my my ever growing belly 
so if anything fasting has given me the 
opportunity to be a mom and it's help my 
fertility so don't believe all those 
naysayers that this isn't safe for women 
it's absolutely safe I worked with women 
of all age groups every single day and 
I've only seen it give them back their 
health and their quality of 
life it's definitely given me back mine 
um I can tell you that and just to show 
you let me think I'm going to calculate 
I think right now I'm on a 39-hour fast 
I was fasting in honor of you being on 
our podcast today Meg so I feel great 
clearheaded happy in control and it's 
not just physical you guys do whatever 
it is you can that works for you but 
there's so much mental peace that comes 
with it and there's so much 
psychological strength that comes from 
knowing that you have control right and 
you'll see if you follow this journey 
and I'm happy to you know share more 
about this with you about how I actually 
feel hungrier on days I eat than on the 
days that I fast so there's so much good 
stuff that Megan shares with you in the 
variety of things that she does but 
definitely I would encourage you if this 
conversation has peaked you I'll tell 
you what I've lost 21 pounds over the 
last two years and I'm a small person 
and attribute it to the work that you 
are doing grab her book The Essential 
guide to intermittent fasting for women 
you will not be worse off for it in fact 
you'll only be better and you'll you'll 
be able to do what makes best sense for 
you it might be different than what 
Megan does it might be different than 
what works for me but at the end of the 
day you will 100% have some benefits to 
you I'm so glad I'm so glad you were 
here Megan you're one of my personal 
Heroes that I will always be grateful 
for and have been a real inflection 
point in my life for the positive so 
thank you so so much and I hope that 
someday you will definitely post baby 
come back to the podcast and share your 
newest research and learnings with our 
community thank you absolutely I really 
appreciate it any chance to talk about 
fasting I'm open yay me too I love it so 
thank you again and smart daters if this 
has resonated with you like I'm saying 
join Megan's Community listen to her 
podcast order the book and if this has 
inspired you to say well wow I want to 
get healthy and find the lid to my pot 
follow us on Instagram at Smart dating 
Academy listen to previous episodes of 
this podcast or even better schedule a 
consult with myself or somebody from my 
team and we can really help you get 
started to find the lid to your pot and 
there's nothing like summer love with 
that I'll see you next 
week 


[Music] 
what help can you give us not snacking 
is a great way to prevent disease or 
maintain good health but what do you do 
if you've already got a little bit of 
metabolic Health impairment the absence 
makes a heart grow fonder you know from 
our own insulin so in order to stay 
healthy not having snacks is a great way 
to not overwhelm ourselves but once our 
cells are already overwhelmed and 
annoyed we know we need to take a break 
so it's kind of you know like any 
relationship you spend a long period of 
time with a particular individual a 
little bit of space can go a long way in 
maintaining the health of that 
individual after a period so we need to 
have sort of these periods of time where 
we're not producing a whole lot of 
insulin just what our body needs to 
survive but nothing in response to food 
to allow the cells to heal so this is 
where we get into more therapeutic 
strategies 


Dr Alexander Solomon Alexandra welcome 
hi Bella I'm so glad to be here with you 
you wrote a book called loving bravely 
tell us everything about loving bravely 
what does it mean what do we need to do 
whether we're brand new to dating 
whether we are dating maybe we're in a 
relationship Todd let's talk about 
loving bravely right so loving bravely 
is the what was my first book and it is 
it's a journey into the self it's a 
self-reflective book and it's 
self-reflection in the service of 
creating healthy intimate Partnerships 
though it's a particular kind of you 
know healing Journey that we do to look 
at our relationship to relationships 


[Music] 
this idea of when will it get better 
when will my life be better when will I 
be better and it's neglecting the 
present it's avoiding the present it's 
resisting the present and that's a 
barrier to personal growth it's a 
barrier to growth in general it's a 
barrier to being a functional and 
healthy human being that feels things 
but collectively culturally we hate pain 
we hate it and so people when is it 
going to end what can I do to make it 
better and of course you know who wants 
to feel pain but the reality is 
sometimes especially during an ending 
it's going to be really painful it's 
going to feel like open heart surgery 
and the goal is to work through that 
pain because it's working through that 
pain that you grow when you try to work 
around it and you resist it it persists 
it persists you cling to things to try 
to make it go away is just another way 
of denying what's real which is the 
relationship's over it's excruciating 
it's painful and it's going to take time 
to heal right and you will heal 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I as you know every week I tell 
you I'm so excited because we're going 
to be talking about blah blah blah this 
week again as true to Bella Gandhi I am 
super excited and psychotically 
optimistic to talk to you about dating 
and anxiety two things that typically go 
hand in hand if you have a pulse and 
you've ever been on a date don't tell me 
you haven't had a little bit of anxiety 
or a hell of a lot of anxiety and so 
today I'm bringing you one of my 
partners in crime my colleagues in love 
Eileen Collins so many of you know 
Eileen she's been working with Smart 
dating Academy for over a year and a 
half if you heard the Nazi's 
granddaughter Sylvia foti and the glove 
and the this and that that was Eileen 
the coaster you're going to hear Sugar's 
love story that was Eileen the coacher 
so there's no one better to have on here 
to talk about how to handle dating and 
anxiety because Eileen in her nighttime 
Moonlighting life is also a mental 
health coach so Eileen I am so happy to 
Dive Right into this with you thank you 
for being here I am so excited because 
um first of all I love working with you 
Bella it's not even work it's just fun 
yay and 
anxiety plagues gosh most people at 
different times right I mean everybody 
knows what it nobody says I'm anxious 
and someone near them says what do you 
mean or what is that I don't know I've 
never been anxious are you getting like 
right identified 
so and dating right when people 
especially how many times have you heard 
I'm getting back into dating right and 
I'm so anxious about it it really does 
go hand in hand it's like what we do is 
half of mitigating anxiety helping 
people with anxiety and guys listen 
anxiety is not a bad thing we're wired 
to have some sort of fear if we didn't 
we would have been asleep at the wheel 
when the saber-toothed tiger was coming 
at us right and I think the CEO of Intel 
back in the day Andrew Grove said only 
the paranoids survive in the world right 
so anxiety is meant to keep us on our 
A-game but what we want you to do is not 
have that bad anxiety while you're 
dating that either makes you shut down 
the app and think that you could never 
date because you're too scared of the 
rejection scared of what if they don't 
like me scared of how am I going to exit 
this date if it's not going well so what 
we want to talk about today is those 
types of anxieties and giving you some 
tools some tips some hacks to navigate 
that anxiety and I'll open it up with 
anxiety begins in one place it begins in 
our minds 
so the thing is is this 
we're typically not anxious about 
something currently happening do you 
know what I mean yes currently happening 
could be that you know alarming and we 
typically we spring into action actually 
so anxious us 
is about the future right it's something 
that hasn't happened but that we're 
concerned about maybe we've written a 
story about how it will be or what our 
barriers are going to be 
I was working with one of our clients 
today and 
she had gone back and forth with really 
phenomenal messaging with somebody she 
hasn't met and so I said you know 
let's do a message and and 
suggest a video date let's move this on 
right and she's like oh I'm not ready 
I'm not ready it's the story she was 
telling herself right okay 
but she's with me to get to the date 
and so they've been writing each other 
it's been a week or so maybe a little 
longer lots of message so she was 
telling herself I'm not ready feeling a 
lot of anxiety 
and did you get her to set up the video 
date well we we certainly sent out an 
invitation or several with other people 
she was corresponding with as well yeah 
we and I said 
why do you think you're not ready when 
you're here to you thought when you 
contacted me did our jump start and all 
the things you were ready to date right 
you were ready to meet someone and you 
described him who you'd love to meet 
and this is the predate like we we 
recommend the video chat right 
always 
can get you out of a many a situation 
and into many good ones and can reduce 
anxiety so 
as you know 
anxiety kind of we are we say often in 
the mental health coaching it lives in 
the future 
so one of the ways to kind of combat 
that is to get very purposefully and 
intentionally present 
I love that I love that and how do we 
how do we get into the present that's a 
great quote you know I I would say and 
if you're feeling anxious you're either 
living in the future 
or you're living in the past 
you can't be in this present moment and 
be anxious about this moment so use that 
as a check-in mechanism you guys if 
you're feeling anxious ask yourself am I 
living in my past or am I living in my 
fortune telled future at this point 
because it can't be about the right now 
right 
now how do we stop that well for most 
people are patterns of thinking the 
messages we tell ourselves 
our habits actually that behavior is a 
habit which is good and bad the good 
news is it's a behavior meaning we can 
work with that right we can work with 
that we can bring in some new behaviors 
the hard part is it's like saying I put 
my slippers on the right side of the bed 
for 30 years someone just suggested the 
left how often are you going to go to 
the wrong side 
a lot in the beginning in the beginning 
a lot and then eventually 
less and less 
exactly 
so similar 
someone maybe has a habit of thinking in 
the future fortune telling how it's 
going to be getting pretty anxious 
or maybe plagued with something from the 
past and ruminating so getting present 
can be as simple as intentionally 
noticing your surroundings or sometimes 
we'll suggest stimulating as many senses 
as you can I'll tell people can you walk 
away for a minute can you step outside 
just listen to the sounds of your 
outside 
smell what it smells like look around 
notice as much as you can and in that 
minute 
you can reset 
and get present and that's how you get 
present stimulate as many of your senses 
as you can maybe you're listening to 
this and you're driving right now what 
could you do you could really be 
listening to this podcast word for word 
you could open your window you could 
feel the wind on your face you could 
feel the sunlight in your eyes you can 
feel the grip of the road you can look 
at the sign you've just passed with new 
eyes maybe you've looked at it a 
thousand times and you're like wow I 
didn't realize that that font was red on 
there but really stimulating all of your 
senses to get in this moment it's like 
you're forcing your brain into what is 
happening around me right freaking now 
have you ever noticed 
back when we played sports right or 
maybe even recently like you played ping 
pong or pickleball or tennis or whatever 
you are really present you're in that 
game right I mean and especially if 
you're competitive and I think I am not 
necessarily good but competitive for 
sure like I want to win and so you can't 
think of anything else you're not in the 
future you're not you're right in it 
right 100 that's another way to get 
present we'll say to people can you get 
active get out of your head 
into your body 
take the long walk run on the treadmill 
do the elliptic you know take a class 
whatever 
and that's a great anxiety reducer too 
um I if I think working out for me is as 
much for my mental health as it is for 
my physical health because once you 
really get your heart pumping and you've 
got those beta endorphins it's like 
you're pushing good mood through you 
right like you can't kind of be in a 
sour dour mood because you've just 
filled yourself up with good chemicals 
through working out and which calm you 
and may put you in a more positive 
mindset there's a lot of reasons it 
happens 
the endorphins there's a lot of physical 
things happening 
and we know you know through like 
triangle breathing or Square breathing 
that you know scientifically someone can 
bring down like their central nervous 
system from like really rapid possible 
just bring it down a little bit 
similarly like walking getting in your 
body besides the physical benefit 
mentally for most people if they're 
taking in their surroundings and maybe 
pushing themselves a little bit 
they'll get present they'll just be very 
present about what they're trying to do 
exactly I love that and you know I know 
we jumped ahead a little bit with this 
but this is a really tactical thing 
Eileen just brought up about the story 
of her coaching a client today in the 
client saying I'm not ready with the 
message and she's like okay well let's 
do a video date doing video dates is one 
of the greatest things that has come out 
of coven covid sucked it's horrible 
but the fact that every site and every 
app built vindi video into its interface 
so often we have imagined anxiety based 
on our past what if this person is super 
boring what if I can't escape this state 
it's been three hours I'm having a 
terrible time what if this person 
doesn't look like their photos what if 
and all the what ifs again were 
projecting into the future based on 
something bad that might have happened 
in the past right so what you can do 
with video is put all those fears to 
rest say hey before we meet out for a 
date how would you like to meet for a 
cup of coffee and let's just do a quick 
video date or a glass of wine whatever 
your jam put boundaries around it five 
to five thirty okay so you don't feel 
pressured and anxious about how you're 
gonna end that video date half an hour 
can be on the high side right you might 
know enough in 50 10 minutes to go this 
is amazing or hoof you know what that 
person's photos were 20 years 50 pounds 
and 20 teeth ago not sure not sure this 
is my jam right okay and no harm no foul 
you didn't drive anywhere you probably 
you know 
100 they don't know your last name if 
you haven't given it to them you can end 
the date whenever you want by pressing 
end right you don't have to meet someone 
in a neighborhood you're not familiar 
with right and the stakes are lower yeah 
we consider this like our natural 
screening in a way we're hoping that 
everybody's great and we're screening in 
but it can be like almost a to us a 
mandatory step don't you think it should 
be a mandatory step so not only will 
this help to mitigate your anxiety of 
what if it's not a great day but now 
what if it is a good date and suddenly 
you're going to be like oh my gosh we 
had such a fun video chat I'm excited to 
meet this person out for pizza next 
Thursday now what have you done that 
cute little step of the video date has 
not only 
assuaged all of your you know maybe 
insane fears of what this person might 
show up to be and and you're like wow 
that was actually fun and cool and oh my 
gosh I can do this and that video date 
helps you to build that connection and 
lower your anxiety so it's win win 
it's wonderful it's such a great idea I 
think both sides the other thing that we 
don't realize is the other side may have 
anxiety often does about it too every 
everybody's hoping the same thing here's 
the good news 
everybody's hoping it's good 
everyone involved is hoping it goes well 
so there's that 
the story you tell yourself right 
I always tell people 
we do so much self-messaging we can be a 
judge a little judge's robe or we can be 
a cheerleader but we're typically one or 
the other and so have you ever heard 
somebody say 
um 
I will be happy this could be me I'll be 
happy when I lose 15 pounds that's a way 
you could say something 
but it's almost like saying I won't be 
happy until I lose you know and with me 
that 15 pounds is gonna be a slow thing 
that could be years who wants to plan 
not to be happy but that kind of 
messaging in a way 
we'd love to shift that right totally to 
just like yeah I'm really doing some 
work I'm working on losing that 15 doing 
some stuff 
but I'll be happy in the process because 
right now yeah because frankly most of 
life isn't about the end goal being 
achieved right it's like if you climb up 
a mountain it's not that moment that's 
going to be everything in your memory 
it's going to be all the steps on that 
perilous Journey that got you there that 
are going to make you go oh my gosh I 
did it and that was so amazing and it's 
always about the journey so 
um Bella Gandhi can make people enjoy a 
perilous Journey 
you were like a perilous journey and I'm 
like oh my God she's right but it's 
right it is the journey right 
life it's all about the journey right 
and what makes up our memories right 
it's like at the end of our life it's we 
have our memories right and the memories 
are about the journey to getting to the 
place where we were where we are at that 
moment so I think that 
um you know I I love 
getting out of our own heads and looking 
at am I being a judge or am I being a 
cheerleader for myself and cheerlead 
yourself and just say it's okay to be a 
little nervous but you know what I think 
I'm actually just excited about this I'm 
excited to go out and here's a hack that 
just came to me because during Eileen 
and I we of course prepped for you guys 
and prepped for this podcast but this 
one just came to mind years ago I had a 
client who said I but I I like and she's 
a senior vice president at a very big 
real estate company high up super 
successful Alpha but when it comes to 
dating lots of anxiety and she'd had 
some trauma in the past and so I said to 
her I said I'm gonna give you a way to 
look at this when you get to a date I 
want you to think tell yourself that 
you're going to meet your best friend's 
new boyfriend 
and she was like 
oh my God keep talking I said when you 
get to the date just think about your 
best friend's name is Anne Jane and now 
Ann Jane has this new boyfriend named 
Mark and you're gonna go in and you're 
just excited because Mark's gonna be in 
your life and he's your best friend's 
boyfriend and you just want to get to 
know him he's not a threat he already 
likes you because he knows you're the 
best friend and so that little hack 
change the way that she dated she's like 
oh my God my best friend's new boyfriend 
that's how she went into every date and 
she would tell herself that and it 
totally relaxed her from putting that 
Spotlight on herself am I good enough am 
I going to be a good enough dater is he 
gonna like me am I gonna like him how am 
I going to get out of this if I don't 
instead when you say I'm going to meet 
my best friend's new boyfriend you 
suddenly are excited Bella you kind of 
said the magic words in a way 
the focus on ourselves right it I tell 
clients all the time 
if you can turn the camera around right 
and focus it outward 
I had a friend tell me once 
with great intentions it changed my life 
I think I was talking about being 
anxious about something and she said 
listen 
you're only the star of your own movie 
and she was right she was right people 
are worried about themselves they're not 
laser focused on you 
turning the camera 
around from the focus on yourself 
coming and looking with curiosity about 
the other person 
that's just a gift right that's of 
course you're going to be anxious if 
you're just kind of spotlights on me 
exactly and then you've got the judges 
robon and you're looking at yourself 
going hey don't up this up oh that 
wasn't cool that you said that instead 
here's another easy hack to think about 
and these are easy check-ins if you are 
feeling anxious and nervous while you're 
sitting in the presence of someone else 
you've put that camera back on your own 
face and in the date I want you to turn 
that camera around to the person sitting 
across from you your goal for this date 
is twofold okay if you experience dating 
anxiety you just tell yourself I'm going 
to have fun by making my date feel good 
in my presence 
now how do you make somebody feel good 
in your presence like Eileen said you 
get curious about them you are sincerely 
from your pinky toe all the way up to 
your baby hairs interested in this 
person what makes them tick what is 
their story how did they get to this 
spot right and when you are genuinely 
curious genuinely wanting this person to 
feel accepted by you feel good in your 
presence you will be sincerely curious 
about them almost like a journalist 
you're going to want to know everything 
and you know what if you are feeling 
nervous about yourself 
you're not fully invested in the other 
person you are not you cannot do two 
things at the same time you cannot be 
anxious about your own performance if 
you are truly invested in the person on 
the other side of the table 
exactly Bella 
we just talked about this right before 
but 
what type of listening do you recommend 
this is my little hack to myself 
I have a little Post-it on my computer 
and it says listen to understand 
it is a very different way you guys of 
listening and it cues me when I read 
listen to understand most of us listen 
half-heartedly 
we listen to speak over somebody we 
listen to respond 
instead when you go into listening to 
understand mode you will never cut 
somebody off 
in fact you will be when I tell myself 
Bella listen to understand all of a 
sudden it puts me into this I want to 
know you like no no you I want to 
understand your why I want to understand 
what your intentions are with every 
statement you make I want to drill more 
into that because I want to understand 
you and it makes me a better 
conversationalist because if I 
understand you better I'm gonna be a 
better day to you because I can ask you 
questions that light you up like a 
chandelier that are relevant that are 
different than what anybody else is 
going to ask you because most of those 
people not like us smart daters are 
listening to respond but when you listen 
to understand it's like 
[Music] 
Bella that's everything and at the worst 
you will have made a special connection 
a very special connection maybe they're 
the love of your life maybe not but this 
piece of advice can change the way you 
interact with people and the way they 
feel in your presence 
period 
the man is about listening to respond 
often we're doing it not if I have it 
but because 
we're anxious because we want the other 
person to like us and the joke is 
they will 
if you let them feel your curiosity and 
your connection 
that's so true and people they say one 
of the most seductive things you can do 
is truly listen to somebody because most 
of us aren't truly listened to by 
anybody right and when when you have 
someone that's giving you that wrapped 
attention what's better than that where 
they say you know love them or hate him 
when people will always say if you're 
talking to Bill Clinton he will make you 
feel like you were the only person in 
the room because he is laser focused on 
you and listening to understand you it's 
not eye contact who doesn't everybody 
has good eye contact but why is he 
really well known for that because he 
puts his attention straight on to you 
and you can feel that and that is what 
you too dear listener can do and you 
don't have to wait until you're on a 
date to do this maybe you can call your 
best friend tonight and just experiment 
with listening to understand it's like 
wow how did you feel when your mom said 
that to you 
I love it all of your relationships 
can be that deep we get every 
conversation 
doesn't have to be a deep dive but 
listening like that is still a game 
changer right listening really listening 
and 
being able to kind of be yourself right 
show up authentically 
interested I don't typically talk myself 
into being interested I actually am 
curious 
you are very curious you're such a great 
conversationalist right because you 
always want to know more about the 
person 
a little Mrs Kravitz from Bewitched you 
know like the nosy neighbor and me I'm 
definitely curious 
which is why coaching was a good fit 
and curiosity is everything and again 
when you're genuinely curious what can 
you not be you cannot be anxious at the 
same time 
right and and gosh I wish I knew this 
stuff when I was back in the dating 
world and you can use the stuff you guys 
even when you're making a new friend 
girls when you're going to meet a new 
potential girlfriend out for a brunch 
you're walking into your kids school 
meetings if you're going to a job 
interview these are all wonderful things 
if you number one expect acceptance you 
will be accepted I want you to I want to 
tell you about this Mantra I use it I 
have talked to my husband Andy about it 
when he's nervous I was telling Eileen 
my girlfriend Anna Valencia is running 
for Secretary of State and we had this 
conversation five years ago and she's 
like well I'm walking into this room and 
these people are all older than me and 
they're more experienced and they're you 
know Big Time politicians I said sweet 
girl I want you to expect acceptance in 
every room you walk into for the rest of 
your life 
and she's like I walk in with my head 
high every single time and pause to 
yourself before you walk into a room and 
say expect acceptance and it will change 
the way you feel in that moment my 
husband does it he says it's changed his 
game he's in venture capital and he's 
meeting people all the time but when you 
expect acceptance 
it automatically means I can't be 
anxious about whether you like me or not 
because I already am assuming best 
intentions you are going to accept me 
exactly best intention thinking biggest 
game changer by it by the way it helps 
avoid fights that are just simply 
misunderstandings and no not at all 
necessary best intention thinking 
expecting acceptance 
just the best advice at all I think for 
dating it just puts you in a mindset 
where people are drawn to that right 
100 
and you know if you 
if you think about all the things we're 
saying they might sound common sense but 
I promise you take notes look at the 
show notes the things that we're telling 
you to do if you start to implement them 
in your life they will change your life 
they will change the way you date they 
will change the way you interact with 
yourself and therefore the way you 
interact with other people and and now 
we can get into brass tax okay we've 
given you a lot of Mind hacks right turn 
the mirror outwards you're not focused 
on yourself you're focused on the other 
person having fun expect acceptance 
assume best intentions right get 
yourself moving get yourself into a 
positive frame of mind now okay I'll 
tell you one of the things that we do 
all the time at Smart dating Academy is 
we help our clients get prepared for 
dates just like you would get prepared 
for a job interview 
would you ever walk into a job interview 
cold let's say you've you know been at 
the same job for 15 years or five years 
right you wouldn't just expect to walk 
in and wing it you'd be like wow I 
better freshen up and look at my resume 
and know that for every bullet point on 
there I need to have a good story that 
tells a good story from the beginning 
the middle and the end wow and I know in 
all job interviews they're going to ask 
me what's your greatest strength what's 
your greatest weakness why did you leave 
your job you're not going to walk in if 
you have any common sense at all trying 
to Wing that stuff right because that 
stuff doesn't work so on a date do the 
same things prepare for the date even if 
it's the video date think about the most 
common questions people ask and if you 
guys need to go back to the episode I 
did with Danielle robay that talks about 
dating questions to ask think about 
where did you grow up how many siblings 
do you have are you close to your family 
what do you do for work where do you 
want to be in five years or ten years 
what are your the best podcasts you're 
listening to what are your hobbies right 
the basic questions be prepared know how 
to talk about yourself in an interesting 
way and be prepared for someone to say 
what are you looking for 
absolutely what are you looking for why 
are you here prepare for these questions 
prepare for the harder questions like 
wow 
why did you get divorced 
why have you never been married okay 
let's just go there people bless their 
hearts we'll ask those questions not 
trying to be offensive again go back to 
what Eileen taught me today assume best 
intentions thinking that person is not 
asking you a question to be obnoxious or 
to put you on the spot they genuinely 
don't know why have you never been 
married they want to know they're 
assuming you're an amazing person and 
that's a choice that you've made right 
and they want you yeah they want you to 
to say something that that reassures 
them that they're right you are amazing 
oh good right yeah they wanted a good 
answer have a good answer and a genuine 
sincere answer for that right and this 
is the stuff that we work on all the 
time in date coaching right we are in 
the weeds like Eileen says we're in your 
inboxes we're helping you to message 
helping you to take it to video dates if 
you need help you've got both of us here 
to support you we're here don't think 
you have to suffer through this is alone 
dating can be fun and it can be less 
anxiety provoking so many people like oh 
my God I didn't know I could actually do 
this and work with you of course you can 
reach out anytime there is always a way 
to be better and to have more fun doing 
something right and to be more 
successful so prepare for your date if 
you need a session where you can mock 
date we'll do that with you we'll help 
you to role play and tell you yeah that 
answer sounded good or oof I think your 
body language in that is not being 
authentic I don't think you're coming 
across the way you want to but get 
prepared role play with a friend hire 
someone to do this who's going to be 
objective get yourself feeling really 
good because preparation leads to what 
lower anxiety because you're feeling 
confident because you're like been there 
done that anything that we do 
repetitively are we anxious at it no 
because we know how to do this and 
we get better we get better and better 
at it 
amen right practice practice and 
practice practice doing the video date 
practice with a friend if you've been 
out of the dating world for a while ask 
them how do I look on video how's my 
audio does my background look like that 
does it look clean does it look 
organized or do I look like a hoarder 
right what what do I look like we might 
have been having conversations about 
orders before this podcast today so take 
take a look at your background have 
somebody who's going to give you an 
objective feedback say you know what 
that looks really warm and inviting and 
like it matches your Vibe have someone 
give you that feedback to build your 
confidence and when your confidence is 
high what is that the reciprocal of 
anxiety 
that's just the best advice honestly 
it's true it's true we're here your 
friends are here get your tribe you know 
Circle the tribe and 
build up your confidence practice you 
know do some role playing so that you 
can and be prepared as Bella said 
they're going to ask those questions you 
might as well have acted like you've 
thought about it and have they answered 
that you feel the best about 
exactly exactly and you can even prepare 
and lower your anxiety by having five 
questions in your back pocket that 
you're going to ask if the conversation 
gets to that weird pregnant pause we're 
like I don't have anything to say I 
always call those having jump start 
questions it's like jump starting your 
car with jumper cables right when the 
car doesn't start you've got the jumper 
cables in the back have your jumper 
cable questions with you so that you're 
not afraid of what's going to happen if 
the conversation Falls flat because you 
are prepared these are all the little 
hacks that will help you with lowering 
your dating anxiety right you're 
expecting acceptance you're going out to 
meet your best friend's new boyfriend or 
girlfriend you've got three jump start 
questions in your back pocket in case 
the conversation goes flat you know 
you're going to be accepted how can this 
date go bad it can't you're in the 
driver's seat the day can go bad because 
that person might have red flagged 
themselves that person might not be who 
you expect okay that's fine but from 
your own anxiety standpoint you've done 
everything you can to prepare 
and it is just that how can we enjoy the 
dating process is by combating the 
anxiety it's happening typically well 
before any date 
and so that we want you to just enjoy 
the process not just meet someone 
amazing which we also want and we want 
you to be able to show up as your 
amazing self 
100 and so 
let me tell you you might be listening 
to this and you might be saying well you 
don't know me I'm shy 
I'm an introvert I don't know what to 
say I'm just anxious I don't like being 
the only person in a room that doesn't 
know someone I don't want to go to new 
parties but I'm going to tell you 
shyness and introversion is no excuse 
for not being able 
to do these things that we're talking 
about sometimes we conveniently can hide 
behind those labels I'm shy I'm an 
introvert let me tell you what making 
dating conversation having small talk 
that is a muscle nobody's born with that 
muscle some of us exercise that muscle 
more than others and we get used to it 
like Eileen was saying instead of 
putting your slippers on the left side 
of the bed you're going to put your 
right slippers on the right side of the 
bed you're going to start to build that 
muscle and one of the best ways you guys 
to start building that muscle if you 
call yourself shy or an introvert or 
you're not good at Small Talk guess what 
it is exposure therapy okay start making 
small talk talk to the cashier at the 
grocery store talk to the person sitting 
next to you on the bus or the plane 
start making conversation with the 
person behind you in the grocery line 
it's like oh my gosh you have three 
different kinds of mustard you must love 
mustard right just funny easy things 
because the more you do these little 
things the less you're going to say I'm 
shy I don't know what to say I can't 
make small talk because I want you to 
practice that muscle 
I love that you said the I don't know 
what to say 
because it brings us all the way back to 
be curious about them turn the lens on 
them 
you'll learn what to say because if 
you're truly curious about them you 
would be asking about that whole mustard 
situation 
100 
and 
one of the ways to not lower your dating 
anxiety I don't know if that was just a 
double negative you guys don't drink too 
much on these dates okay I have seen 
many a story I've started Smart dating 
Academy 13 years ago right and I know 
what happens when we might feel anxious 
and that first glass of wine goes down 
really fast because maybe we're thirsty 
and maybe we're not that hydrated and 
maybe we're a little nervous right and 
then we order that second glass and then 
that second glass is before you even 
have ordered dinner right and then maybe 
we get into the third and then we start 
to get a little sloppy the way to handle 
anxiety is not medicating it with 
alcohol and drinking too much because 
then you know what you're gonna do 
you're gonna potentially red flag 
yourself you're gonna say stuff that's 
not appropriate for the first second or 
third date and worst of all you're not 
going to remember exactly what that 
person said 
and you may make them question things 
right like oh that was a I would not 
want someone to think 
like that was a lot of wine on a first 
date because it's a first date right 
yeah 
100 and you don't want to be that girl 
or that guy I have had clients when they 
will say on a two-hour date so and so 
date had seven drinks they're like is 
that weird I'm like that's really weird 
right even having seven pellegrinos or 
seven Diet Cokes is still a little weird 
pace yourself right would you do it on a 
job interview if the answer is no don't 
do it on a date 
especially First Dates especially first 
and second you know beginning dates 
and if you're having dating anxiety okay 
let's say you've done that video date 
okay now you're going to do an in-person 
date instead of agreeing to meet for a 
four hour date put boundaries around it 
if somebody's like would you want to 
meet for dinner just say oh Thursday 
dinner gosh I've got plans already at 
eight o'clock but how about we meet for 
a drink and an appetizer from six to 
seven thirty right now you've 
automatically done what put boundaries 
around it what is that going to do to 
your anxiety lower it because in 90 
minutes you can duck out and even if the 
date's going really well an hour and 45 
minutes later you leave that person 
wanting more saying oh I don't want to 
leave this is so much fun can we do this 
again soon perfect so good yes yeah 
Eileen do you have any last parting 
words of wisdom for our listener 
I think you did you it was great I think 
I hope 
I think so too 
I think we we've emptied our brains on 
you guys today about dating anxiety and 
remember we gave you a lot of 
information if you even do two to three 
of these things you're going to lower 
your anxiety because ultimately guys I 
will tell you what we want for you at 
Smart dating Academy besides finding the 
lid to your pot you know what we want 
you to do we want you to have fun along 
the way and what we've told you is going 
to help you to do just that to have more 
fun to be a more fun date and to get 
better dates and to be more successful 
at this so until next week I wish you 
happiness success and a whole cup full 
of lower anxiety 


[Music] 
this is just a lesson to women who are 
like I don't want to get big I want to 
be toned I go what is toned there is no 
such thing as toned you get toned by 
building muscle muscle metabolic Spanx 
it holds everything in tighter it boosts 
your metabolism it's a sponge that gives 
sugar a place to land that's not on your 
belly right and it it's an enderin organ 
that's really powerful in in making sure 
that you're great a balancing your 
hormones it helps you go weight train 
you're going to have better testosterone 
levels like it's everything and so if 
you your whole life have been afraid to 
lift weights cuz you're afraid to get 
big get over it cuz in 40 years of 
working with men and women helping them 
with their diet and exercise I have 
never seen someone get big lifting 
weights I've seen someone get big eating 
you know Ultra proc sitting on the 
couch 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart daters welcome back to the podcast 
this week I think it's time for you 
to get to your happy place and so I 
didn't have to dig deep to find my 
favorite happiness expert my friend 
Stephanie who is the happiness coach 
Stephanie L Stephanie LeFevre she's 
amazing we met I don't know a decade ago 
and she is the embodiment of happiness 
and she's going to share her gems with 
us today dear listener about how we can 
get to our happiest happy place starting 
today are you ready let's welcome Steph 
Stephanie welcome thank you thank you 
happiness and dating not usually very 
synonymous together right but but let's 
get people there for sure oh my gosh 
well you know tell us how did you get 
into the happiness business 
oh that's funny question because nobody 
becomes a happiness coach by having like 
a perfectly happy journey in the in life 
right absolutely you had to learn how to 
find your happiness 
yeah I mean 
it's interesting I mean I was growing up 
in Chicago one of five kids 
um not in a happy childhood my parents 
fought a lot my dad drank a lot 
um my dad left my mom for another woman 
when I was young 
and that shattered us you know wow 
um 
it was it was hard and then my sister 
died in a drunk driving accident even 
hard 
so when you're young and you experience 
that type of trauma and tragedy in your 
life 
you really don't have a lot of Hope for 
your future right I mean I thought I'm 
broken 
um I'm I'm worthless like nothing good 
is ever gonna last in my life so yeah it 
was a long road up that happiness 
mountain right 
um I mean I didn't even know what 
happiness looked like I didn't know we 
were you know this is in the 70s and 80s 
there's not a lot of like grief 
counseling and there's nothing we just 
like went throw some dirty right with 
the an amazing Community supporting us 
but 
and my wonderful mom doing everything 
she could to get it through it but you 
know I look back now and I think God 
that's a lot and all of us had to find 
our way out of grief and tragedy and 
into a level of normalcy and up to a 
level of joy and happiness it's not a 
fast climb right it's a it's a steep and 
a hard climb up there but luckily in in 
college I started getting really into 
personal development it's what saved my 
life you know reading everything from 
Wayne Dyer and Deepak Chopra and Pema 
showdron and Marion Williamson her book 
of Return To Love and Oprah thank God 
for Oprah right I got to watch every 
Oprah and um all my children episode 
like the two of those things in my life 
and thank God I just my mind started 
getting open to forgiveness to Joy to 
ways to use my inner world to create in 
my outer world because my inner world at 
one point was creating a lot of sadness 
and my my plan was just to be like my 
dad and drink and throw my life away 
right because I didn't see anything 
other than that 
um so through diving deep into my 
personal growth and making it like a 
full-time job I started to see that my 
inner world can change that I'm in 
control of it and that I can start 
creating that in my outer world and now 
for the last 30 years this is the the 
journey I've been on right to constant 
Improvement to constantly reshaping and 
consciously creating a life that I love 
and 
in my relationship creating a 
relationship that I'm wildly excited 
about and that I'm really happy with 
creating the health and fitness that I 
desire creating a career that I'm really 
crazy about creating Financial Freedom 
creating everything from the inside out 
has always been my journey and what I 
now love to teach and share 
oh my gosh well let's imbibe all of the 
gems that you have I mean you know I'm 
sure you can imagine what it's like to 
be 20 30 40 50 60 70 and single maybe 
career single you know maybe coming out 
of divorce maybe you've lost the love of 
your life or maybe you're in a 
relationship and you just want to boost 
your happiness or your joy tell us you 
have something called a formula to 
create a new reality and you're talking 
about changing your world on your inside 
so let's start with that what is our 
first step 
so the formula to create a new reality 
and I have a lot of my clients are 
struggling with 
um self-worth self-doubt with 
um not having what they want in life at 
its Basics right so if it's not having a 
relationship that what they want a lot 
of my clients are divorced and single 
um or if it's another area of their life 
what I notice most women are doing 
is that we put our actions first right 
like I was doing this a long time ago 
before 
um I got married I wanted to lose weight 
and so I was like trying all these 
different diets I was like the Atkins 
diet back then and I was doing the 
Atkins diet and I was like doing these 
VO2 Maxes and I was trying these 
different things and I was never losing 
weight well that's before I knew about 
the formula to create a new reality that 
I developed by using all this work 
and that formula doesn't start with 
action it starts with our state 
it starts with how we feel every day 
so the formula is S Plus S Plus f equals 
R because that's simple and you can 
remember it that way wait S Plus S Plus 
s like Stephanie Stephanie Stephanie 
equals Richard yes so yeah exactly so S 
Plus S Plus s equals R so the first f is 
your state how you feel is the most 
important thing 
and we'll talk a little more about that 
but the second s is your story how you 
think 
what your thoughts are what your mindset 
is that's what you're attracting in 
so the third s is your strategy that's 
the action because you can't not take 
action along the road of the dreams that 
you want to create that equals your 
reality 
so if you have a reality that you don't 
like in any way you can't keep trying to 
just change the action you've got to 
start with your state you have to start 
with how you feel every day so what does 
that look like I mean how we wake up in 
the morning and how we feel really 
really matters right if my reality isn't 
what I want it to be I'm going to look 
at how I feel every morning okay my 
morning routine dialed in to be 
something that brings me joy we don't 
have to follow these morning routines 
that like all these men dictate are the 
best thing to do you know 5am Club and 
wake up and do 20 minutes of this and 
20. we should do things that bring us 
joy 
right the best learning routine is doing 
stuff that you love right and taking 
some time for yourself so that you do 
things that you love so that you feel 
good right so I would include in your 
morning 
going big I call it Big begin in 
gratitude 
because gratitude is an energy it's a 
state gratitude is a massive State 
shifter right so you can't be in 
like distress and upset and gratitude at 
the same time you can't stay possible 
right so what am I grateful for first 
thing in the morning before I even open 
my eyes I think about all the things I'm 
grateful for right that primes me like 
I'm more ready for the day right 
anything that you do in the morning if 
you you know do something healthy for 
yourself and and have a green juice or 
or lemon water or you know your coffee 
and a little bit of a little meditation 
um if you're setting intentions if 
you're doing some journaling if you're 
picturing your day unfolding in a 
positive way staying off of your phone 
off of the news you know off of reacting 
to everyone else's emails and texts and 
whatever and you're doing something for 
yourself you're filling yourself up well 
you're going to be better ready to 
handle the challenges that come your way 
right you're approaching things a dating 
website or a you know anything that 
you're doing with a different energy 
when you feel good first so the first s 
is your state for that reason 
the second is your story it's your 
mindset 
we place orders from the universe with 
our thoughts right our thoughts place 
the order and our feelings attractive 
back in so our state say that again our 
thoughts our thoughts place an energetic 
order and our feelings attracted back in 
right so our thoughts and our feelings 
have to be aligned with what we want 
and if our thoughts are going well this 
is never going to work and this is a 
pain in the ass well that's placing a 
confusing order right oh I really want 
to be with the man of my dreams but oh 
God these dating sites they just suck I 
just can't get it I I can't do this oh 
wait you just talked about every one of 
my clients right there that thought okay 
let's go with that let's create hey I 
wake up in the morning and I'm like oh I 
really want the lid to my pot the man's 
my dreams I hate dating dating sucks I 
hate these apps there's no good men out 
there right well let's talk about the 
things that we have to stop doing in 
order to stop creating confusing orders 
okay because those are creating 
confusing orders to the universe and 
fuzzy targets don't get hit right if 
every time we're thinking thoughts a lot 
of them are not aligned with what we 
want we have to change those thoughts 
first so number one 
and No One's Gonna want to hear this but 
we have to stop complaining 
because complaints create an order they 
place an order to the universe for more 
of what you don't want 
and I know it sounds harsh to think I 
would need to stop complaining but we 
all complain We complain We complain 
about the heat We complain about the day 
we complain about that you know we 
complain whether we are not consciously 
complaining about We complain about 
dating apps right I'm I'm not even 
single and I complain about my friend 
who's undating it I go oh God the guys 
that I found on there so we need to stop 
doing that because all it is is 
perpetuating more of what we don't want 
and you know the the more that you focus 
on something the more you're going to 
see it so if you complain about aiding 
apps all you're going to see are bad 
experiences on dating apps amen amen 
sister so we need to stop complaining 
um one tool that I use Bella to stop 
complaining when I teach all of my 
clients what we do first thing in any of 
my programs is we we're a complaint free 
bracelet 
so I have them put on a bracelet that 
they love and one one on their right 
wrist and see if they can go an entire 
day without a complaint and if you 
complain you move it over to your left 
wrist it's all about awareness right 
because if we never talk about 
complaining and have awareness about 
complaining we'll go oh I'm not really a 
complainer and then we're like oh my God 
my friend the other day we just go right 
into it so the awareness around 
retraining our brain not to complain 
needs a physical thing so you wear the 
bracelet you put it over to your left 
wrist when you make a complaint so that 
you're retraining this dog in your brain 
right and the next morning you start 
with it on the on the right wrist again 
and you see if you can go a day two days 
three days I love that it's a really 
powerful practice so 
put that in your toolbox and try a 
complaint free bracelet so we have to 
stop complaining the next thing we have 
to do is we have to stop focusing on 
lack we have to stop Evan Bella focusing 
on reality that's around us like I don't 
care if the reality is that I keep 
meeting guys that aren't available I 
can't focus on that unless I want more 
of it 
right so we have to stop focusing on 
reality and only focus on our desire 
as if a 
psychic came down and said oh he's 
coming he's on his way that's me it's 
gonna happen and you you're like he's 
coming he's on his way it's happening so 
you cancel all the thoughts of lack you 
go I don't care if there's only one of 
me and not enough of that no you cancel 
all those thoughts like when I was 
um when I was pregnant 
with my son and I was a older mom 38 and 
40 when I had my kids and people would 
tell me what they would want to tell me 
all the miserable stories of Labor and 
Delivery I would go no I heard none of 
it I only focused on natural easy 
childbirth and that's what I had natural 
relatively pain-free incredible 
incredibly powerful labor and delivery 
wow I've never let the reality of how 
old I was or what other people would 
have set into my existence I wouldn't 
so I know it sounds impossible but it's 
not impossible you have to stop focusing 
on lack even if that is your reality you 
have to stop focusing on the reality of 
what you don't want because that's 
placing a confusing order 
you have to stop looking for and seeing 
what you don't want and I'm sure you go 
through dating apps and you go oh God 
that's awful oh he's awful oh he's awful 
he's awful no you've got to stop 
focusing on what you don't want and 
focus on what you do want so what I do 
want is a guy who's available what I do 
want is a guy with those eyes that's 
nice oh I do want a guy that's that tall 
oh I do want a guy that lives there okay 
oh I do want I do want I do want you 
have to focus on what you do want not 
what you don't so meaning if you're 
swiping on the app stuff I love what 
you're saying that every person that 
comes across your screen you have to 
find something in that person where you 
might go oh this is not a person for me 
you have to find something that you do 
like about that person did I get that 
right because I kind of love that be 
more empowering 100 yeah I would like 
that I would like that and if not send 
them love and bless them oh you know 
he's really cute he's he's a perfect fit 
for someone oh he's got really nice eyes 
right why not come from love instead of 
fear right and and send that love and 
find the do want there is something that 
you want right in every person on the 
app I'm gonna tell my client says tell 
me something about every one of these 
people yeah that's good that yep yeah 
yeah that is a redeeming quality that 
someone would want that is a positive 
we can't expect to get positives while 
focusing only on negatives 
and yet that's all we do is like 
negative negative negative negative I 
don't blame them I get it I've seen the 
apps I've been there but with a 
different energy 
when your state is in the right place 
and you're really careful about the 
orders you're placing you can do it 
differently 
you can have a different experience 
I love that so a couple other things 
that plays confusing orders so we've got 
complaining focusing on lack 
um focusing on what you don't want 
instead of do what 
the next thing is conflicting beliefs 
you know when we're thinking 
I don't believe it's gonna happen for me 
that places a confusing order 
right that's self-doubt 
like how can I expect to 
win the prize or you know do something 
amazing in my life if I don't believe in 
myself 
belief is a huge piece we we create from 
our thoughts from our words from our 
feelings and from our beliefs 
and so we have to believe that it can 
happen for us 
so I teach my clients we talk about 
belief a lot because we have to build 
our belief 
to the level that we can attract in what 
we believe like you and I if we didn't 
believe that we could ever start our own 
business we would have never done it 
we were right around disbelieving and 
never taking action right 
belief can lead to action and action can 
lead to belief but we have to believe it 
so what can we do to build our belief in 
ourselves for me I believe in myself 
when I'm feeling my most confident 
and I'm feeling my most confident when I 
am fueling my health and fitness 
when I'm doing what I say I'm gonna do 
you know keeping my word with myself 
when I'm challenging myself right like 
when I am on that treadmill and I'm 
doing a hard ass workout I got up in the 
morning I I had my morning ritual I'm 
doing all these things to fuel my my 
state and my story and I'm on that 
treadmill and I'm working hard you can't 
tell me that that there's something I 
can't do I'm like I can I will watch me 
get out the way I got this right because 
I'm in that state of belief because I've 
showed up for myself and I'm doing 
things that I really feel good about and 
feel confident about 
like I don't believe in myself when I 
don't have confidence so what do you do 
to build confidence right 
that's underlying for your belief 
and I think it's our work that's our 
work is this the belief work 
and how do you how do you define what 
your beliefs might be that are holding 
you back 
great question I mean for me it's there 
are some roots of limiting beliefs you 
know there's a lot of branches of 
beliefs like the beliefs that 
there's no good guys out there 
um I'm too old I'm never gonna meet 
anyone those are all the branches of the 
tree right then there are Roots there 
are a few roots of limiting beliefs that 
everyone has 
one of them is I'm not enough 
one is I'm not worthy of this 
and one is I am unlovable 
so if we work on we can work on all the 
branches of the trees because guess what 
I'm too old well there's a million 
stories about people older than me who 
have found love you know there's not 
enough guys out there well turn to your 
neighbor because she met someone right 
so all of those we can prove as untrue 
that like those are untrue there is 
actually a lot of guys out there there 
I'm not too old there is someone that 
totally would suit me you know 
um they are there are men that are 
available 
so look at the turnaround for the that 
it's not true and that there's an 
equally as true belief out there that's 
how you you know turn a belief around to 
a powerful positive belief and then 
there's those root beliefs like I'm not 
enough well there's nothing outside of 
us that can tell us that we are enough 
there's nothing outside of us that can 
tell us we're worthy or tell us that we 
are lovable we have to do the inner work 
to find that 
I have to decide so here's one of the 
last things that I think that gets in 
the way is that we haven't decided 
we have to decide I am lovable I am 
worthy I am enough and it's my time 
period I am doing this because I decided 
and for no other reason you've probably 
seen this Bella when someone makes a 
decision and they go I am now meeting 
this person I am falling in love and 
this is it then that's when it happens 
right 
totally 100 percent and they make a 
decision and then their belief Rises up 
to that decision 
you know so true and remember guys 
beliefs 
we hold them to be true beliefs her 
opinions yeah they're not facts it's not 
a fact that's not true you can find 
evidence against every one of these 
beliefs I'm not enough 
really right do you think I don't suffer 
from this I do I'm sure you do too right 
I'll think oh I haven't done enough of 
this I haven't created enough you know 
new workshops in 2023 because I've been 
so busy I haven't done enough I'm not 
enough and you think about it and so 
many of those branches come back to that 
and you know what that is if I asked 
five other people do you believe that 
I'm not enough do you believe and people 
would probably be like 
what are you talking about just like I 
would if you said to me Bella I don't 
believe I've done enough I'd be like 
what are you talking about you've 
created this Kick-Ass life These are 
right just imposters little Evil Minions 
that live in your brain yeah 
yeah they're total Gremlins and they're 
not true and so we can turn it around 
and found the more powerful positive 
thought I am enough 
um I am willing to see myself as enough 
is a great stepping stone I'm willing to 
see my worth I'm willing to see that I'm 
lovable I'm willing to see is a great 
on-ramp to the enoughness and the 
lovable and the worthiness and 
it is equally as true and more powerful 
and positive and what you can do is say 
okay let me give three examples of how 
I'm enough 
I'm enough for 
blank you know I'm enough for my job and 
I show up for everybody there I'm enough 
for my sister I'm the greatest sister 
that's ever been I'm enough for my mom I 
take care of her in her older age like 
where are you actually enough because 
you're proving it to yourself right so 
if I think I'm unlovable where am I 
actually lovable let me prove to myself 
how lovable I am that's how you start 
turning around those limiting beliefs 
and there's there's a lot we do a lot of 
limiting belief work on my courses we 
it's a constant 
process right because I can go oh okay 
I'm enough now but then I can have 
another sneaky belief about 
my body or about my parenting or about 
the next level that I can take my 
business so limiting belief work is 
always the inner work that we're doing 
right finding raising up our beliefs to 
the level 
of what we want to create in our life 
and so I love so many things that you've 
said if you're not where you are where 
you want to be somehow your thoughts are 
creating confusing orders to the 
universe because those thoughts create 
feelings when you don't have the right 
feelings you're not going to bring in 
the right energy or attract the right 
things am I saying that right a hundred 
percent yep they don't have the right 
feelings you're not aligned with your 
desire 
your Fields align you with your desire 
and Attract it back in it's all a 
vibration so if you're not having the 
right thoughts in person right orders 
and you're not having the right feelings 
and you're wondering why you're not 
getting what you want you're not aligned 
with your desire oh that's just sad and 
Powerful start over with your state and 
your story and then your strategy and 
guess what when your state is aligned 
and you're feeling good and your story 
is aligned and your thoughts are good 
right they're placing good orders then 
the strategy that you take works 
so even if a strategy that you've taken 
before that didn't work it will now work 
when you're aligned right so oh I don't 
want to go back on the dating apps well 
when your state is in the right place 
and your story is in the right place go 
on the dating apps because it's aligned 
and it's in the right vibration and it 
will attract in what you want before you 
were placing confusing orders and taking 
action that wasn't aligned so of course 
it didn't work 
right no that makes perfect sense and 
you guys if you didn't get this gem I'm 
going to repeat it again the roots of 
all limiting beliefs I'm not enough I'm 
not worthy of this and I'm lovable and 
holy smokes we have to decide nobody can 
decide for you there is no mountain 
you're going to climb nobody that's 
going to come and tap you on the head 
and say you know what Bella you've 
arrived I have to decide right I am 
these things and that's when it will 
happen guys just because you find the 
lid to your pot still doesn't solve that 
I'm not lovable wound inside of you 
until you say to yourself and you decide 
hell I don't care what my family of 
origin story is I don't care how many 
bad relationships I've been in I am 
lovable that's your first step is to 
believe that because nobody else can 
make you believe that not even per 
friggin charming and look at the energy 
and the power in that right even you 
saying it like we're both smiling and 
we're both like yes like people can hear 
and feel the confidence in that 
yeah that's really powerful you guys 
have the steering wheels to this I mean 
how if you haven't crashed your car yet 
while driving I don't know if you're 
truly absorbing this because the key to 
the kingdom y'all is in your hands yes 
look at your hands the key's there do 
you see it what color is your key what 
shape is your key because it's there 
100 percent 
oh my gosh so what what have we missed 
have I missed anything 
well we can talk about my favorite thing 
in the world to talk about is 
manifesting and although everything that 
we've been talking about is in essence 
manifesting 
I have four steps to advance manifesting 
that I guarantee you your dear listeners 
have never heard oh girl I want to hear 
it 
look at me taking notes here while she's 
talking okay me Chris is gonna rock your 
world and we'll have to check back after 
you hear this and apply it into your 
life Bella oh so yes I've been teaching 
manifesting literally for 30 years 
because the minute I heard it I started 
applying it into my life and started 
teaching it to people and you know the 
basics of manifesting is ask believe 
receive right so that's what we were 
talking about like ask for what you want 
get clear on it believe it and then 
receive it in well people know that 
that's the basics of manifesting and it 
still eludes us because it's not as 
concrete as we'd like it to be so in my 
exploration I found these four discover 
these four steps like looking back and 
going okay how did I manifest that how 
did I manifest that I was like this is 
what I did this is what I did this is 
what I did in this and here they are 
so it's different than ask believe 
received step one how I manifest 
anything is to focus on the end result 
of how I want to feel 
so if I am trying to manifest a 
relationship 
I want to look at how that feels to be 
in love 
right how does it feel am I happy am I 
peaceful am I fulfilled am I feeling 
connected am I feeling Bliss Joy what am 
I feeling Comfort relief safety I don't 
know why I want to feel safety security 
um you know so how do I want to feel 
what is that feeling it doesn't have to 
be one thing it's all of it combined the 
end result of how I want to feel because 
I might just not want to feel 
um excited that might not be the end 
result right the end result means the 
bigger overarching feeling 
how do I want to feel what's the end 
result of how I want to feel that's step 
one 
step two 
is ask the universe 
for guidance how to get there 
so you have to ask the ask is not for 
the thing the ask is for you to be shown 
the way 
so then you go okay this is what I want 
this is how I want to feel show me 
show me 
let the path become revealed and now you 
got to stay open to all the ways that 
the Universe shows you right to all the 
guidance to all the Whispers to all the 
god Winks whatever you want to call them 
and step three is you take inspired 
action on the universe's nudges 
so when someone says you should get on 
that new dating app you're like okay 
that's the third time I've heard that I 
have to take action don't take action on 
the third time take action on the first 
time when someone goes hey I've got 
someone to set you up with 
okay 
that's guidance right hey you should do 
this hey you should do that hey someone 
popped into my DMs okay I'm gonna follow 
this guidance and look at everything as 
guidance because there's no bad guidance 
right it's like it either is or it isn't 
and everything is a baby step towards 
the thing the end result of how you want 
to feel 
so focus on the end result of how you 
want to feel ask the universe for 
guidance 
take inspiration inspired action right 
away when you get it 
and step four is 
be okay no matter what 
find Joy along your journey be grateful 
in the now 
that's the piece that most people are 
missing when it comes to manifesting 
because they miss the fourth step of 
Detachment of being happy and being 
grateful right here right now with all 
that you already have yeah oh you 
already have loved we already have 
companionship we already have connection 
right we already have safety but we're 
thinking we're without it 
I can still want more of it and I can 
ask her how to get there and I can take 
inspired action but sitting in the 
beingness of it 
is what really attracts it in and we 
find it a lot faster when we detach 
through being okay no matter what and 
being in the present and being joyful 
and being grateful 
that's what we're after anyway so 
finding it now 
is the key to more of it 
um I love that and I think you're right 
I think people get stuck with 
manifesting well if I think it it's 
supposed to fall into my lap no two key 
things you have to take action 
um 
you have to take the actions right and 
then and then be okay with where you are 
and look at it as a journey so often you 
know I think about the big things I've 
done in my life right you think that you 
arrive at that thing and suddenly 
there's a ticker tape parade or the ball 
drop and you're like okay I just hit 
that goal whatever that is I ran the 
race I hit the sales Mark I did this 
show and then you're like 
there's no parade there's no Orchestra 
there's no dancing girls and when you 
think about it it wasn't that moment but 
it was all the little moments that led 
up to it that you remember in your mind 
it was the journey yeah exactly 
and we think about when we're dating 
when we're younger that's exactly what 
we're doing we're like oh maybe it's 
that guy oh okay that's fun oh I liked 
him oh he didn't like me back okay no 
big deal all right oh there's this other 
guy over here okay he's kind of fun this 
is a good that's what we're doing we're 
okay no matter what because we're like 
oh we're young the pressure's off it's 
you know this is part of it so why not 
apply that no matter what age we are the 
being okay no matter what is part of the 
energy that allows it and attracts it in 
it's the art of allowing 
it's how we get it 
yeah I think so I think you know therapy 
is great but I think what you're doing 
is so forward-looking right it's like 
yeah you know what there's some swampy 
stuff we all have the swampy stuff you 
have yours I have mine but let's move 
forward into what we do once let's 
forgive the past and move it to the 
Future 
absolutely keep beating the drum of the 
past if you want more of the past right 
beat the drum of the future if you want 
the future be in the present moment of 
what you want and of the already having 
of it 
that's what really attracts it in 
I love that Steph you're a wealth of 
knowledge I feel happier just by having 
done this podcast me too it was so fun 
I'm gonna put on a bracelet and see if I 
can have a complaint free day can I be 
accountable for you yes please do you 
have to report to me let me know how it 
goes wow that's gonna be that's gonna be 
I have to I can see myself going well 
what exactly is a complaint if I'm just 
venting is that a complaint hey hey if 
you're thinking about it you're placing 
orders for it so you determine what's a 
complaint and if your vents are going to 
place an order that you don't want then 
we need to turn that around right so my 
office that doesn't have air 
conditioning right now is actually a 
very cool lovely Zone and yeah it feels 
so good in here and so I'm placing 
orders to have you're flushing your 
system it's good to release and to sweat 
and to be hot and you know it's great to 
feel the contrast 
see all the positives exactly oh my gosh 
well Steph thank you so much for being 
here where can we can we follow you on 
Instagram can we check out your site if 
we want more happy tools yeah coach with 
Steph on Instagram and that's my website 
and it's coach with Steph is with two f 
s t f f and yeah follow me on Instagram 
come find me uh have a happy habit 
checklist that's a great tool to help 
your state in the morning 
um it has 10 happy habits that you can 
look at and go oh I want to apply these 
few that works for me I'm already doing 
that one take a look at the happy habits 
checklists on my website or on the bio 
in my Instagram and I'd love to connect 
with you guys so follow me there oh I'm 
so excited thank you so much for your 
wisdom I really appreciate you this was 
great at this thank you for having me it 
was awesome 
smart daters as always if this has 
inspired you to get to your happy dating 
place and you're stuck and you're 
feeling like you're in the swamp of 
dating reach out for help for goodness 
sakes we're here 
smartdatingacademy.com we are the 
personal trainers to your love lives we 
will get you to that happy place because 
we make dating a three-letter word f-u-n 
fun and who doesn't need some fun in 
their lives so go to 
smartdatingacademy.com follow us on 
Instagram at smartdating Academy get on 
our waitlist for our VIP one-on-one 
coaching and I guarantee it's the best 
decision you'll ever make because as 
Steph said you are worthy of this you 
are enough and for God's sakes you are 
lovable AF with that I will see you next 
week 


[Music] 
i love love i love helping people i love 
helping people find love and most of all 
what i love 
are stories 
and i love 
the love stories of people that have 
found love like today's amazing guest my 
client sugar who 
found love sugar tell us about your 
journey in 
life and love and dating i was married 
for almost 10 years it was a very 
painful divorce you know it took me 
about 
eight years to finally 
put myself out there finally even think 
that i was ready but then i started 
researching you and i found your ted 
talk you mentioned the two questions you 
ask your client two lists like what do 
you want to be happy and what you 
actually need to be happy you know i 
realize i need to find someone that that 
i need 
to be 
happy you 


how to communicate with men so that we 
feel heard and understood as women and 
how to balance our lives and come back 
to 
alignment so that we can give and 
receive love today's guest is sandy 
weiner she's the founder of last first 
date she's a dating coach she's a 
relationship coach what do you think are 
some of the biggest mistakes that we 
make coming out of the gate as women men 
at this stage in life and we're talking 
about as they as they get older and 
they're less ego driven they don't want 
to just do all the chasing and they 
don't want women to be really passive i 
advocate for women to make first moves 
in online dating 
not to necessarily ask men out unless 
that's their jam 
let men know they want to get off 
messaging and get on a call and meet 
because if we don't assert what we want 
we will not get what we want this isn't 
about chasing right dating is not a game 
so show that you would be a good partner 


in honor of independence day is how to 
become and seem more independent not 
just on your dates but also for those of 
you that are in relationships because 
independence 
is sexy it's that person if you close 
your eyes and you think about somebody 
who's independent right you think about 
somebody who 
just has it going on has their own life 
and they're just comfortable and 
confident in their skin right they could 
be in love and be happy but they're also 
just as happy with themselves when 
they're not what i want to teach you how 
to do in this episode today is not be so 
needy or conversely become your most 
independent self so that you are more 
confident you're happier in your life 
and you come off as more attractive and 
more sexy whether it be to a brand new 
date to somebody who you're on a fifth 
date with or somebody you've been in a 
relationship with for six months or six 
years or six decades 


i'm so happy to have my friend 
danielle robay join us today danielle's 
got her new podcast called pretty smart 
but she's also become an entrepreneur 
and this product that she's developed is 
so near and dear to my heart because i 
love questions and meaningful 
conversations so she's developed it's a 
card deck that's filled with questions 
for conversations one of the things with 
my card deck that i thought was 
interesting is that there was a harvard 
business review study published by uh 
alison wood and leslie k and it's called 
the surprising power of questions and 
they cite that the most common complaint 
people make after having a conversation 
such as a first date or a work meeting 
or an interview is i wish so and so had 
asked me more questions 
doing this like preparing answers to 
questions made her a heck of a lot more 
interesting 
at dinners 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find l 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters I 
have an episode today that's going to 
knock your socks off okay so um I have 
with me my new friend Dr Nay this is Dr 
naen Macaluso and I'm going to have her 
tell you her whole story but Dr Nay was 
married to The Wolf of Wall Street 
Jordan bort and is here to tell her 
amazing story of surviving thriving and 
what she's doing today and she's going 
to tell us all the things you want to 
know about trauma bonds about picking 
the same Partners over and over again Dr 
Nay welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast 
thank you I'm so excited to be here yes 
it's hard to date 
today girl say it again for the people 
in the back it is hard to date today and 
um well can you just start out and I'm 
going to give you the floor tell us your 
story you know some people might have 
seen the movie many people might not 
have I think most people are familiar 
with the moniker but just you know sure 
tell us your tale yeah so it um so I 
grew up in Brooklyn New York and I was 
raised in the 70s which was a great time 
to be a child I do say that no internet 
no phone right and I was raised with a 
very psychologically oriented mother and 
she was reading Sigman Freud and car 
young then and we would always talk 
about our feelings and it was a very 
open household and so I was very Charmed 
childhood and um but she was a single 
mother and just you and her and my 
brother and my brother so yeah so so my 
dad was in and out of my life you know 
not abusive but like what would would 
call a Disneyland dad you know literally 
come take us to Disneyland but let her 
do all the heavy work right he was the 
fun guy he was the fun guy and so um 
being raised by a single mom I was 
really on my own financially since I 
graduated high school at 17 and I went 
away to college for a year was not for 
me at that point in my life and so I 
started to model because I needed money 
you know I lived in Brooklyn and New 
York City and Brooklyn are very 
expensive and so I started to model and 
as the movie The Wolf of Wall Street 
Wall Street to piic I went to a party 
and that night changed my life 
forever and 
tell us about the party like what 
happened a party this was a capital p a 
r t y y y this was a party and I was 22 
I was with my boyfriend and I go into 
this big Grand you know beautiful White 
House contemporary house on dun Road in 
Westampton Beach and I walk in and I 
felt weird I was like what's happening 
at this party now I didn't know that all 
on 
Quaaludes I didn't even know what a 
qualude was of course at 22 I mean I had 
no I mean wine was good enough for me at 
that point wine and beer and so it was a 
strange feeling and somebody like the 
movie shows actually did expose 
themselves to me so I left 
IM his pants and I and I felt so 
embarrassed and so much shame you know 
it's interesting how victims feel that 
you know even though the other people 
that the perpetrators don't and I said 
to my boyfriend we got to get out of 
here I I just I felt terrible so we left 
and but I guess my ex-husband had seen 
me and I guess I seemed like an object 
that he wanted to have because that's 
the way these people 
are and then he pursued me and um you 
know he was married at the time but he 
pursued me about 6 months later you know 
telling me that typical he he's 
separated he has an 
apartment and he actually paid somebody 
$5,000 initially to take us to dinner 
tell us about this like what the hell oh 
like first of all who does that Jordan 
Belfor but tell us how that happened 
yeah so this woman kept calling me 
calling me calling me and I said why is 
this woman calling me so finally that 
was when we had answering machines you 
know they had to leave the message and 
so I was like hi what do you want she's 
like oh um want to go to dinner and I 
thought okay it's a little strange but 
and she said that guy Jordan Bel for's 
going to go and I said what's he coming 
for and she said what do you care I said 
I don't care just think it's weird isn't 
he married so but on bounc to me they 
had set the whole thing up and so I was 
sitting at dinner with her and he comes 
sauntering out with his cowboy boots out 
of his white tester Roa and sits down I 
have no idea that I'm set up I'm from 
Brooklyn he's from Queens and I'm just 
ch in with him we got along 
brilliantly then the next day he drove 
that night he drove me home and I was 
like hm maybe he does like me and then 
the next day as the movie shows I had 
like 12200 square feet of flowers in an 
800t apartment what did you think at 
that moment were you like what yeah I 
was like my friends I was actually 
having a birthday party for my 
girlfriend that day and all my friends 
over they were like come on you didn't 
sleep with him I said sleep with them 
I barely know him he just drove me home 
and then I really didn't see him for six 
months cuz I had just some my milite 
commercial and I had gone to I was going 
to Chicago actually to model oh where 
were you I don't know where I was but I 
remember driving through Wisconsin and 
there was a lot of cheese 
Farms I don't remember exactly but I 
love Chicago it was beautiful city and 
then when I came back that Christmas was 
when we saw each other at the gym and 
that's when we officially started to get 
together yeah so it was an interesting 
beginning so okay you get 1,200 square 
feet of flowers and now are you like 
okay game over or you're married or how 
did you say no like what happened 
between then and six months later you 
know that I really wasn't I mean this 
sounds weird to say I really wasn't 
impressed because I didn't like him I 
already I think I who know I was was 
saying like three other guys who even 
knows who I was dating at that point um 
and he was married so I just didn't even 
think about it right so I just was like 
all right this guy's a little nutty you 
know and then I went on my way he went 
on his way and I was so robbed up in 
trying to make money and you know really 
pursue my career it's a very challenging 
career to have you know and yeah and so 
I was you know I was really based on my 
survival not really thinking that much 
about him and then 6 months later when 
we went on that first date that time 
then it was game 
on okay so you guys meet on the 
elliptical I'm kidding you run into each 
other basically at the gym gym yeah it 
it was the vertical Club it was 
legendary in New York oh that's awesome 
and so he's like hey didn't I send you a 
helicopter full of flowers do you want 
to have lunch tomorrow and you're like 
sure yeah I think he called me a lot 
after I sent he sent me the flowers but 
I blew them off and then somebody said 
to me you know he's separated you should 
go out with him I was like all right 
I'll go out with anybody once I mean how 
bad could it 
be famous last words Famous Last Words 
yep okay so now you're 22 years old 
you're modeling you're trying to make 
two ends me at this point and you go out 
on your first date like what happened 
and then take us through on our first 
date we really again got along very well 
I think he was surprised I was 
smart um because he kept mentioning that 
and again I was I was from Brooklyn he 
was from Queens so I think we had like 
um like a very similar background which 
I think was very unifying 
and we just really had a great time you 
know it was that simple we just really 
had a great time and we really like 
quickly like a trauma Bond starts you 
know just became obsessed with each 
other right right from the beginning and 
there was a lot of love 
bombing and you know gifts and you know 
when one one day he sent his driver to 
my house with $155,000 in cash I was 
like what am I going to do with this 
and he was like go spend it I literally 
could not even spend it I bought my 
mother's stereo I was like there's you 
know you have to remember that was a lot 
of money because let's say that's 
probably like 
$50,000 now right because this was I 
don't even know what year it was 
1989 wow that was a ton of money that 
was like more than two years of college 
tuition by the way I'd like that money 
now if anybody wants to give it to me 
hey Jordan Drive do a drive by later 
tonight yeah so and so there was just so 
much sweeping me off my feet and fancy 
dinners and you know he extricated 
himself from his marriage and we were 
engaged in six months so fast and 
furious like a trauma Bond and married 
six months 
later because that's what he wanted 
that's what he wanted right and you 
became the object of his affection and 
Obsession and I'm sure and that's a 
really 
intoxicating feeling especially for a 
22y old who's trying to make ends meet 
yeah and especially for you know yeah I 
always say this to my patients you know 
you have to remember nobody was talking 
about narcissism and Trauma bonds and 
love bombing this was so not even nobody 
was talking about it it wasn't even in 
the vernacular like in the zist nothing 
nothing so I I you know based upon all 
those Disney movies and pretty woman and 
all pretty woman that's right I was like 
oh my go my prince has come right this 
is what this is what's supposed to 
happen he's going to pull up in the 
white limo and I'm gonna be in my 
leather mini skirt on the fire skap in 
the back and that's and that's what we 
thought I'm so with you I thought that 
we all thought the more the better we 
were sold 
Disney your prince we were sold all that 
and so that was really the story The the 
myth of romantic love that we were 
fed right we should be swept off our 
feet there should be grandiose gestures 
because this is Prince Charming and I 
like to say what happens when you get 
swept off your feet you land on your 
back looking up like what the hell just 
happened right that's great great way to 
say it 
100% And so so now you're 
engaged yeah get married is anything in 
your gut saying anything right now in 
retrospect oh yeah yeah you know this is 
the hard thing is that all of this 
romance is going on and all this Um 
passion and 
intimacy is going on simultaneously 
while the coercive control was starting 
and that's why it's so confusing because 
the two things were going on at once and 
we call that you know intermittent 
reinforcement I didn't know that back 
then but um what was happening is he 
started the dominating behavior of if 
you don't marry if you don't marry me 
I'm not going to date you if you don't 
have kids I'm not going to marry you and 
so all the threats started which I was 
very upset about initially but I could 
never set boundaries with him or fight 
him and so and then I just like oh he 
just loves me so much but my gut I did a 
video about this when he gave when he 
asked me to get married we got engaged 
my gut said uh 
oh wow 
unbelievable talk about something you 
just made casual reference to and I know 
this is seminal in your work and for all 
of us talk about trauma bonds and 
intermittent 
reinforcement yes yes so so intermittent 
reinforcement is actually what creates 
the the emotional connection in the 
trauma bonds ironically because it's 
when your partner is about 70% of the 
time they're cruel controlling 
dominating intimidating threatening and 
then 30% of the time they're generous 
and helpful and kind and so and they're 
both extreme behaviors that cause 
extreme feelings in US 
that actually create the bond that is 
the trauma Bond that's what creates it 
and I write about this in my book that 
there's research with um animal trainers 
who use intermittent reinforcement with 
their animals the animals Bond 230% more 
than trainers that use straight 
kindness so we know it makes people 
Bond now you wouldn't think it but it 
just it does because you never know 
what's coming it's not really a cycle of 
abuse because you never know when it's 
coming and so it keeps you on your toes 
and it keeps you hoping and wanting that 
initial love bombing stage you're always 
kind of reaching back for that and so 
that's one of the conditions that has to 
be present for a trauma bond to 
exist it's almost like some of those 
studies that talk about slot machines 
and why they're addictive yes right it's 
like you sit there and you put your 
money in you pull the handle again again 
and again and you feel like I fed it 
enough coins that the payout is coming 
if I just stick it out a little longer 
is that is that a good is that a 
metaphor it's it's it's a great metaphor 
and again you know it's the beginning of 
the romance when all the dopamine is 
going and you're just so ecstatic and so 
it's really hard to make sense of what's 
really happening when those extreme 
behaviors are occurring cuz we could get 
into a huge fight and then the next day 
I look in my driveway and I like a 
horseback ride there'd be a 
horse so I'm like is he good or is he 
bad you're like my pony I got my horse 
it's dizy right right you know so it's 
it's very hard to make sense of really 
what's happening and if you're a 
trusting individual such as myself 
you don't recognize that those are big 
red 
flags I love that you're correcting this 
because I think a lot of people maybe 
you can tell me if these this can be a 
dual definition that trauma bonding 
sometimes people feel like oh well I had 
a narcissistic dad and you had a 
narcissistic dad so we're bonding over 
our trauma that trauma bonding that's 
not it no no so it has to have the 
intermittent abuse and it has to have 
the second condition which is a power in 
balance 
so the power and balance can occur if 
somebody has more resources like clearly 
he a power and balance can occur simply 
because you love someone they have power 
over you we hope they don't abuse it but 
they do and also also what happened with 
us he gains a lot of power over me 
because he was so dominating and 
threatening and 
intimidating I would fear 
him so those two pieces have to be there 
for a trauma bond to 
so it was his personality it was his 
financial status it was like he was the 
son yeah definitely and I had to revolve 
around him I could have NOS I couldn't 
have boundaries and I'm a very strong 
independently willed woman but again I 
was just no match for 
him right right I completely hear you so 
okay so I digressed a little bit off the 
road come back and tell your story so 
now your guts going off but you get 
married 6 months later or 6 months you 
get engaged 6 months after dating 
married six months later yeah yeah so we 
got the Eng my stomach said uh oh we 
took the Concord to Paris that was when 
the Concord was still around so again 
you know the the extravagant lifestyle 
and the love bombing just you know 
continuing continuing and then six 
months later yeah we got 
married we got married 
and um we got in a huge fight the night 
before our wedding because because he' 
wanted me to get pregnant I did get 
pregnant I did have a miscarriage but 
you know here this guy is telling me I 
want to get married I want to have a 
baby and then he's 
wasted you know the night before our 
wedding and I got of course furious with 
him but I had 200 people we got married 
in anguila on the island and I was like 
okay I guess here we go 
so it was Rocky from the beginning but 
again mixed it was so Rocky mixed with 
all these extreme gestures of 
love right and so it's like some it it's 
like you don't know North from South at 
that point no and I was 
23 at that point right I knew nothing 
anyway right right right and like you 
said you had a great mom good dad kind 
of bopped in and out a little bit so so 
nothing really you you had things to go 
on but not you know it's like okay and 
we have Disney that takes over like okay 
I guess this is it and this is what I 
have to do and now how 
did the drugs did it just get worse and 
worse like you said they started out 
with Quaaludes I had to I heard an 
interview with you because I was like 
what is a Quaalude you're like it's like 
a sedative but it's amazing 
I know but it's not good to do drugs and 
it happen like with most 
addictions starts out 
slow right they're Insidious they build 
and they build and they build and you 
know when you're dealing with somebody 
who has a lot of money and a lot of 
power um and everybody's saying yes to 
them right and I had knew nothing about 
addiction of course and so the addiction 
just like the coercive control and the 
abuse just 
escalated wow and so now you have baby 
number one baby number two which and you 
know kids are amazing but they don't 
make anything 
easier no and you know that's what 
happens a lot of times in these 
relationships you know you have a big 
fight you feel violated your boundaries 
AC crossed you don't feel heard then you 
wake up and you have kid to take care of 
you have family coming over for Easter 
right life like and then you're just 
like oh hope is the hook he he he'll be 
better next week or he says he's going 
to change and so you just stay and you 
stay at least I did and I think it's 
very common with the women that I work 
with 
and do you find that you know let's say 
it's 3070 that intermittent 
reinforcement we live for the 30 but 
over time the 30 goes to 20 and then it 
goes to 10 and you're getting crumbs and 
that's how and we just that's how it is 
is that yeah right say that's very 
accurate yeah for sure and he would just 
he just got crazier and crazier and 
crazier um how how did he get crazier 
tell us he just got 
more how can I say this he just you know 
in the beginning I talk about how they 
wear a 
mask right we I we used to call it Dr 
Jackal Mr Hyde but none of my young 
girls know that so now I call it dirty 
John and Romeo makes it easier for them 
and so you know the mask just slips more 
often dirty John the the the the bad 
part just becomes more and more apparent 
because they can't keep it on all the 
time right and so and you know in a 
relationship we all have emotional needs 
so anytime I really expressed a need it 
wasn't met so then you so loss of self 
is a huge thing in a trauma Bond because 
you really you become a shell of a 
person because this person just becomes 
more dominating more controlling and 
it's all about 
them and that just started to just build 
now again with some little perks thrown 
in right for sure every now you get that 
glimmer you get that little 
cookie going and I and I remember had a 
huge fight one night and I said to him 
you know the only reason anybody puts up 
with you is for the perks oh wow that 
didn't go well oh what happened oh he 
got he he had he had like like rage like 
a tsunami he left the house he didn't 
come home for a day because he knew it 
was 
Tri right it's like you're buying people 
yeah I spoke the truth right and you 
know that's one thing that when you're 
with a person like this the more 
defensive they get the trer you know 
what you said to them it's real oh yeah 
and the more they rage more they rage 
and I didn't go up a house with any 
yelling so this anger and rage to me was 
I I was in a new land that I had I'm 
like I've never been in this land so 
hence why I put myself right in 
therapy so I put myself right in therapy 
the beginning of the marriage because I 
like I have no idea what's happening 
did your mom what did your mom say about 
all of this if your mom was reading 
Freud and house talking about your 
feelings was she losing her mind 
watching yes yes when I first got 
engaged she said she took me to lunch 
she goes you know you don't have to do 
this wow and I was like no but I do I 
love him you know that young girl 
Ridiculousness oh yeah she was um yeah 
she was very concerned but nobody could 
through to me no no we're you're you're 
under the spell yes I'm in a trans I'm 
in a trance so she couldn't get through 
it to me till she did till she did yeah 
and now speaking of till she did let's 
Flash Forward things get crazier the 
drugs get worse all of the things the 
partying and now what finally what was 
the straw that broke the camels back for 
you yeah I have three 
okay let's talk about the three straws I 
had three I had one I told him you have 
to get sober not going to sit here and 
watch you kill yourself like all of 
these yes men are doing for you and he 
went crazy so I'm going to leave you if 
you don't get sober um he took my 
jewelry and clothing lit them in the 
fire you know in the fireplace he 
literally just took yourself mov yeah 
and just and did that and then he got um 
violent with me and there the scene in 
the movie doesn't really depict what 
happened but he told me he was going to 
take my daughter and I tried to chase 
after him and he kicked me down the 
stairs but luckily I was really young 
and in good shape and I chased him out 
and he drove us both into the garage but 
at that point the police had come and so 
they took him away and he did go to 
rehab so that was great but then a year 
later he got 
arrested and I just 
said I knew he I knew I was safe once he 
got arrested because I knew he couldn't 
hurt me anymore and I knew he couldn't 
he was clearly indicative that he was 
the more troubled person and I was not 
and so I left and in between the time 
that he kicked me down the stairs and he 
got arrested I confronted him about all 
the pain that I had endured and I said 
you know that was really hard your drug 
addiction uh the the the abuse the rage 
and he goes wasn't that 
bad and so the lack of remorse which oh 
yeah I didn't know the word callousness 
and I didn't know the word you know I 
didn't know what callousness was but I 
can still picture myself sitting in that 
Japanese restaurant and something inside 
closing so those were my three straws 
the violence the callousness and then 
once he was arrested I was like bye so 
that was it you're like I'm pulling the 
plug do not resuscitate peace out I'm 
out yeah I was done I was done yeah okay 
so you get your kids you go he goes he 
stays clean after that he stays yeah he 
stays clean yep he stays clean he um we 
had two homes so he went to The Hamptons 
and I stayed in my house and um it was 
great I felt free I can only imagine and 
things got better over 
time yeah you know the funny thing I 
mean listen he did not want to get 
divorced um for sure he didn't go to 
jail he didn't get sentenced till five 
or six years later which is quite common 
with that and the interesting part is 
we've pretty much almost always gotten 
along since 
then which is great because it's 
wonderful for my kids yeah yeah but you 
know if we talk about the power 
imbalance once he got arrested we were 
even and once that power imbalance 
shifted right yeah it changed 
everything 
and I'm not sure if it would mean that 
he could actually start to take 
accountability for his actions but it 
sounds like the power came more towards 
the center that's right right I don't 
know that 
he'll really take full accountability 
for that but it didn't matter because I 
was gone you were done yeah I was done 
that was it that was it you're still 
young you're in your early 30s at this 
point yes I'm in my early 30s yep and I 
got two little babies you know they're 
five and three and luckily though in my 
marriage I had started a little business 
so I had a maternity company with a 
website and a catalog and a little store 
so I had started to build my 
Independence and so I had that when I 
left 
him and um then about two years later or 
a year and a half later I met my current 
husband and he lived in California and I 
was like we're 
moving wow because he couldn't stop me 
from moving which was great because I 
wanted my kids to have a fresh 
start and I didn't want them to deal 
with that Legacy that had nothing to do 
with them and so we moved and nobody 
knew anything 
California oh my gosh and how did you 
meet your husband on a blind date okay 
you didn't have to Bumble or hinge it up 
no I I went on a lot of dates before 
that trust me I was having fun 
dating God I was having way too much fun 
but um yeah on a blind date and we had a 
great first blind date he has he had 
three little kids I had two we were both 
in the Garment business 
and yeah we're together now 25 years 
that's 
amazing um well and okay so in your 
healing you not only went to therapy but 
you have taken on a new career tell us 
about this yeah so you know therapy was 
so I always say I believe therapy saved 
my 
life because it really allowed me to 
manage so much chaos 
and after I left Jordan I went to a 
clinic called the Karen foundation and 
did a week-long program called 
breakthrough to really like because when 
you're in a trauma Bond you're so 
obsessed with the other person because 
you have to be so when I work with my 
patients I say you know turn the M 
mirror back on you which is what I did 
and so therapy and um deep psychological 
reflection had been such an important 
part of my healing that at 39 I said I'm 
going to go back to school become a 
therapist and you did and I did I got my 
masters got my doctorate and uh started 
yeah a great little Private Practice in 
Manhattan Beach 
California amazing I love I love your 
life well talk about um you you wrote a 
book which I love the title run like 
hell so we're not mincing word here 
words here ladies and gentlemen if you 
see this character 
run like hell so talk about you call 
them the pathological lover the 
narcissistic pathological lover talk a 
little bit about this right you might 
have had a little bit of an experience 
with it but just pretend yeah just a 
little bit you know a little bit is when 
I started my practice my practice 
developed I really never wanted a 
specialty it's so funny how things we 
resist happen but I kept seeing all 
these smart Bright Beautiful kind 
amazing women in trauma 
bonds right betrayed abused controlled 
lied to manipulated and I said okay I 
got to go back to the research me the 
academic and in 2019 I read an amazing 
book called women who love 
Psychopaths by Sandra L Brown and the 
way she had written about the female in 
the trauma Bond really um Turned its 
head on the whole thing that I had read 
so far um and so I just kept digging 
digging digging and doing all this 
research on the dark tetrad and I came 
to understand that these men are not 
just narcissistic and we hear that word 
thrown around so much but I call them 
pathological because pathological means 
mentally 
unwell and I believe that anybody that 
will lie betray harm exploit 
um and control people that they love to 
get their needs met for money power 
pleasure and Status are mentally 
unwell and so they're usually just a lot 
more than a 
narcissist wow a lot more and you just 
mentioned something the dark tetrad talk 
about that yeah so the dark tetrad um 
was a term that came to be in about 2002 
and it's it's an umbrella term for 
people that have lent 
intentions and so it includes narcissism 
psychopathy 
machanism and 
sadism and all of these traits kind of 
mingle you know cross and mingle and so 
that's what I was really seeing with 
these 
characters that sometimes you know they 
were very Mach abellan I mean if you 
think about Jordan he 
manipulated me to go on that first 
meeting that's pretty 
mellan to pay somebody 
$15,000 and it's like the ultimate bait 
and switch Yeah Yeah and then 
psychopathy is the callousness and the 
boldness and the fearlessness and the 
and the 
impulsivity then you have narcissism 
where you have vulnerable and grandiose 
narcissism and Satanism not everybody 
has that that's a really sick person who 
gets uh joy out of just harming people 
that they know 
but then they can have a substance use 
disorder right they are 
impulsive they can have a sex addiction 
or gambling addiction like a compulsive 
process disorder and they can have a 
mood disorder so they're much more than 
just a narcissist so that's why I came 
up with the term pathological lover 
because people need to understand that 
there are bad people out there that you 
could be dating yeah that don't present 
like that 
let me ask you a question you know I've 
been date coaching men and women for 15 
years and work a lot with probably a 
very similar client base and patient 
base that you have do you think that as 
people become more successful in their 
careers they can start out as a decent 
good human being I've seen this with 
some of my clients they marry their 
college sweethearts they're both you 
know two sticks together to try to make 
life and then he becomes more and more 
successful over time and there's a you 
know and something that because I I 
can't go back and be in the marriage and 
watch the development so I'm hearing 
reports from what happens later it's 
like no he was great for the first 10 
years or 20 years but then something 
shifted can that 
happen yeah because I think that this 
person also is very entitled and can 
think that they're Superior and I think 
that arrogance well I know that 
arrogance is a huge part of this 
personality it's part of the antagonism 
so yeah I think that as a person becomes 
more arrogant they lose their humility 
yeah and it can lend them to not be very 
kind to to their lovers and they can 
become you know they can become this 
pathological person so the disease the 
posos can be there from the GetGo or it 
can develop at any yeah I think it was 
probably a little bit there there were 
seedlings in there that may be like you 
know genetic 
expression expressed yet but yeah sure I 
mean I mean money corrupts yeah money 
gives power right 100% And like you're 
saying when you're with someone who 
doesn't hear 
no that's right from anybody in their 
lives and the more powerful you get that 
you have a smaller and smaller tranch of 
people if anybody that say no to you 
that's right that's right and if you and 
if they've been with somebody for a long 
time and the passion has died down and 
they become more complacent towards them 
right they can really devalue them and 
just like I'm not listening to you yeah 
yeah exactly and sometimes many of them 
to your point they don't want to get 
divorced they're like well I just want 
to have my cake and eat it too but on 
the rare occasion somebody will you know 
the person typically the man will blow 
up his life and say I want a divorce 
I've met someone else right and you're 
like what the hell just happened right 
or they want like you say or they want 
to or they feel entitled to have the 
double standard because double are 
abusive Lindy bankr taught me that and 
um and they're like no I can be married 
and have extra marital but you can right 
of course not and you need to be okay 
with this because this is part of the 
arrangement that's right right here's an 
envelope full of some money go shop and 
here's our new Arrangement 
right right but that's you know we're 
emotional beings and we build we'll 
build for attachment so that usually 
doesn't last 
You Are there women Dr Nay that are more 
susceptible to this yes and I and I was 
one of them and I did not know that and 
that's what I learned from Sandra 
Brown's work um she she was test she was 
working with women who were in these 
trauma bonds but she was working with 
professional women more like lawyers or 
doctors or just professional women and 
she noticed that she gave them all 
this five Factor model of Personality 
assessment which I have on my website 
and it measures openness 
conscientiousness agreeableness 
neuroticism 
extraversion and I'm sure I'm missing 
one neuroticism extraversion I missing 
one no I don't think so so it spells 
ocean if anybody wants to look it up and 
what she discovered is that women that 
score very high in agreeableness and 
conscientiousness are pray and magnets 
for these men 
because they're agreeable meaning 
they're loyal and tolerant and they're 
pro-social people like me where 
relationships are everything to me hence 
why I'm a therapist and I'm my same best 
friend since I'm 
six and they're conscientiousness 
they're very conscientious meaning 
they're organized they're 
diligent um they will get things done 
and they will see things through which 
is great except for you're in a trauma 
mind and so what she discovered is a lot 
I think she says in her research 
70% and I've started to see the pattern 
in my practice because I give Every 
Woman the assessment that comes to me so 
I can educate them now they all don't 
fall for that some are more dependent 
and have a different personality types 
where they score high some are some do 
have more developmental trauma so their 
uh results look different but 
when I saw that I was like oh my God 
okay this makes sense 
because if a woman comes to me and she's 
kind and talling and loyal I'm not going 
to therapize that out of her I'm not 
going to shame her no I'm GNA stigmatize 
her and that's one of the reasons why I 
wrote my book was because I was so sick 
of the victim being stigmatized totally 
100% And to your 
point these are successful professional 
women as well as others but if you have 
these personality characteristics as 
you're talking about them like wow 
extroverted conscientious agreeable I'm 
like check check yeah the work that we 
both do right and it's like right and so 
often you're right I do see a lot of 
people that come from the service 
professions that tend to fall prey to 
these kinds of characters because I call 
them I I simplify it to some extent I 
say you know what givers and takers 
sometimes have a magnet to each other 
yes yeah yeah and that's the title of my 
fourth chapter opposites to 
attract right and so so if you think 
about it pathological lover is highly 
antagonistic a highly agreeable person 
is perfect for them 
you antagonistic people you'll have 
World War II right great chemistry for 
about four to six months and then world 
war three because you can't have two 
people grabbing the wheel of the car 
that's right that's right you have to 
have one that's like it's okay honey you 
do it and I was that person and again 
you know not because I'm weak it's just 
because it's my temperament yeah right 
it's my temperament um you know now I've 
gotten stronger of course say I'm a 56y 
old woman wom um that's changed a little 
bit but also women are socialized to be 
more like that right 100% um and do you 
see men that fall free to female 
pathological for sure yeah me too oh 
yeah yeah yeah I mean I write my book 
you know in that you know like focusing 
on women but of course it's crosses 
genders you know any sexual orientation 
right people are people yeah it's just 
the research has been more about women 
because you know we live in a patriarchy 
right in these heteronormative 
relationships but I've seen right gay 
women that have beened up with a 
pathological awful partner and try to 
extricate themselves and it's no 
different than what you described y 
right no it's it's and this is the thing 
and I say this to people it can happen 
to anyone and 
everyone now let's say it's happened how 
can you heal before you get back into 
the dating world because 
you did a lot of healing a lot of work 
on yourself I'm going to surmise in 
order to a couple years post divorce to 
meet this amazing man who is lovely and 
loving and how did you how were you a 
able to make that shift to someone who 
is normal and didn't like activate your 
entire nervous 
system well you know when you've been in 
a trauma Bond I always think you never 
want to be in one again so you will 
really do anything to not endure that 
again because it's very painful so I 
like I said I got really curious I 
learned a lot about 
myself and um what I did was I just 
learn to trust myself more as much as 
it's about learning to trust others 
again because you do have to do that 
after you've been terribly betrayed but 
I just learned to trust myself more 
again um because I had done the work and 
you know back then again nobody was 
really talking about this not even in my 
own 
therapy but yeah I just learned about 
myself I learned about my attachment 
pattern I learned about um I learned how 
to set boundaries you know I I didn't 
even know what a boundary was till I was 
31 no I was talking about that I was 
like wait I can say 
no yeah like thank you to really find my 
voice and I say this to my patients you 
don't find your voice to change anybody 
you find your voice because you have to 
give you have to give your Truth voice 
yeah and however behave they behave and 
so I just got older and more mature as 
we do right and just got stronger and 
that's doesn't mean my marriage is not 
perfect far from it but we've both been 
willing to change and grow 
together absolutely and so for people to 
heal it's work and it's going through 
therapy is there if you find yourself in 
trauma bonds once or many of my clients 
have been repetitively in a trauma Bond 
because I think human beings can be 
creatures of habit and as much as you 
know 
well I know what a narcissist is I've 
had people come to me like I you know I 
had a woman on my podcast um who became 
a client who said I was married to a 
narcissist and I did all the therapy I 
did eat prey love I traveled the world I 
was dating myself and I got into my next 
relationship and married him and he was 
a worse narcissist than the first yeah 
that's that's terrible well you know I 
think you have to go to a trauma inform 
therapist um I think there's EMDR that 
you can do and you really need to 
understand what your personality traits 
are are you reenacting developmental 
trauma or are you wired you know with 
this agreeableness and conscientiousness 
what's your attachment pattern and you 
really need to understand yourself and 
also learn about relationships I mean we 
go to school to learn about reading 
writing and 
arithmetic but the fourth our 
relationships are the foundation of our 
lives and people say to me why' you get 
your PhD I said just to deal with my 
family now the work on the side is great 
but relationships are really 
challenging you know and so come to 
people like you or like me that you know 
we've made this our life's work and and 
and reach out for help and don't isolate 
and don't be ashamed because it's just 
part of the journey and we don't know 
how to do it right and that's okay and 
that's okay and what we do for people 
that have come out of these trauma bonds 
you it's provide that gentle 
supportive that's good that's not good 
you would laugh I think I told you when 
we were prepping for or offline before 
we got on we take a nerdy Finance person 
and turn them into a dating coach we 
have graphs for what healthy 
relationship trajectory love it what 
narcissists look like what Failure to 
Launch avoidance look like so and 
scorecards helping to I love that 
capture your feelings right in the 
moment because you know when you have 
been through Little T Big T trauma maybe 
it started at home maybe it was in your 
marriages we tend to over time greenwash 
those red flags right paint them green 
because that's how we survived because 
that's how you deal with the 
70% BS is you you rationalize it you 
know what I'm probably being too picky I 
don't think that was a red flag I'm not 
going to tell Bella and then six weeks 
later they're like did I for did I tell 
you that on our nth day that he didn't 
show up because he was blackout drunk 
and I waited I was like you did not yeah 
tell me that so D dating scorecards were 
developed immediately and like for it 
after because then when 
we time info then I'm like we're g to be 
able to help you with good inputs I need 
you to trust your body to trust your 
instincts write them down in this format 
and then we're going to help you so 
that's we I always tell my clients we're 
going to wrap you in pink sparkly bubble 
wrap and make sure that you don't get 
dinged up during this process while 
we're trying to get up love Mountain 
we're going to help you stay away from 
dumpster fire relationships and what's 
better than that yeah and and you bring 
up a good point you know I got my doctor 
in somatic Psychotherapy and what I tell 
my patients is like the true self lives 
from here to here like I'm putting my 
hands to my fixs right on my from my 
throat to my pelvis and like start to 
trust this right because this comes up 
with ridiculous Stories the brain you 
know we've reified the brain and just 
made it the most important thing and 
made thoughts the most important thing 
but really the body doesn't lie and 
don't override it and and listen to that 
it's very 
important n every client I have that 
comes from you know a divorce something 
traumatic I'm like when did you see the 
red flags 
99% of them were like oh they were there 
from the beginning there right we drive 
by them yeah right and what happens in 
the dating process and this is why we 
really slow things down we have rules 15 
dates until exclusivity and that's over 
three months and the graphs show why and 
it's really to Watch What Happens date 
overd situation by situation and what 
happens is when you slow down a process 
and you know that you have guides around 
you you become more confident in 
yourself yes yes and that's slowing down 
is so key because I always say intensity 
is not intimacy amen and when we narrow 
down our choices too quickly as Disney 
tells us get swept off your feet there's 
a three dat rule wham bam thank you 
ma'am done you're oxytocin bondage 
you've got blinders on and that why 
we're not dumb what do we do the 
obsessive nature of romantic love allows 
us to sweep the red flags under the rug 
but we knew we had a broom in our hands 
we just didn't want to say it it's like 
sweep sweep sweep yep they were there 
here's the carpet the red flags were 
there from the gecko were there yeah and 
when you combine that with the thing 
that we are social beings we're wired 
for connection we're wired for love and 
really that's what everybody just wants 
to belong and be loved 
and it's hard I love your system oh my 
God I got so many 
referrals oh yeah we've had zero 
divorces in 15 
years that's so good it's well you know 
when you measure three times cut once 
yeah right and sometimes our clients are 
like come on it's been six days I'm like 
nope you will just trust us we 
trust fall we will not we will net the 
bad guys in 15 days right because people 
that are narcissistic avoidant typically 
if you're watching for it what I've seen 
is at the latest four months post 
exclusivity you start to see the cracks 
in the armor if you look for that's when 
I started to see it yep I need to do it 
of course and it's okay because I have 
two beautiful children and I was young 
but yeah know especially if you've been 
divorced and you're back in the dating 
scene what a great system I love this 
because I'm very data driven as well you 
know my book has I don't even know how 
many references in it because it's 
research based and that's what we have 
to go off research matters data matters 
research matters data matters Dr Nay 
where can we get more of you oh you're 
so sweet we could talk forever this is 
way too much fun so you can find me at 
the real do a on Instagram I post daily 
I answer all my direct messages I love 
my community we' built a really safe 
beautiful Community there um dr.com go 
to my website I have tons of free 
resources tons of free assessments 
because you have to take tons of 
Assessments to get to know yourself you 
can't just rely on this to be reflective 
right you need data and um Tik Tock 
which is so crazy Dr Nay lmft I call it 
the wild west of the internet and that's 
really it yeah you can get my book 
anywhere Amazon I always I do a post 
where if you're in a trauma Bond get the 
ebook right or get the audio book keep 
yourself safe um yeah and I just feel 
blessed to do what I do oh you are doing 
God's work and a blessing to the world 
so what an amazing story you have and 
someday you're going to write your own 
autobiography cuz you're story is 
amazing and so inspiring and I'm 
grateful that you came on to share with 
us about your pivot and smart daters if 
you want to be inspired just sit back 
and think about what Dr Nay did with her 
life the Hellfire she walked through to 
heal find a great partner have a blended 
family with five kids and get her 
doctorate that is some badass stuff and 
you had Margo Robbie play you 
against Leo and with Martin score Cy you 
have led a very big amazing life and if 
you don't tell yourself that I want you 
to know I see you a thank you so much so 
lovely lovely to meet you the pleasure 
was all mine smart daters get inspired 
do something big and awesome for 
yourself that brings you Joy this week 
and if you love this episode rate it 
tell us why you loved it because we read 
every sing single one until our next 
episode we will see you again 


I always say this to my patients you you 
have to remember nobody was talking 
about narcissism and Trauma bonds and 
love bombing nobody was talking about it 
based on all those Disney movies I was 
like oh my my prince has come this is 
what's supposed to happen he's going to 
pull up in the white limo and I'm going 
to be in my leather minis skirt 
buttercap in the back I'm so with you 
that was really the story The the myth 
of romantic love that we were fed we 
should be swept off our feet there 
should be grandiose gesture 
because this is Prince Charming and I 
like to say what happens when you get 
swept off your feet you land on your 
back look up like what the hell just 
happened but I could never set 
boundaries with him or fight him and 
then I just think oh he just loves me so 
much but my gut I did a video about this 
when he asked me to get married he got 
engaged my gut said uhoh 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your life Welcome Back 
I hope that you've had a great week and 
that you have celebrated you and all of 
the awesomeness in your week and if you 
haven't I want you to think to yourself 
right now what are three great things 
that have happened to me or three things 
I'm looking forward to okay take a 
minute and I want you to put yourself 
into the most positive headspace that 
you can because we have some really 
positive amazing information to impart 
on you so we're going to Dive Right In 
and because she's so friggin fantastic 
I'm bringing Lindsay Anderson my right 
hand blonde-haired blue-eyed soulmate 
she's the Luke Skywalker to my Darth 
Vader as I like to say and I brought her 
back because we've never done this 
before and the secrets to successful 
dating was so crazily lusciously packed 
with information that we couldn't get it 
all jammed into one so we are now 
bringing you in to episode two for even 
more secrets now yes there is a part one 
and don't freak out and think you have 
to listen to this this is not the Star 
Wars and The Empire Strikes Back you can 
listen to this episode and go back and 
listen to last week's episode you'll be 
fine so with no further Ado Lindsay 
welcome back to the podcast 
thank you thank you I'm so excited this 
has been so fun I I am really happy that 
we have a chance to do this and if you 
know Bella and I you know that we could 
have conversations that could start and 
could carry on for days and days and 
days so I feel very lucky that we could 
divide this up into two point two parts 
so we can try to get out as much as we 
can and who knows there's always more 
stewing in our head so and we are the we 
will give you everything that we have 
and everything that we know to help you 
all with your dating and before so if 
you're wondering okay what is this I 
have to tell you Lindsay has worked with 
me and Smart dating Academy since 2013. 
so we are going on a decade together 
right that's like 3650 days together so 
those of you who know me know I like 
those kinds of numbers but we have 
another really important number to share 
with you in the last six days alone 
we've had ding ding two clients 
message us with engagement rings and 
these are both clients that have worked 
with Lindsay at smartdating Academy in 
me of course so 
um 
Holly text she emailed us yesterday 
saying that while she was on a hike with 
her amazing boyfriend they got engaged 
and Lindsay you and I were talking a 
little bit before the microphone went on 
is Holly was an ideal client because she 
followed the process exactly so tell us 
about that she did I mean Holly is well 
everyone is who knows Holly is lucky she 
is truly a lovely warm smart engaging 
woman and she came to us with dating 
patterns just like all of our clients 
who enlist our help they come to us 
trying to figure out why they are so 
successful at work and why this piece of 
getting what they want out of 
relationships isn't working for them and 
Holly is she was incredibly coachable 
and she is coachable which is I think 
why she does so well at work but she was 
really good at saying listen I have 
invested in this I'm going to listen to 
what you guys say even if I'm not sure I 
want to do it I'll just tell you I don't 
know this is a little bit weird and 
she'll keep going so what Holly did 
she hit a couple of the tenements we 
talked about last week where she really 
made sure that she kept other daters in 
the mix and she didn't lock him down 
right away when he first showed up so 
she always had a good pipeline she 
compared and she contrast there was one 
guy who seemed a little more exciting at 
first and of course spoil alert she 
ended up with the steady guy who was 
consistent who showed up who is lovely 
and thoughtful and kind and considerate 
and it was easy and that was the big 
word that Holly kept saying she's like 
I've never dated anybody where it's felt 
this easy and honestly I couldn't be 
thrilled but she was really good at 
pacing her dating life keeping other 
people in the mix not jumping in too 
soon not going all in making sure she 
had the conversations ahead of time 
about what they both wanted long term so 
they knew they were working towards a 
future together 
and then there's a whole lot more 
because we got to work together for a 
long time but she's fabulous and I'm 
really excited for them both and for 
those of you that are curious 
um I'll post in the show notes the story 
of Holly because she's given us 
permission and she wrote this cute 
little 
um this cute little statement about what 
she did and how she found love so if 
you're curious about that there will be 
a link in the show notes where you can 
read about the magical Holly and just 
sit right now before we get into this 
and know that good things are coming for 
you you're smart enough to listen to 
this smart podcast you're smart enough 
to know you want to make those kinds of 
changes so I what I want you to do is 
get psychotically optimistic right now 
and say if it happened for Holly it's 
gonna happen for me it's a when it's not 
an if and now that you're in that mind 
space and you're feeling the little 
tinglies and you're feeling the warm hug 
Lindsey and I are saying sending you 
across the Audio Waves we're going to 
Dive Right In and talk to you about the 
reciprocal we kind of ended with this a 
little bit but I want to Circle back to 
this Lindsay where there's smoke there 
is fire this is and this is one of the 
things we tell our clients all the time 
and this is something my dad taught me 
young you know what and what is what 
does it mean where there's smoke there's 
fire it's like when you start to see 
that something's a little weird right 
when you look up in the sky and you see 
that plume of black you're like huh 
that's not probably a bunch of cicadas 
flying around there's there's a fire 
somewhere underneath there so when you 
start to see people that are not 
behaving well I think what you've got 
yourself there is you're netting 
somebody that might be narcissistic that 
might not be emotionally available or 
just might be a dog gonger so let's talk 
a little bit about that what have you 
what have you seen with with with red 
flags Lindsay where our clients are 
successful and where they can turn this 
around what are the red flags that they 
start to detect and throw back to the 
pond yes well I think the fun thing is 
every single week I am helping people 
see those red flags in their individual 
dating situation so if I even just went 
back to this week alone I'm like I have 
a checklist already in place so even 
just one thing I was talking about with 
a client yesterday is just that idea 
that what starts fast often ends fast 
and a big red flag to us is somebody who 
really wants to rush into a relationship 
right away and they want to lock you 
down quickly and they want to go all in 
they are very focused on their own needs 
their own wants and they don't when you 
put a boundary around taking things 
slowly meaning you have a great date on 
a Monday and they ask you out for 
Wednesday and you say I'd love to go out 
with you on Wednesday I just can't I 
could see you next week 
the smoke fire are the ones who are 
saying you know what no oh you is this 
not a priority to you are you not going 
to make time wait what are you doing 
where are you going are you seeing other 
people and they try to make you feel 
guilty if you don't give them enough 
time right away so I saw that already 
earlier this week 
um and it's controlling that is 
controlling Behavior right if you want 
to control what someone else is saying 
if like Lindsay's saying if we tell our 
clients that was a great date and they 
want to ask you out again for tomorrow 
and you punt to next week and if they 
start to behave that way it's a red flag 
on them but the Insidious part of this 
is it'll make you feel like especially 
if you're coming from that scarcity 
mindset like you've got to take this 
good one while it's hot and what we will 
tell you is the perfect litmus test is 
when you've had a great date and when 
they think it's a great date and they 
want to see you right away 
push it out just a little bit we're not 
saying months we're saying not tomorrow 
or the day after and see how they react 
and of course we're going to give you 
script and we do around how to say that 
so that the person feels good about it 
and they don't feel like their priority 
B and C but if someone wigs at you for 
doing that and for not being as into 
this as you are and and that is 100 
a red flag and even now let's Flash 
Forward even if 
this person was great in the beginning 
now let's say by the sixth date okay or 
the seventh date or the eighth date they 
want to pull you off the market they 
want to be exclusive but you're not 
ready for this yet you can tell them you 
know what I'm really enjoying being with 
you I'm enjoying the dating process but 
I don't want to make mistakes that I've 
made in the past and take responsibility 
see how that person reacts to you 
slowing things down and if their 
reaction is negative if it is judgmental 
critical a little disappointment is okay 
I'll take disappointment like oh okay 
you know what I'm a little bummed about 
that but you know what I want you to 
feel like you're good and I want you to 
feel comfortable so I'll go along with 
that okay A little disappointment is 
fine would you agree absolutely and I I 
think what we see is a lot of 
consistency the good people who really 
want to be in relationships will be 
really respectful of your pace they will 
like you a little more and they'll 
realize that you're worth waiting for 
and if you need to slow it down they're 
like okay I'm good I'll take as much 
time as you need to feel comfortable you 
know with the pushiness a client um she 
had gone out with the guy I just talked 
to her yesterday about 
seven dates or so and she had gone out 
of town she just came back so they set 
up a date after and he got incredibly 
pushy about wanting to come up to her 
apartment at the end of the day no all 
right if you are a smart dater and 
you're in our mix you know we talk a lot 
about do not have people up into your 
apartment until you are exclusive hold 
off on all of that 
because it starts because things will go 
off the rails and everyone gets a little 
physical and she just said listen I 
really like you like where things are 
going I'm just I don't I don't I don't I 
don't feel comfortable having you up 
today but I'm really I know we have 
plans tomorrow I'm excited to see you 
tomorrow and he started playing the 
victim oh I just don't think you like me 
enough why won't you you know I'll just 
come up she's like I'm tired he said 
it's okay I'll I'll leave when you fall 
asleep it was and he kept pushing and 
pushing and pushing being respectful of 
her back 
and then he bit he started to flip it on 
her a little bit she's like wait maybe I 
was like no no no you were you stated 
what your line was and he kept pushing 
that is a red flag anybody who doesn't 
respect your boundaries is a big red 
flag anybody who's so focused on what 
they want and not looking at what's 
helpful to build move things forward 
together red flag and then he got and 
then she knows the change in Behavior he 
got a little snippy with her and then he 
just walked away in a huff 
oh bad oh yeah we're giving him the 
goodbye sandwich we're letting him go 
let me ask you this were there red flags 
before the date the seventh date so 
that's what's interesting anybody he 
started off pretty well so we talk about 
this a lot when you're dating people you 
don't know in those first few dates if 
this person's going to be Go the 
Distance with you because I think that 
up front you are we always talk about 
how you're dating the representative 
people know how to present themselves in 
the beginning obvious red flags will 
come out right away but sometimes it 
takes a few dates so this was a big 
shift in Behavior I think there were 
enough there wasn't anything obvious but 
her she had been pacing the dates really 
well she'd just been out with them for a 
couple of hours or a date here and there 
at a time and then the pushiness started 
to kick in so you have to date people 
longer to really know who they are who 
so when if somebody says oh he's so 
lovely and wonderful and so trustworthy 
and I'm and like okay well that's date 
number two let's give it some time and 
just see let's give it some time 
remember there's no substitute for time 
in the dating process and so often to 
Lindsay's point and great story it's we 
want to make these snap judgments and 
this dude looked fine until this moment 
right and then he flipped so guess what 
if we would have played by three day 
rule okay if we would have said yeah 
he's amazing let's put you in let's be 
exclusive which is kind of what he 
wanted from the get-go imagine what 
would have happened right at that point 
you might sleep together your oxytocin 
bonded you now 
start ignoring red flags you start 
making excuses for the things that you 
don't like right because now you're in 
and you're chemically bonded so there's 
so much wisdom in slowing things down 
and letting people remember ladies and 
gentlemen a person needs to earn you 
absolutely say that again Bella that is 
so important they need to earn you right 
and in our practice at Smart dating they 
need to earn you and they need to earn 
us at the same time because we're you 
know you're we're your guardian angels 
in the dating World we're your personal 
trainers but people need to earn you and 
earning doesn't come fast right if you 
think about you're going out on three 
dates with somebody if you're you know 
even if you're going on two three hour 
dates you've kind of spent one 
legitimate nine to five work day with 
this person if you add up the cumulative 
hours it's not a lot of time ladies and 
gentlemen that we're listening to you 
know all the bad crappy information 
that's out there like we need to lock 
things down and we've got to do things 
quickly because someone else is going to 
take this person not really I mean what 
do you really know if if your kid said 
on day one of school I hate it here I 
want to come home I just drop my 
daughter off off the college as 
everybody knows because I've told all of 
you and she would have called me thank 
God she didn't day one saying mom I want 
to come home do you think I would have 
been like yeah you know what let's pack 
your dorm up and come on home no it's 
day one you've only been there for a day 
and yet when we go out on three dates 
and spend nine hours with somebody we 
want to make decisions as in yeah I can 
be exclusive with you yeah I can sleep 
with you so I'm putting this into time 
hours so we put some ration to a very 
irrational process which is love yes oh 
you were right and and giving things 
time to really see and watching how 
people behave do their words and their 
actions match are they consistent and 
reliable we talked about this with 
another client this morning that I was 
talking to before this podcast where he 
is 
where this guy is really he's being he's 
showing up in a really great way he's 
being consistent he's asking out he's 
not trying to rush things and when 
you're used to dating people always want 
to rush you're like wait a second what's 
wrong like all right this is good we'll 
see this has potential but we won't know 
until we give it months months of dating 
months of dating that's exactly right 
that's exactly right 
but you said you're going back to people 
need to learn you the way we want you to 
really look at this is we want you to 
believe that you are a cat a complete 
catch and then act like it and act like 
it you are amazing you whoever you meet 
whoever you date they are lucky to meet 
you you have something that you're 
bringing to the table and when you date 
from this place of feeling like he is 
lucky or she is lucky to meet me you 
will allow yourself you won't accept the 
crumbs you won't accept the red flags 
this is a big one 
100 and that leads perfectly into the 
next thing that we want to share with 
you which is 
a person that likes you won't leave you 
guessing why because people make time 
for the things and the people they want 
right 
absolutely and I think that's one of the 
things that being a coach over this 
number of years we start seeing we 
talked about this in the last podcast 
but there are patterns and there's a 
very consistent behavior that way that 
people behave who want to be in 
relationships and when I hear that 
somebody is too busy 
and that oh you know if I start hearing 
excuses from somebody like oh he's just 
so busy with work and he's just so busy 
and you know what he can only fit me in 
this one time this month I I don't I 
don't buy it frankly I don't buy it but 
we look at it as when somebody is ready 
to date they will move mountains to be 
with you even if they do have that crazy 
work project or they have something 
going on they will figure out a small 
pocket of time even if just bringing you 
a cup of coffee we have seen it over and 
over again but someone will always make 
time so if somebody is too busy that's 
probably a sign that maybe they're 
really not in the right headspace and 
just pay attention to it and this is why 
you make sure you're always dating other 
people so that if somebody does get 
caught up in their life and they're not 
ready it doesn't hurt so much we'll talk 
about that but well yeah 
but what we see is that people not only 
are they never too busy today they will 
set up dates in advance they will you'll 
end the date they'll tell you this is 
really fun I'd love to see you again 
they follow up within the next few days 
they immediately set up the next date in 
a very consistent way if they're 
traveling they're like I'm going out of 
town at the end of next week I'd like to 
see you when I get back are you free the 
Monday I return from Sunday night and 
they let you know because they 
communicate in a way that you can 
predict what they're going to do 
it's so true and and let me take that 
further down the time Horizon here 
let's say okay let's go back to our 
example with the client who had been on 
seven dates okay and there's everything 
looks like it's you know let me say it's 
pointing Northbound okay like it's all 
going well now all of a sudden let's say 
this person was incredibly consistent 
and they were reliable and suddenly on 
the 7th 8th 10th 12th date something 
like that suddenly they're like 
they stopped texting at the Cadence that 
they used to text you at the dates seem 
to get longer in between they're not 
communicating as much like oh I'm really 
busy at work any Behavior changes like 
that 
fall under the same category nobody is 
too busy 
I don't care what you say I have told 
the story and I will tell it again for 
the people in the back Andy and I when 
we were dating actually we were dating 
her we were married whatever it was we 
were young and we both were had very 
International jobs where we would travel 
to places for months I've lived in Asia 
for months he lived in Germany for 
months and yet even with long distance 
phone bills back in the day we talked to 
each other every day even when there 
were 14 hour time differences between us 
we found a way to talk every single day 
and if we couldn't we would let the 
other person know why we couldn't do 
that but there is no there was no 
guessing there was Zero guessing and now 
that I think about that sorry we weren't 
married we were dating at that point we 
weren't even engaged he did a stint he 
interned or he was working for Daimler 
Chrysler and stuttgard and I was living 
in Hong Kong in the new territories 
setting up when I used to run the 
non-stick coding company with my family 
setting up a new Factory in a new 
laboratory facility so we were literally 
in Germany in Hong Kong and we continued 
our relationship because we wanted to 
and there was no questions about it so 
anybody who changes behaviors but let's 
say Andy started texting me once a week 
because he's like oh Belle I'm just 
really sorry I just can't talk to you 
because this deal is keeping me so busy 
do you think he didn't have have time 
for a 60 second phone call if you're 
listening to this of course yeah think 
about it are you ever ever ever too busy 
to to communicate with someone you love 
never okay so we'll prioritize it no 
matter what and we'll say and what's 
interesting is too you this is why when 
we go back to giving people a lot of 
time things people can make time in the 
beginning and then they can lock you 
down and you can get in a relationship 
with them but then you want to note in 
this first few months of dating 
exclusively do they stay consistent and 
continue to build time for you or again 
if there's that shift in change in 
Behavior something we've observed is 
between months about months three and 
months four of dating that seems to be 
the magic number when there can first be 
the first crack in the armor if there 
were some red flags that were swept 
under the rug so making sure that you 
really date and give somebody long 
enough to really see are they consistent 
and knowing that of course they things 
occasionally will come up it's the 
question is then do they communicate 
this is happening and then they have 
another plan and they address it and 
then they see you right away afterwards 
but we pay attention to any shifts and 
any changes in behavior for sure 
absolutely and remember a person that 
wants to be with you will move mountains 
to be with you okay so that's it they 
won't leave you guessing Okay 
and accelerators on yeah exactly your 
taxi light is on I love that I'm 
available I'm opening 
now let's 
talk about 
the reciprocal to that okay and 
sometimes we get people that come to us 
with a lot of trauma could be anxiety 
could be you know they've been through 
they've been to Hell and back a lot of 
our clients have had things happen to 
them that I wouldn't wish on anybody and 
maybe you listening have been in that 
space of you the love of your life 
suddenly left you at the altar cheated 
on you you know you built this life 
together and they just said woke up one 
day and said you know what I don't love 
you anymore and that is something awful 
and traumatic to go through and 
sometimes what it leads us or it leaves 
us with 
is a whole snake pit of fears and one of 
the biggest fears that we all have in 
our guts and this isn't just if you've 
been ghosted or cheated on this is 
if you're a second grader if you're an 
11th grader if you're in your 20s 30s 
70s or 80s we're afraid of the r word of 
rejection 
rejection let's let's talk about that 
what do you what do you see Lindsay with 
regards to our clients 
having their dating lives affected by 
their fear of rejection what happens 
yeah 
well the Big R word is the scary word 
and it comes up with every single client 
I work with 
and I say that for all of you who are 
listening because this is a very human 
characteristic I think deep down 
everyone is afraid of rejection 
and having worked with both men women in 
every single age group when you realize 
that it's the same thing that every 
single person is afraid of 
I look at it as almost from a place of 
compassion you're afraid of rejection 
the person you're going on a date with 
they're also equally afraid of it and if 
you're both afraid of the same thing I'd 
like you to visualize the two things 
kind of clashing together and then just 
poof be neutralized 
it is come at it from a place of 
compassion 
what is rejection really rejection is 
something that we create in our minds of 
it's our old story playing out am I good 
enough am I smart enough am I pretty 
enough it's all of those things and 
these are just made up thoughts mind 
monkeys swirling around 
rejection on a deep level 
doesn't happen rejection is about the 
story we're telling ourselves and so the 
way that I look at it if a client goes 
on a date with somebody who's really 
they're so excited and then that person 
chooses not to call the next day 
I look at it as it's not about you it's 
where that person's at 
it could be 20 different reasons why 
they didn't call and none of them have 
to do with you they could not be ready 
they could be dating somebody a little 
further wrong they could be really busy 
with work they don't want to be in a 
relationship 
they'd be attracted to dysfunction and 
you are a lovely nice normal person so 
you don't activate them because they 
want something crazy it could be we 
could come up and spend our entire 
podcast coming up with 100 different 
reasons and why it's not about you 
so it is one of those that when some if 
somebody doesn't call after the date 
it's okay you know what you know what 
they're doing they are creating space in 
your life to say I like to say the 
phrase bless and release 
bless these less and release and 
remember one of one of the things 
that I will tell you is we want you to 
know that the person that you should 
that you we want you to end up with 
should like you a little bit more than 
you like them okay and now sit with that 
for a second likes me a little bit more 
why because they prize you they adore 
you they want to take care of you right 
it's like 49 51. you you're 49 they're 
51 and now if someone doesn't want to go 
out on a second date with you do they 
hit your measure well if you didn't like 
me a little bit more 
you they're not the right person for you 
so that's it and you just move along 
because if this person is showing their 
true colors right away who cares Let It 
Go bless release move on and when you 
say no to messaging somebody back when 
you say no to a date is your goal to 
make that person feel rejected 
no never never that is never your goal 
you're just and for whatever reason it 
might be a no for you and it might be a 
no for a hundred different reasons but 
it's your goal to make that person feel 
like you're not good enough yeah no 
nobody wants to do that we're kind 
lovely people absolutely and and this 
for this goes with regards to anything 
if someone comes to me looking for a job 
and I say I'm not sure that there's a 
great fit does that mean I want them to 
feel rejected or they're not good enough 
no it might mean we don't have any 
openings right now it might mean you 
know what we need someone who's 
experienced it with this educational 
background it doesn't mean you're not 
good enough right it just means what it 
means so don't create a story around 
that at the end of the day and it's the 
same thing with dating but dating feels 
so much more personal than it does with 
regards to the example that I just gave 
right now about hiring and jobs right 
because we can create a lot of stories 
around well okay I didn't have the right 
degree or I didn't have five years of 
experience or I didn't have this here 
because we can turn it into something 
quantitative but in dating we turn it 
into something qualitative it's about me 
I'm not pretty enough I'm not good 
enough I'm not smart enough for guys I'm 
not tall enough I'm not rich enough 
whatever that is I want you to say if 
this person doesn't like me a little bit 
more and they're not chomping at the bit 
to go out with me 
I'm throwing them back to the pot so 
good so don't fear rejection everybody's 
afraid of it it's rooted in our most you 
know in the deepest parts of our 
reptilian limbic brains nobody wants to 
be rejected not the kindergartner not 
the middle schooler not the high 
schooler not the Sorority Girl and 
certainly not the adult right we all 
fear rejection and like Lindsay's saying 
I'll put it into mathematical terms look 
at this as a math equation if there's a 
common denominator on both sides it 
cancels itself out 
yes you're exactly right and you know I 
tell you know just the basic we call it 
the rejection well the rejection proof 
rule which is more along the lines if 
you show up on a date and you are 
genuinely bringing your best self to the 
date and you are asking questions and 
you're being kind and you're being nice 
and you're being the person that you are 
then that is it if you are not nobody 
can reject you for being who you are if 
you behave badly if you're mean if 
you're horrible if you say mean things 
to them and you put that person down 
well then hey maybe that is a rejection 
but nobody's doing that everyone is 
going forward and being the best person 
they can on the date and realize that 
when somebody it doesn't work out they 
are creating space in your life for the 
right person to come along 
and so you can often say thank you 
you're showing me early on you're not 
for me but I wish you well who's next 
exactly exactly so don't 
don't get bogged down and being afraid 
of being rejected because it's not going 
to serve you well and that brings me 
perfectly tease me up 
for 
the next secret that we've found that 
has made our clients really successful 
and 
it's what you think 
and what you feel about dating that 
ultimately will decide your outcome yes 
oh my gosh mindset is everything 
everything 
when you choose to embrace dating and 
you choose to like the process and you 
choose to understand that you're we know 
that the person for you is out there 
that you're gonna keep dating until you 
find him and her hair either way but the 
ones who decide to get behind dating and 
to recognize that have fun with it and 
look for what's good those are the 
clients that have the most success 
the two engagements we just had I could 
tell you they were having fun dating now 
normally people don't hear the words 
dating and fun and put the two together 
but unless you're working with us they 
absolutely then you're having a little 
more fun but they looked at it as I'm 
gonna keep doing this because I have a 
plan I know I know what I'm looking for 
I know what the right kind of partner 
feels like for me and I'm Gonna Keep 
dating until that person comes into my 
life no matter how long it takes and I'm 
gonna choose to focus on what's good so 
they both went on lots of dates of 
people that were not good fits but they 
didn't let those bad dates if they ever 
determine their outcome and have them 
quit or give up they're like okay well 
just that wasn't a great date but next 
who do I meet next 
and they kept going and they chose to 
like the process because they knew that 
the process was there to help them 
it's so true and if you're listening to 
this and you've tried you know if you've 
tried all these things or maybe you're 
working with us already at this point 
sometimes what people will say like when 
well it's happening for everybody else 
around me why isn't it happening for me 
and what I want to tell you is that 
thought in and of itself is going to set 
you back right just pull yourself into 
not woe is me I've been doing this for 
five months or two years or three years 
and why is everybody else having success 
why are these two other people engaged 
and I'm not engaged remember what they 
did really well and what I know you're 
going to do really well is say you know 
what my time will come when my time is 
right and I am going to continue to have 
fun dating and I'm going to continue to 
be positive about dating I am not going 
to fear rejection I am not going to 
ignore red flags and love is out there 
for me it's a when it's not an if so 
what I want you to do is put yourself in 
this state of psychotic optimism I want 
you to take that mindset because 
comparing yourself to others is a recipe 
for misery and depression in any way 
shape or form oh she's got this kind of 
car oh my God she looks like this she's 
the size he's got you know he's got you 
know he just made partner at work 
whatever that is comparison is the thief 
of Joy yes 
and on top of that this you know they 
say that unmet expectations 
is the definition of unhappiness and so 
what that really is coming down to is if 
you have an expectation that you were 
supposed to put yourself online right 
away and find love and then that didn't 
happen after the first or second meeting 
then you're starting to feel more and 
more unhappy and what happens what we 
think influences the way that we feel 
and the kinds of actions that we're 
going to take so if you're in that 
mindset and you're feeling like you know 
what oh my gosh it is not going to 
happen for me and dating this sucks and 
this is terrible and this is such a 
chore and everybody out there is 
horrible 
what happens you get on the site and you 
will start to filter and you will only 
see people that are going to prove that 
that's that you're right our brains like 
to be right we're going to start to look 
for evidence to support that everybody 
on the site then is terrible and awful 
and a waste of your time then that's 
going to bring your energy down further 
so what's that going to do you're going 
to get into that place where you're not 
even going to want to get online anymore 
you're gonna give up you're going to 
stop looking and then that's where you 
get stuck and so what we're going to 
tell you is you have a lot more power 
and agency over this you have a chance 
to sort of before you get on the site 
put if it's a Post-It note on your 
computer whatever it is that lifts you 
up it's love is out there for me it's it 
when it's not enough 
and then when you get onto the site 
you're like I'm what am I going to find 
today what am I going to learn new today 
somebody's going to pop up who's not 
going to be a good fit we are not 
creating a story around that person 
we're just going to delete them move on 
and look at who can we find today look 
at this like hunting be excited there 
are more good people out there than 
there are bad 
there are more good than that 100 and I 
think I've told this story before and 
I'll say it again because repetition is 
the key to making changes it's if you 
get online and all you see are like ugh 
ugh ugh I hate everybody chances are 
you're not in the right mindset right 
when you get on and you've got that 
gloom and doom like okay everybody looks 
like they were just sprung out of prison 
or these all look like Russian mail 
order brides that are catfishes no you 
know what call us we'll help you through 
that tunnel call a friend you need 
somebody to be objective with you 
because when we have those gray lenses 
on if our mindset is like okay this is a 
chore everyone sucks I hate this you 
look at the world with gray lenses and 
you'll look at your match or your hinge 
or your Bumble or your Tinder or your 
coffee meets bagel with those same gray 
lenses so all of this I often say and 
Lindsay's heard me use this analogy that 
successful dating and the secrets to 
dating there isn't just one it's like 
when you put your key in the ignition to 
your car right and the car starts 
there's a boatload of things that happen 
underneath that engine I don't know what 
they are I'm not a car person but I know 
that there's pistons and there's spark 
plugs and there's gas and there's this 
and there's that and there's you know 
um what I forget really there are no 
Mufflers I just learned 
there's combustion there's a whole bunch 
of [ __ ] going on right and right I and 
and I just know that there's a lot of 
magic that happens all at the same time 
that makes my car go into reverse so I 
can get out of my driveway and dating 
guys is so much of the same thing 
there's a lot of magic that has to 
happen inside and outside to get this 
train to get that car to reverse out of 
the driveway and then go straight into 
Love Lane so yes oh I love the analogy 
so we're going to take that car into 
Love Lane but know that so much of 
everything so much of everything in life 
okay and I'm gonna go have an Oprah 
moment now comes from how we think about 
things 
yes if the human brain cannot 
distinguish between something we imagine 
and something that truly happens why do 
Olympic athletes so much of their time 
isn't just spent skiing up and down the 
hill up down up down it's spent 
visualizing what would happen when I get 
into this pickle and things don't go 
well what would I do what am I going to 
feel like when I overtake everybody and 
I'm in front and What's It Gonna feel 
like to cross that Finish Line ass right 
Lindsay you tell this great story of 
power posing before your tennis matches 
and what that did for you tell us about 
that oh my goodness oh oh gosh we used 
to talk about that I love it I used to 
when I was playing in a Tennis League I 
would have a very special routine before 
I'd play my match where I would first I 
would on my way get into the right 
mindset by listening to my favorite song 
on the drive there and then before I 
would get there I would stand really 
tall and I'd put my racket above my head 
and I would power pose my way through 
now here's the interesting thing we 
don't and I don't want to get on that 
trail we don't know necessarily if power 
posing works or not but here's the key 
to it I thought it was magic I believed 
in my head that this worked that if I 
stood and stood tall and felt Victorious 
that I would win my matches and then I'd 
get in the right mindset where I'd feel 
confident I'd feel happy I'd feel secure 
I feel like I did all the little things 
I needed to do to win and then I started 
winning my tennis matches now 
it was not necessarily because I'm an 
amazing tennis player because I am not 
an amazing tennis player at all it was 
that I had the confidence and enthusiasm 
when I was playing that I felt like I 
was a winner and I acted like a winner 
and there's a lot with that with dating 
100 and I do believe for a variety of 
reasons power posing 100 works okay and 
so put your mind in the right place if 
you don't know about power posing Amy 
Cuddy's Ted Talk on power posing is 
amazing it's still one of my favorites 
Lindsay and I went to go see her on 
Lindsay's birthday give a talk about her 
book presence it's amazing I did start 
winning after I did it so when we went 
to that Ted Talk I remember oh 100 and 
before I did my own Ted Talk I'll tell 
you there were some Wonder Woman power 
posing going on behind the scenes 
because it's scary to do things and when 
you put your arms out and you take up 
space that will help to get your mind 
into place and if you are feeling 
anxious about something if you're 
feeling nervous just tell yourself I 
belong here right this is going to go 
great rate and power pose the heck out 
of your body and you're gonna feel like 
you're in a great place so remember what 
you feel determines what you think 
determines what you feel and how you 
feel determines what you act the way 
you're going to act so why the hell not 
think love is out there for me it's a 
one not an if and those of you who have 
been following us for a long time know 
that during 2020 we did Instagram lives 
if not once a week every Thursday 
multiple times a week just to be a 
bright light and to bring people 
together in a community that could talk 
to each other and I remember one day I 
was reiterating psychotic optimism and 
the message love will come to me it's a 
when not an if and I was on a tear and I 
was like all right I want you guys to 
take a red lipstick take your favorite 
Berry red lipstick and write it on your 
bathroom mirror in red lipstick and send 
it to me and I will posted in my story 
and I will tell you so many of you wrote 
it in red lipstick on your mirrors 
because you would look at it every day 
in that powerful red on your mirror like 
a badass and I couldn't believe it and 
people said oh my God it makes me feel 
powerful every time I look in the mirror 
because I see it in blazened in red 
lipstick across my mirror do it do the 
thing that's going to remind you that 
you are a rock star you are a badass and 
you are psychotically optimistic and you 
know that love will come to you it's a 
when it's not an if so absolutely so 
I'm gonna change gears 
that is my favorite topic to talk about 
mindset and psychotic optimism but only 
rivaled potentially by 
yeah 
red flags 
and one of the red flags that Lindsay 
has seen so often when she's coaching 
clients long term is 
old trauma okay and we'll talk a little 
bit about what that means because I'm 
going to ask her Ultra shows up in new 
relationships tell us about this I look 
at it like old trauma could mean new 
drama 
say it again for the people trauma could 
mean new drama 
and new drama for you if 
look if that person has not addressed 
their past and they haven't been 
actively working on it 
and what I mean by that is listen all of 
us everybody has their something part of 
the human experience is for us to go 
through things that are difficult so we 
are we all have that in us but it's 
really looking at what pay attention to 
what somebody tells you up front in the 
beginning about their past and the more 
stuff there is the more time I want you 
to build into dating them 
the more I want you to give it space to 
make sure that these patterns from their 
past do not show up in the new 
relationship and I'll give you an 
example with that I think there's a lot 
of 
I think that in the up front before 
somebody really knows you before they're 
invested in you I find that people tend 
to be much more of an open book and they 
share a lot about where they're coming 
from very like openly so if somebody 
tells you right away for example if they 
have had 
kind of the worst thing happened where 
they've been abandoned by a parent when 
they're young 
or if somebody was never around or if 
there was a lot of abuse or a lot of 
alcohol in their house growing up and 
things like that you will want to really 
make sure that you see that that person 
hasn't been so deeply affected that they 
haven't internalized that behavior where 
they now behave in the same way of the 
traumatic patterns they've seen at home 
or if how their attachment Styles have 
been affected by it do they are they if 
they've been left by a parent do they 
also become avoidant I know this is deep 
deeper stuff but you really want to look 
at what somebody tells you and then dig 
in you don't need to dig in on the first 
date or the second date 
this is the kind of stuff that you 
really want to give time to make sure 
that you that you ask those questions 
over time have you you know did they see 
a therapist have they been working on it 
have they talked to people about it are 
they aware of what it is 
there's a lot and let me tell you 
something and all the new data that's 
come out post coven 
shows that one of the sexiest things 
that we can say that we do is be in 
therapy 
okay that mental health is so important 
to the majority of singles that are 
dating right think about it if you're 
going on a date and somebody's like this 
is what I've been through but I'm in 
therapy and I'm working on it how 
attractive is that it means I know that 
I can't choose my family's of origin I 
knew that I can't choose the stuff that 
happens to me good or bad sometimes but 
I'll tell you that I'm doing my work to 
make peace with it I'm doing my work to 
put it in the right place in my brain 
that doesn't make me reenact those 
traumas again and again and again so 
it's okay and if you're listening to 
this going well [ __ ] I've had a lot of 
trauma am I a red flag not necessarily 
in fact I'm giving you a big hug you're 
not a red flag and especially if you're 
listening to this podcast I know that 
you're invested in growing I know that 
you're not not looking for you know 
somebody that's going to tell you go out 
and put some lipstick on and have a 
great date right this is not Lipstick On 
a Pig this is very much like let's work 
on our stuff let's get better we're 
investing in our growth and so many of 
our clients that you know they're in 
coaching and they're concurrently in 
therapy and they're like do I need to do 
both I'm like yes it takes the damn 
Village to find love people okay it 
really does and and and know that and 
know that just because somebody has had 
trauma it doesn't necessarily red flag 
them it means what are they doing to put 
to make peace with it what are they 
doing to be a healthy partner that can 
have a healthy attachment to you where 
they don't have a run reflex yes or 
things get hard that they're like oh my 
God relationships as soon as there's 
conflict they just want to bolt that's 
not a good sign and somebody who has 
been in therapy understands that 
conflict is inevitable with two people 
if you have a dating relationship you 
have a marriage you have a colleague 
relationship you have a French friend 
any a best friend a child if you don't 
have Conflict at a certain point 
somebody's giving in all the time and if 
you look at that conflict as I want to 
use this not to win anytime you look at 
conflict as a zero-sum game I want to 
win so you lose you will destroy the 
relationship when you look at this as 
let me take this conflict to resolve it 
to get us both to a better place you 
will navigate the conflict gently but if 
it's a win-lose dynamic I will tell you 
what every time somebody walks into a 
conversation or a date or a relationship 
saying I want to be right you might 
intellectually be right but what you've 
done is put a paper cut on that person 
yes yeah right and you don't want death 
by a thousand paper cuts because that 
ain't a good way to die or to kill 
somebody right um when you're in a 
healthy relationship with somebody and 
you you've reached that point where look 
we talk about how you want people to 
earn your story 
so if you've had a lot of things in your 
past you do not need to lay it out on 
the table on a on the first few dates 
with somebody that's still a stranger 
this person needs to earn that and give 
give that time and really make sure that 
they are a safe place for you to share 
what happened but when you build a 
relationship and you're in a healthy 
relationship part of this is you start 
to learn what are the things that could 
be potential triggers for your partner 
what are Old Wounds that have hurt them 
from their past and you learn how to 
avoid those as gently as you can so that 
their old instincts don't get triggered 
and you talk about that and you 
negotiate new work through that as a 
couple so you know gosh my person is 
going to be really really sensitive if I 
don't check in with them if they don't 
get that good night 
phone call from me at the end of the day 
because to them if they don't get it 
they might feel abandoned and so you 
know it is two seconds of my time to 
give them that little good night 
check-in and I want them to feel secure 
and I want them to feel safe and you 
make those choices to do those things to 
help your partner along 
no that's so true that's so true and I 
can just say on a personal note having 
one that just left for college 10 days 
ago I wish she called me every single 
day but I know in my mind that if she 
called me every single day it would be 
because she wasn't happy at school so I 
am letting that relationship 
go to where it should be where and it's 
really funny that as I was thinking this 
morning man I wish I would hear from her 
while we were recording this podcast I 
saw my cell phone ring from her so guys 
you know what 
relationships are always 
something that's being navigated right 
and and so understand right I have 
Trauma from dropping a kid off last week 
and I'm sure many of you listening to 
this understand that trauma and it is 
traumatic when it's your first right but 
right maybe I need to talk to my 
therapist about the trauma of this and 
grow from it but I'm trying to be a good 
mom and let her spread her wings because 
I know we raise children to be 
independent right and when they're 
independent it can be like oh don't they 
need me but that's my own stuff so you 
need to get in touch with your own 
traumas like me and you and all of us 
and and deal with those and also be 
gentle but listen for people that have 
had trauma it doesn't mean you 
necessarily throw them back to the curb 
in the dating world but what are they 
doing to deal with the trauma and if 
they are not open to Growing to therapy 
to coaching that's where we will help 
you navigate this and that person might 
not be the best bet for you it's like 
you can't teach an old dog new tricks I 
don't believe that you can teach any dog 
a trick if the dog wants to learn 
absolutely absolutely 
so 
and I think with that too I think we 
talk about when you are in a new 
relationship but just about we talk a 
lot about getting Clarity too and 
learning and understanding where 
somebody's coming at and not making 
assumptions just based on things in our 
past 
about what somebody where somebody's at 
or what they want so I think another big 
point we wanted to make today is just 
never assume dear daters 
just ask just ask 
just ask if you want to know something 
ask the question if you don't know where 
this person stands if you don't know if 
they're looking for a relationship that 
leads to marriage if you don't know if 
they're That Into You ask the question 
be courageous and when you ask it from a 
place of authenticity sincerity and you 
want to know 
it's not too much right sometimes people 
will say well I asked I told this person 
you know I'm really I don't want this to 
come off badly but I am looking for a 
relationship that could ultimately lead 
to marriage is that something that 
you're interested in as well and if that 
person says with the right person 
absolutely that's good put yourself at 
ease be true to yourself and if you 
don't know something ask the question of 
the person and when you ask it in the 
right way Lindsay wouldn't you agree it 
won't be too soon 
no it really isn't and I think it helps 
also Define good clear communication 
early on which is one of the Hallmarks 
of a healthy relationship and it's 
asking from we always say assume the 
best intention 
put yourself when we're going and this 
is all all these things get layered 
together I think this is where 
Collective dating advice it's a lot of 
different things it's the car analogy 
that Bella was saying too it's very much 
assuming assume the best intention but 
don't write the story for them if you're 
not sure so it's putting asking for 
clarity if they say you know I just want 
to date really slowly I'm just looking 
for friends first 
like okay uh and that could that could 
be a red flag meaning they may not be 
ready for a relationship that's one way 
or it could just mean this is somebody 
when they're dating they don't want to 
rush into a quick relationship like 
they've done in the past and they're 
taking things more slowly so you can 
always come from things with the place 
of curiosity and just say well yeah I'm 
curious so what does that mean to you 
what does dating at like friends first 
look like for you and come at it from a 
place of I could learn something new but 
I just want to check because my 
interpretation of that and your 
interpretation of that could be very 
very different 
amen absolutely well said and speaking 
of assuming 
this is a big old assumption everybody's 
making in the dating world 
let me tell you 
Let's Talk About Sex let's talk about 
sex 
I can't hear that phrase and not sing 
the song 
so sex changes everything it changes 
everything and 
and 
sleeping together too soon 
when you're not ready 
potentially will lead to not great 
things tell us about that oh I think 
this is another one we talk about sex 
with our clients every single week 
because we Bella and I are old school 
and we tell our clients it's exclusivity 
it is wait to sleep with somebody until 
you're in an exclusive relationship and 
the reason we're doing that is not 
because we're prudes but it's because we 
want to make sure it goes back to that 
first thing of giving things really time 
to see who somebody is and making sure 
that you are not missing red flags in 
the beginning and as soon if you jump 
into bed too soon and you get flooded 
with all those amazing hormones and the 
oxytocin the dopamine and the attachment 
kicks in it's really really hard to see 
the red flags and you get attached and 
then as soon as you're sleeping with 
somebody it's really hard to date other 
people so then your pipeline goes away 
because it feels awkward to them be 
going on a date with somebody if you're 
sleeping with somebody the next night 
and so then you also lose that extra 
guard rail of making sure that you're 
comparing and contrasting behavior and 
then all of a sudden you can fall into 
instant relationship mode and it gets 
really really really tricky so one of 
the biggest things we help our clients 
navigate is how do you Pace your dating 
so that you can give enough time but you 
can also make sure the attraction is 
growing and that when the question 
inevitably does come up about sex or 
when over the third date you get invited 
to his house for dinner which happens on 
the third and fourth date almost 
consistently everybody always wants to 
have somebody over for dinner on the 
third or fourth date 
that you know how to navigate that and 
you know how to keep things going but 
not jump into bed too soon 
that's I couldn't have said it any 
better so just get to know each other 
slowly and surely and you don't need to 
have sex with someone right away just to 
make sure that you're compatible in bed 
what makes you most compatible and bad 
ladies and gentlemen is a strong 
emotional connection a strong level of 
trust and a strong friendship where if 
something does go a little sideways you 
feel comfortable saying hey could we try 
blah blah blah if you don't feel like 
you can talk about sex with this person 
it's way too soon to be having sex with 
them and I think if you don't want to 
ascribe to sex exclusivity or a number 
of dates you know we've got the episode 
on the 15-day rule with Sylvia which 
worked very well for her if you are not 
comfortable talking to this person if it 
wasn't good ask yourself the question 
should I be doing this at all or is it 
too soon do we need to have a depth of a 
relationship because typically what we 
hear from our clients when they date 
slowly when they look for an elevator 
person when they make sure that there's 
no smoke there's no fire when there are 
no red flags they let this proceed 
slowly over three months over four 
months they have the best sex of their 
lives yes 
yes 
yes because a big component of that is 
trust and feeling comfortable and let's 
I think the 
let's face it especially as you start 
dating and you get a little older our 
bodies are changing and people have had 
different experiences or they've been 
married a long time and they're 
terrified and so there's a lot that goes 
into this and what I see from the men 
that I work if they really like somebody 
and it's too soon they get in their 
heads and as soon as they're in their 
heads not everything else always works 
properly so anxiety can build so you 
need to be in a place where you really 
trust and you're more invested so you 
can work through those little hiccups 
that can happen initially in the 
beginning to lead to what ultimately 
happens to be really excellent 
fulfilling wonderful sexual lives 
together but it takes time to get there 
and everyone is such a hurry to test 
that out and remember that myth we 
talked about in the beginning um with 
the last episode is that often people 
think that idea that you have to have 
instant 
chemistry is going to translate into an 
amazing sex life 
and it doesn't 
and that is simply not the case not at 
all not true and 
and I think with that I love this end 
cap of surrounding yourself with people 
that are good for you tell us about that 
oh the people around you shape Who You 
Are you are the combination of The Five 
People You spend the most time with 
and when it comes to finding love you 
want to make sure that you are 
surrounded by people who are incredibly 
purging and supportive of this journey 
they are positive they build you up that 
they tell you what's good about you 
and that they are not going to sit and 
tell you about all the terrible daters 
out there and how or horrible dating is 
and how everybody's crazy and have 
everyone get together and share all 
their bad stories because when you do 
that you've all been in that situation 
where you've had that brunch on a Sunday 
morning and everybody complains the 
whole energy collectively just goes down 
100 percent 
so you want to have people around you 
that are supportive that are encouraging 
that want the best for you and will 
Elevate you and support you through this 
journey and if this sounds like 
something you need and you don't have in 
your life 
reach out to us we're here for you we've 
got our magic wands and our crowns and 
we want you to be our next engagement 
and we know you can be or just to find 
the lid to your pot a companion to go to 
the symphony with to play a game of 
pickleball with whatever it is so 
Lindsay thank you for imparting your 
deep wisdom with us grateful and we will 
certainly have you back all the time so 
I'm ready Applause for you and smart 
daters until next week we bid you 
farewell and give you a big giant 
psychotically optimistic hug until then 
have a great week 


arielle ford tell me it's a giant 
question in your definition what is love 
the most important thing to really begin 
to understand 
is that love is not a feeling and even 
if you end up with the most perfect soul 
mate in the universe there are days when 
you're going to hate them and it doesn't 
mean that you don't love them so coming 
to the understanding that real mature 
adult love is behavior is critical to 
the success 
of having a lot you know having a 
long-term happy committed partnership 
love is an action it is a decision it is 
a behavior it is not a feeling that 
feeling that hollywood and bollywood and 
harlequin and social media there should 
be love at first sight instant chemistry 
and she's telling you that is nature's 
way of tricking us into attachment 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
hi everybody 
I am so excited about today's episode 
excited because who doesn't want to talk 
about getting back into the dating world 
after or even during a divorce okay and 
it's one of the biggest questions we 
have the a vast majority of our clients 
have been through divorce are going 
through divorce maybe maybe you're still 
married and you're thinking about you're 
dreaming about divorce and you're 
already dreaming about the new lid do 
your pot well I can tell you that 
today's guest is not only an incredible 
divorce attorney but she's also an 
incredible friend of mine and I feel 
incredibly blessed to have her here so I 
want to Welcome to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast 
Susan Guthrie Esquire 
hi Bella hi Bella's listeners thank you 
so much for being here today and for 
those of you who have followed Smart 
dating Academy and maybe you've seen my 
Instagram live show but you've seen 
Susan on there Susan Guthrie is a has 
been a leading family law attorney and a 
mediator she's on the executive Council 
of the American Bar Association which is 
huge Susan has done billion dollar 
divorces let's just go there we're going 
to roll our sleeves up you guys we're 
taking it all off for this episode 
um and not only did she go from being an 
attorney to being an entrepreneur and a 
mediator but she trains attorneys in 
mediation to make things more pleasant 
and maybe you know less painful Susan 
you can tell us about that and she's got 
one of my favorite podcasts as well 
called divorce and Beyond so give Susan 
a big Round of Applause yay for being 
here with us today we're so excited 
Susan and tell us about dating and 
divorce and all of the things we're just 
gonna eat all of this up I love this 
Bella thank you so much for having me on 
and I love talking about this because 
it's it's like the intersection of our 
worlds right yes 
I mean divorce leads to dating 
sometimes dating leads to divorce 
um you get more times than we care to 
think I think but I think it's a really 
interesting topic for people because as 
you and I know people who are going 
through divorce are often thinking about 
dating 
um it's like the end of that 
relationship has led them to a point 
where they're starting to wonder when 
and if they can get back out there yeah 
it fills people with trepidation I know 
when I get people well we get people at 
Smart dating Academy that are going 
through divorces right they're separated 
and there have been occasions where I've 
called Susan saying could this person 
actually be out there in online dating 
right and I'm sometimes surprised at 
what the answers are when they're high 
profile divorces but you know we can 
talk about that in a minute but I think 
divorce if this is you know we're taping 
this right now at the end of December in 
January is the biggest month for dating 
but it's also the biggest month for 
divorces and what I learned recently is 
what does that mean it means the Monday 
after the holidays is the time when the 
most divorce attorneys phones light up 
with couples that are calling saying I 
can't take it anymore I'm done game over 
it's probably I survived one more 
Christmas and every time I looked at 
this person I knew I was d-o-n-e done 
you know it's it's something I've 
noticed I've been a divorce attorney for 
32 years and every year in January you 
just knew that as soon as you came back 
to the office after the holidays you 
just knew the phone was going to start 
ringing off of the hook and in fact this 
year it's actually already started 
anecdotally what I'm hearing from 
colleagues across the country is many 
people unfortunately didn't even make it 
through the holiday season and the 
Outreach has already started so yes but 
they do say that Monday after New Year's 
Day is divorce day we call it D Day 
exactly D-Day D-Day and and when people 
call you or let's say they they kick the 
you know they sort of start the process 
off what is the most surprising question 
that you or divorce attorneys get in 
these initial consultations 
you know it's funny I love that question 
thank you because it's like normally 
people want to know and the ones we 
usually hear you know how do I protect 
my finances what's the parenting plan 
gonna look like all that but the 
question that we get that I think 
surprises people the most and it used to 
surprise me every time someone asked it 
because I was like here they are talking 
to me about getting divorced and that 
almost every consultation a divorce 
attorney is going to hear when can I 
start dating 
can I date when can I get out there is 
it okay if I'm dating I'm already dating 
is that okay so it's really an interest 
interesting juxtaposition right because 
here's somebody who's ending their 
marriage but also in a place where 
mentally or at least in some way they're 
also thinking about can I get back out 
there right and like your podcast is 
called divorce and Beyond right like I'm 
thinking about by my divorce which is 
ultimately going to lead me to my Beyond 
so to me it makes perfect sense that as 
they think about ending this chapter of 
their lives and let's face it nobody 
gets divorced if there hasn't been a lot 
of pain already like you don't get 
driven to divorce because you know you 
got a paper cut yesterday right there's 
been a lot a lot a lot of stuff Brewing 
so that makes it makes a lot of sense to 
me and do you find that men ask you 
about that more than women or what what 
do you see with that I'm curious 
you know that's an interesting thought 
um I would say it's really more 
in almost every divorce you will see as 
you just said one of the people has been 
thinking about divorce for a long time 
in fact 
um my friend Aaron Levine of hello 
divorce mentioned on a podcast episode 
recently that statistics say before 
someone asks their spouse or tells their 
spouse they want a divorce they've often 
been thinking about it for up to four 
years four years where this has been top 
of mind so that person whether it be 
male or female the husband or the wife 
that is the person who usually is more 
than ready to get back out there 
often if the concept of divorce is newer 
to one of the parties that person uh is 
definitely you know that's the person we 
we the other statement we hear in a 
divorce attorney's office all the time 
is I'm never getting married again right 
game over yeah I'm done that's it never 
again am I doing this so we have both of 
those when can I date and the other 
person's usually I'm never getting 
married again that's I can totally 
understand both sides to that and now 
now if that's so interesting that that's 
you know one of the most common 
questions you get is when can I date so 
tell us the answer to that question when 
can they date Susan Guthrie yeah well 
and you know this is tricky because and 
I I know you get this when you talk to 
your clients there's an aspect to this 
answer that they don't want to hear 
because if they're asking that question 
really what people want to hear is I'll 
go ahead and do whatever you want and so 
I always explain there are really two 
answers to this question there's a legal 
answer and then there's the real 
practical answer and the real the legal 
answers you know really the easy one 
because 
for the most part from a legal 
perspective 
it just doesn't matter if you're dating 
okay right okay I mean 
bottom line if you start dating after 
your relationship has already ended or 
your divorce has hit that your marriage 
has hit the point of divorce you're 
dating you're being out there and 
meeting new people is a byproduct of 
that not the cause of the marriage 
breakdown right and that's what courts 
are interested in what caused the 
breakdown of the marriage and people 
like to think it's well my my spouse has 
a new boyfriend or girlfriend but the 
reality is happily married people don't 
date right or they don't or because you 
tell me each other that's right they 
date hopefully it's the yeah the the 
marital dating so from that legal 
perspective that's the answer the 
clients want to hear right yeah like 
have at it it doesn't matter from a 
legal perspective there is one little 
twist to it that if you go out and start 
spending exorbitant money on your as we 
like to say in the legal field Paramore 
yes 
then that money you know might get 
carved back in because you're basically 
spending 50 cents of your of every 
dollar that belongs to your spouse so 
the easy answer legally is probably 
doesn't matter but then there's the 
Practical answer and that's the one 
people don't want to hear 
oh let's go there okay I'm gonna dive in 
and tell you that is a hugely bad idea 
to date during your divorce for a lot of 
reasons I'm not saying you can't do it I 
am saying that there are a number of 
complications that will arise 
immediately when you start to introduce 
dating or a new person or a Paramore 
into your life 
oh I can imagine how that would just not 
make things any easier especially if 
you're the one that was dealt the blow 
right that you you know if it was me 
let's say and my husband if I found out 
he'd been thinking about it for four 
years and suddenly you know I get a 
little FedEx packet in the mail or 
whatever it is and serve with papers and 
if he was like Hey how do you feel about 
me starting to date I'd have a few 
probably Choice words at that point not 
even you know it's right right now I 
feel like I had been mushroom clouded 
and I wouldn't even be able to process 
that and that would just tell me it 
would make me think have you already 
been dating somebody or have you been 
cheating on me like it would so I can 
100 understand why that would be an 
emotional cataclysm no it's an emotional 
bomb I mean it is truly at a time when 
emotions are already high right that it 
will it will just explode the situation 
and ramp it up to the umpteenth level 
and you're a 100 correct that the person 
who has been or has felt blindsided or 
surprised by this whole concept of 
divorce uh that person will start to 
look at it as exactly that proof that 
you were cheating or that trust should 
not be extended which only makes the 
divorce process harder but I've also 
seen the phenomena the other way around 
where somebody has decided has been 
thinking for those four years about 
divorce tells their spouse it's time to 
get divorced and then that spouse goes 
out and finds a new person or starts 
dating and I call it the I don't want 
him but you can't have them syndrome it 
can also set off World War III there's 
something inherently 
territorial in human beings and this 
probably goes back to some things you 
and I have talked about about our hunter 
gatherer 
um you know backgrounds of the 
Neanderthals but the minute a new third 
party gets introduced into your 
complicated two-person divorce 
everything becomes much more complicated 
the emotions become much more 
complicated 
the issues of what happened before 
What's Happening Now money that's 
getting spent your kids it's uh it truly 
is a ticking time bomb 
yeah I mean there's so much around what 
you're saying that it was I'm sure 
resonates with so many people and 
resonates with us even through the 
dating process because if you think 
about 
dating right after you announce a 
divorce the question one of the things I 
always tell people when they ask me am I 
ready to date it's have you done your 
work have you looked inside and taken a 
breath like give it five minutes like 
what just happened over here why did I 
think you were the perfect lid to my pot 
and now I want to put that lid in the 
incinerator or send it to the garbage 
dump like wait a second how do I make 
sure I don't do that again because Susan 
and I talk about these statistics that 
we share with the people that we work 
with for those of you who don't know 
this fifty percent of first marriages 
end in divorce but what happens when we 
get up we dust off and we try it again 
67 
of those marriages end in divorce that 
is two out of three imagine two out of 
three couples two go down okay and now 
for those brave souls that give it a 
third shot like all right they're 
incorrigible you can't keep them down 
three out of four of those 74 of third 
marriages end in divorce so when you 
don't stop to do actually say what was 
my part in this because even if the bomb 
was handed to you right someone else 
detonated it what how did you how did 
you get blindsided how did you not know 
this was coming how did you think things 
were okay or how did you stay in 
something for so long that wasn't okay 
did you ignore red flags even in the 
dating process it's it's astounding to 
me when I ask my clients to come in post 
divorce I when you were with your ex 
when did you first see these red flags 
they're like oh right away 
ten years ago ten years ago and yet I 
stayed in it and I thought it would get 
better that you know maybe we had kids 
or we moved here and you're what I can 
tell you guys is your issues that you 
have with someone when you're dating 
them they kind of stay your issues when 
you're married 
would you agree with that Susan oh they 
actually I think and I can only speak 
anecdotally from the people that I've 
represented a divorce and having been 
married myself is I think they get a 
little bit worse those little those 
little quirks that people have 
absolutely 
right and so if you're seeing these 
kinds of things and let's say maybe 
you're the single person who's listening 
and you're out there dating and you've 
been recently divorced or you kind of 
thought okay I know how to do this right 
really think twice about this think 
three times I would say measure twice 
and cut once and really make sure that 
you have done a deep dive with some help 
therapy massive right why did I pick 
that person why did I stay with that X 
right you got to do a little you've got 
to do a look in the rear view mirror 
right even when you're driving to still 
make sure that you're going in the right 
direction forward you've got to look at 
what led me to this person what told me 
this was a good idea for me and 
understand who was I then versus who am 
I now and who do I want to be with this 
time around to make sure that you know 
the green flags for a good partner 
versus sticking with the same red flags 
that you might just be comfortable with 
yeah I mean that's so it's it's such a 
great point that I mean think about this 
right you're sitting in a divorce 
attorney's office talking about ending a 
long-term committed relationship and in 
your mind you're already talking about 
going out and dating the divorce process 
is difficult I don't care whether you're 
having the most amicable divorce in the 
world or War of the Roses it is a 
difficult process and then you're 
talking about all the things that Bella 
works with her clients to do to work on 
you know what's happened in the past to 
work on finding the right person as they 
go forward to get out there and be 
psychotically optimistic about finding 
someone new how do you even contemplate 
putting the energy that that process 
deserves into it when you are going 
through a divorce process when you are 
working through all of the life-changing 
issues that must be faced and dealt with 
and discussed and negotiated as you go 
through that process and you're trying 
to get to know somebody else to 
determine whether or not they're the new 
lid to your pot it's mind-boggling if 
you really want to take that high level 
10 000 you know yeah foot view of this 
and yet people want to do it all the 
time 
and I think the real driver here to your 
point they want to do it right away 
because we're trying to fill a void 
right divorce when I talk to my clients 
it's probably for ubiquitously the the 
hardest thing that they've ever gone 
through right and and to think about 
just and that leaves a big hole and it 
leaves a void right even if it wasn't a 
happy marriage you're still half right 
and maybe if you're co-parenting you 
have kids there's a whole new way that 
this partnership is going to show up for 
you right and how do you even co-parent 
and integrate this this old person your 
ex into a life with a new person right 
there's so much around this but just 
brass tacks while we're talking about 
dating with children one of the things I 
tell people is especially when you're so 
excited and you want to fill that void 
and people tend to fast forward and want 
to get into something super fast and 
bypass the whole dating process and the 
screening process and one thing that 
happens is children can become 
collateral damage in that when you're 
rushing to fill that void rushing to 
bring someone home on the fourth date 
right kids especially young kids can get 
attached to to your new boo so quickly 
and if it turns out the boo becomes a 
ghost at a certain point kids are like 
wait we lost mom or dad and now we've 
lost this person right so you want to be 
super careful my general rule of thumb 
with dating after divorce is weight a 
minimum of six months post exclusivity 
before you introduce this person to your 
children and I know a lot of divorce 
agreements now have this kind of stuff 
spelled out very concretely that you 
cannot bring a new person around the 
kids until a certain point 
yeah that's a great point and and we do 
see that language and that's actually 
you've you've picked sort of the the 
typical language we see people will 
negotiate a time period that a 
relationship has to have gone on before 
children can be introduced to a new 
significant other my one caution about 
that 
um is that that's very focused on the 
adults and how they feel and what they 
want and the reality is 
maybe six months isn't long enough for 
your kids to be ready for for mom or dad 
to be in a new relationship I mean you 
talked about a very common situation 
where a parent will get into a 
relationship that's very exciting and 
new but kind of like over quickly we see 
that a lot in the divorce world where 
somebody you probably have a fabulous 
term for it the but it's it's like I'm 
not even sure what but they they get 
very excited they think this is their 
new person this is gonna be it and like 
it's oh it Flames out very quickly but 
they introduce their kids yeah and 
that's tough for kids right they got 
used to your flame before they flamed 
out but there's also just those 
situations where kids are already going 
through a lot when Mom and Dad or Mom 
and Mom and Dad and Dad are splitting up 
they're dealing with a lot and all of a 
sudden you are adding another person 
another element into their complicated 
little lives and if you want to be truly 
child centered it's not about how long 
you've been dating that person or how 
you feel about that person it's about 
whether or not your kids are ready for 
that person to be a part of their lives 
and I encourage parents to really turn 
that around and look at it through their 
kids lives there's a movie out there 
called split it's a documentary filmed 
by my friend Ellen Bruno and it's 
interviews with children from their 
perspective about what the divorce 
experience was like and there's a few 
children who talk about what it was like 
to meet a parent's new person uh new 
significant other and that will change 
forever how you consider that process 
and how you might want to introduce new 
people into your children's lives so I 
encourage everyone to go watch that 
movie before you bring someone new into 
your kids lives yeah absolutely Susan 
and I know one of the things that you 
tell people and as we were talking about 
this segment it's in addition to you 
know being really careful when you're 
out there dating because it's going to 
be an emotional issue with your ex and 
not spending exorbitant amounts of money 
because that's going to lead you into 
another you know ball of bowl of hot 
soup but also not flaunting things on 
social media right here's me and my new 
boo and Aruba uh hold on 
do not first of all probably not a great 
idea to go to Aruba with the new boo now 
you're going to get into that whole 
spending money and and here's the thing 
I'll just say to that spending of the 
money the very first thing I always hear 
from a client is well she paid for 
everything the girlfriend paid for 
everything I didn't pay anything just 
because you say it doesn't mean the 
other side's gonna believe it so we're 
still gonna go through the back and 
forth of them wanting to see all of the 
credit card statements and the bank 
statements to prove that you didn't 
spend any money and what did you just do 
you just spend a lot of time and money 
on an issue that you created by going to 
Aruba with your boot so don't go to a 
room with your boo but you're absolutely 
right everybody these days lives their 
lives on social media and whether you're 
posting it or boo is posting it and 
that's really where we see this most 
often I cannot tell you how many times 
as an attorney I was blindsided in court 
by pictures from Facebook that were 
posted by the significant other that 
were not you but you know there's my 
client sitting there on his brand new 
yacht with his you know 20 years younger 
girlfriend and her glass of champagne in 
his lap and we're in court trying to say 
he can't afford to pay alimony anymore 
right I mean don't and it just ramps up 
again it ramps up that emotional content 
it puts your private life out there 
for 
everyone including your ex including 
your family and by the way including 
your children to see 
absolutely and you know Susan's not only 
an expert on family law and is giving us 
great advice but Susan also generously 
shares her own story and Susan went 
through a divorce herself and then met a 
great Boo and a great lid to her pot so 
do you want to share just a couple of 
your inspiring story with us to know 
that this can happen post-divorce oh I I 
love talking about falling in love the 
right way the the second time you know 
they always say the second time's the 
best time and it's it's so true but the 
first thing I always point out is I did 
not meet my husband until three years 
after my divorce and those three years I 
dated I dated after I got divorced a bit 
but really didn't you know didn't just I 
spent a lot of time working on why I had 
gotten into my first marriage and and 
that's all that stuff you were just 
talking about but you know it's really 
one of those things that because I put 
that time in to look at the mistakes I 
made that first time 
um I actually spent a great deal of time 
talking about and thinking about how 
horrible my my first husband was then I 
turned that around and one he's not a 
horrible person and two why did I pick 
them right why what was it and it was 
that work that I did but yeah I met uh 
pretty much the the perfect guy for me 
my Lids to my pods 
um right there he came into the came in 
through the door of my my office one day 
looking for a divorce attorney to review 
his mediated divorce agreement and 
instead of hiring me he took me out to 
dinner so right he married her 
calls second marriages the Triumph of 
Hope over experience so 
oh my gosh and Susan when you when you 
met David David had three special little 
packages that came with the deal yeah 
people say people come with baggage he 
had little suitcases three triplets 
yeah triplets and that's uh you know 
very lucky for me I got to end up being 
the Stepmom to three wonderful uh kids 
who are now grown up adult human beings 
at 24 but they were I think they were 
almost five when I met them now I want 
to point out you know very pointed to 
what we are talking about today I did 
not meet them until they were over six 
um it was over a year after David and I 
had started dating uh before the kids 
knew who I was and knew that I was in 
their dad's life 
um and you know we tried to keep that 
really slow and you know we knew by that 
time that our relationship was was a 
relationship that was going to last and 
was going to now we are 20 some odd 
years or 20 years down the road so I 
guess we were right on that but and 
that's not to say we you know we did 
everything right but I I really 
um encourage people I have seen so many 
times people filling that void because 
in that moment I mean you know I said it 
earlier divorce is hard it's emotionally 
difficult the thrill of finding someone 
new in that emotional like just oh it 
makes me you know think about falling in 
love it's a wonderful feeling right it's 
wonderful right so at a time when we're 
feeling so low isn't that attractive and 
wonderful but it's also a little 
illusory because you're really not 
thinking clearly I mean Bella can tell 
you all you know about the whole 
Neuroscience of when we are you know 
under stress which thank you divorce is 
stressful you know we're our bodies and 
our brains are emitting all these 
hormones that mean literally that you 
cannot think clearly and again you've 
got to make all these decisions about 
your divorce and now you want to add in 
this additional component of oh I don't 
know something as important as finding 
the next person who's going to be in 
your life so it's not a time to rush 
into things 
no and if you look at the look at the 
phrases that we use to Susan's point I'm 
madly in love mad means cuckoo for Cocoa 
Puffs crazy crazily in love these 
hormones like cortisol and adrenaline 
fight or flight when we're under stress 
lead us to make decisions that aren't 
always good for us because we're feeling 
threatened it's like when the 
saber-toothed tiger is going to come for 
the caveman we're just going to want to 
get out of Dodge and quick and we don't 
tend to make the best long-term 
decisions for ourselves so I think that 
if you're out there and thinking about 
dating during a divorce certainly you 
know Susan has just told us like why 
that might not be the right thing for 
you for a whole host of reasons just 
with your partner with your kids and if 
you haven't done the work yet and if 
you're dating post divorce you know 
getting guard rails around you to make 
sure that you don't end up in that 67 
percent divorce rate of second go rounds 
and 74 third rates you know just and 
Susan actually when I was first getting 
to know her told me when I said you know 
we've had zero divorces in 12 years 
she's like you should literally have a 
t-shirt that says that and put that all 
over your site and I didn't realize 
coming from a divorce attorney how 
valuable that is she's like wait what so 
we've had zero divorces so what I want 
to tell you is Be Inspired if you're 
bludgeoned post divorce and you're like 
I don't know if I can do this again the 
number one thing is you just heard from 
Susan she did her work and she found the 
lid to her pot and they've been together 
for how many years 18 years just over 18 
years 18 years like right like they yeah 
they're marriage is almost adults at 
this point so it's 18. and and so and it 
can happen but doing the work and 
investing in yourself and taking the 
time to slow things down to do it right 
the next time is so so important and I 
hope that you feel inspired and hopeful 
because you're talking here to two 
people one who has helped people 
navigate through the divorce helps 
herself navigate through divorce 
personally found the lid to her pot and 
then I help people Define the lids to 
their pot so we're spraying you right 
now with hope and inspiration and 
psychotic optimism in the new year that 
you too can do this post-divorce you 
don't have to feel so alone divorce can 
be a really lonely process sometimes in 
addition to having an X and A 
relationship blow up a lot of our 
friends end up abandoning us as well and 
that is almost more painful to some 
extent for so many of my clients when 
their friends think divorce is 
contagious and then they break up with 
them or they don't know well do I have 
to pick sides I'm just going to pick 
none of you and and disappear so there's 
so much to this so if you need support 
around this there are many places many 
podcasts you can listen to Listen to 
Susan's divorce and Beyond podcast right 
she has amazing experts on there that 
will help navigate you through the legal 
aspects and the Practical aspects of 
before during and after the divorce and 
you know feel free to Ping us as well 
we're more than happy to to walk you 
through this process in a safe fun and 
inspiring way Susan you were the best is 
there any piece of advice that you want 
to leave our listeners with to make them 
better like you're favorite tip your 
favorite piece of advice 
you know my favorite piece of advice is 
the one that I have found in this very 
past year the thing that has literally 
changed how I see every day and it's 
going to sound trite because it's it's 
everybody in the world has said it but I 
put it into practice in the past year so 
for those who are just starting a new 
year this time last year in 2021 I 
decided to do the um the Gratitude 
exercise of at the end of each day just 
finding three things to write down that 
I was grateful for and they did not have 
to be big things they could be that 
would be great but you know finding 
those three things and I swear to you it 
has changed my days changed my life 
because now as I go through my day even 
like sitting here with you Bella I can 
tell you right now being able to spend 
this time with you will be one of my 
little gratitude moments that I was 
gonna to go in my journal tonight your 
whole day turns into recognizing moments 
of gratitude and and you'll think in 
your mind when little things happen or 
you feel the sun on your face or you 
hear the kids laugh out in the other 
room you'll you'll just write down or 
think of oh that's got to go in my 
journal later on today so whether you 
you write it down or you take that 
moment just to really be in your moments 
and find those those little tiny things 
to be grateful for I I cannot tell you 
the difference it's made for me I love 
that so much and 
gratitude cannot live in the same space 
as fear and anger 
I love that and if you think about what 
Susan is saying when you are you're 
rewiring your brain to look for what's 
good during the day and you're holding 
yourself accountable to write those 
things down and the minute you start to 
look for what's good you eviscerate the 
fear that you're feeling you eviscerate 
the anger that you might be feeling 
because now you know gratitude is the 
antidote to fear and anger so there's so 
much to that and if you guys have not 
started doing it if you're not a writer 
and you don't have a journal like Susan 
I saw a great tip the other day every 
day take a scrap of paper fold it up and 
throw it into a jar and it's your 
gratitude jar and at the end of the year 
you're going to have all these folded up 
pieces of paper and on January 1st you 
can open it up like little fortunes and 
a fortune cookie and look back at the 
amazing things that have happened to you 
every single day over the past year 
I love that so we're at the your this 
episode's airing at the beginning of the 
year you guys have a whole fresh year 
ahead of you that's a wonderful way to 
to get ready and we'll see you in 2023 
we can hear what everybody's gratitude 
moments were Susan thank you so much for 
spending this time with us with our 
listeners and for Doling out the gems 
you have and we will certainly be 
hearing more from Susan Guthrie 
throughout 2022. so thank you so much 
for joining us today you know thank you 
for having me and congratulations on the 
podcast thank you thank you and thank 
you listeners for tuning in and as 
always we would love for you to download 
share review just spread the love and 
know that love is coming for you so 
thank you very much 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm bellagande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back to the podcast 
today's 
expert friend is someone I'm so excited 
and honored to present to you she is my 
friend and you know her as an anchor on 
dun dun dun GMA Good Morning America 
Janae Norman thank you for being here 
with us today and just being you I can't 
wait to have this conversation yes I'm 
so excited you know how much I love you 
uh so this is an absolute pleasure oh my 
gosh and so you guys I'll tell you this 
idea of Janae coming on the show hatched 
behind the scenes in The Green Room at 
GMA which is not even green it's like a 
conference room yeah so I had just been 
covered swabbed and said I can go live 
on the show and I open the door and you 
know past my door walks the effervescent 
sparkling Janae Norman and I probably 
leaped on her and tackled her like 
and we got into this conversation about 
I don't God kindness compassion 
meditation parenting love in like 180 
seconds yes we went zero to a hundred it 
was we were just so excited to see each 
other in person and then yeah all of 
these things it was it was it was the 
universe because we were both already 
thinking all these things and it was a 
perfect moment to let it all out 
to let it all out right and that was and 
so I was like oh we just talked about 
this on the podcast and she was like 
yeah on your podcast I'm like oh my God 
like five minutes ago let's do this so 
I'm so excited Janae to just kind of 
tell us about you tell us your story how 
did you like end up on GMA tell us your 
story as a out spoiler alert a girl from 
Illinois yeah a girl from the cornfields 
and that's what I mean I think about the 
net so often I grew up in Dekalb 
Illinois in in our west of Chicago but 
like not not uh suburbs like straight up 
cornfields we're known for barbed wire 
and corn and Cindy Crawford 
um I loved to write and so it was 
writing that threw me to the journalism 
class in high school and that led me to 
Mizzou 
um but then journalism didn't exactly 
work out so I became a Communications 
and psychology double major and I knew 
even in high school I wanted to intern 
in New York City I wanted to end up at 
ABC News and so even when the journalism 
degree didn't work out those were still 
my goals and I was going to do whatever 
I needed to to make that happen I was in 
a communication class one day when there 
was a posting for a production assistant 
job at the local ABC affiliate took it 
down went and applied that day got that 
job I didn't have a car and this job was 
like away from campus I think I had to 
take like two buses and walk it was it 
was one of those things where it is 
where there's a will there's a way and 
so I then would sometimes borrow a 
friend's car to go to work at four in 
the morning for the morning show and 
then go on to co to my college classes 
the next semester I was doing that but 
then I also started interning at the 
station 
two days a week in the afternoon so I'd 
be there working go to class and then 
come back an intern and then just sort 
of the way the universe does 
there would be breaking news and no one 
else there so they would send me out to 
cover it and then I got the internship 
in New York with ABC and that was the 
dream and so like capacity and 
it was it was just so amazing but 
some people you know it it wouldn't 
necessarily make my bosses feel good 
when I say I didn't like that internship 
but I share that because a not everyone 
is gonna love their internship but that 
doesn't mean you don't get incredible 
lessons from it and the incredible 
takeaway from that internship was 
as much as I wanted to be in New York 
City right away as soon as I graduated 
college I knew if I took a job as a 
production assistant or something like 
that a desk assistant I could get here 
but that was not going to help me get to 
my long-term goal which was Good Morning 
America 
so that's what I learned from that 
internship and I made incredible 
connections and decided you know what 
I've one semester left in school I'm 
gonna go back to Mid-Missouri and I'm 
gonna hit the ground running reporting 
there and and do the local news thing so 
I did I reported in in Mid-Missouri 
graduated started reporting full-time 
there from there went to Tulsa Oklahoma 
from there went to Orlando Florida local 
news thing and again being so goal 
oriented there was a time where on my 
work phone on my home screen I had 
Nielsen's top 20 TV markets 
so every time I looked at my work phone 
I was like look the next goal is here 
and then there came a point where it was 
the top 10 markets look this is the next 
goal because I was so laser focused I 
stayed on the morning show and and every 
place that I worked because you were I 
was going to get more live shot reps the 
big breaking news the big National 
stories everything I did was was geared 
towards ending up right here you were 
clear I was I was and when you're clear 
on your goals the universe conspires to 
make it happen and that is absolutely 
what happened Bella oh my gosh okay so 
wait so you did so you have your screen 
saver and you're going from Mid-Missouri 
to Kansas to Florida okay what happened 
to get you to where you are now okay so 
there came a point when I was in Florida 
and I was just like you know what I I 
realize I am no longer growing in my 
role here I feel like I've gotten all I 
need to from this job 
why else does the universe have me here 
now I really was like there's another 
reason and I don't know yet and I 
eventually met my husband 
okay 
hold up 
okay let's okay let's go there what 
happened okay so Florida 
yes it was I was in Florida I'm in 
Orlando 
and Bella the thing is is when I was I 
was you know 25 26 so focused on my 
career I didn't want to meet anyone that 
was going to distract from that I didn't 
want to meet anyone that was going to 
keep me in Florida because that's not 
where my end goal was 
I I particularly was looking for a plus 
one I was looking for a plus one who I 
could bring along to events when I 
needed to someone I could hang out with 
because I was on the morning shift so I 
had this weird schedule it can be very 
lonely when you're a local news reporter 
going from Market to Market 
and before I met him I just taken a 
break from men I was just like I'm I 
just I'm not going to look right now 
so then once I was like okay I'll give 
it a go I got on Tinder and I had a lot 
of apprehension about it but for me 
working going to work at 2 30 in the 
morning 
I wasn't out at bars I how was I gonna 
meet somebody so I thought this is what 
I have to do 
and now I want to tell you if and for 
those of you dear listeners that are 
like oh I can't put myself out there 
this woman is a local reporter anchor 
and says I'm gonna put my photos on 
there and they all know me and I'm going 
on Tinder so hmm let's marinate in that 
continue Janae exactly and you know what 
Bella I'm glad you point that out 
because obviously I wouldn't have done 
that if I was 
if I was into hookup culture or 
something like that that's not what it 
was so I was being 
I was being specific about what I was 
looking for but I knew I wasn't how else 
was I gonna need someone so I'd gone on 
one date before and that didn't work out 
so then I was like okay I'll go on one 
more day one more date and I'm giving 
this Tinder thing one more day exactly 
this is the last chance 
and oh so Bella I'm gonna tell you this 
story I'd love to tell about meeting my 
husband 
so it starts December 26 2015. I'm in a 
Nordstrom Rack in Orlando Florida and I 
hear a song I'm shopping to because I'm 
gonna spend New Year's Eve in Dallas 
with some friends I hear this song at 
the Nordstrom Rack and I Shazam it I 
recognize the voice from a song that I 
loved on Criminal Minds Ray Ray 
LaMontagne was the singer I hear it I 
Shazam the song and the song is called 
you are the best thing and I'm like oh 
this is I reckon it is the same singer 
he has a very distinct voice I'm like oh 
this is a cool song but I look at it I'm 
like the song's like from 2008 or 
something why is it on right now okay 
cool 
fast forward go on about my life my 
husband and I match on my husband if me 
and this random man we matched on 
January 6th dude comes into my inbox 
exactly but he didn't message me and I 
wasn't gonna message him so two weeks 
pass 
it's a Tuesday after the morning show I 
go out to lunch with my other morning 
reporter our photographers 
um we're out at lunch in Orlando Florida 
and the song comes on again and I Shazam 
it just to make sure I'm like I think 
this is the same song I look it is I'm 
like 
oh Adam I just heard this 
that next morning 
it was that night but I didn't see it 
till the next morning 
this man had messaged me on Tinder 
introduces himself I'm like okay I 
remember I was I remembered the exact 
scene that I was at that morning when I 
got the message and I'm replying and we 
started messaging back and forth and you 
know then we moved to we talk on the 
phone and I'm like okay he seems normal 
enough he's just in Orlando helping with 
some family stuff he's actually based 
out of DC okay there's potential there 
we decided to go to breakfast for our 
first date later that week and 
he was dating multiple people at the 
time breakfast was cheaper I love 
breakfast so I was on board bam our 
conversation was so amazing that we then 
decided to go to dinner that same night 
I love it so Bella we get to dinner 
we're sitting at the table we haven't 
ordered anything yet 
the song comes on again stop it I am a 
hundred percent a believer in science 
from the universe and so I tell them I'm 
like this song this is the third time 
I'm hearing it it's not a new song I 
think the universe is sending me a sign 
and he's like well what's the song about 
let's look up the lyrics 
we pull up the lyrics to Ray 
lamontagne's you are the best thing and 
it's all about you are the best thing 
that ever happened to me and it was at 
dinner 
the first day I ever met this man that 
I'm like wait a minute is this my person 
sure enough oh my God I have full body 
chills and I'm sure I don't even know 
this song or maybe I do and maybe I've 
been at the Nordstrom Rack jamming out 
to Ray Lamonte but you can be darn sure 
that I'm going to be listening to that 
song oh my gosh and then and and that 
okay did he when he swiped on you was he 
like hey are you that person or what did 
he know who you were he did not know he 
didn't like he didn't watch the news 
he's like whatever it's not the local 
news so no he didn't 
um and so it was funny months later as 
we were getting more serious once he did 
he he actually posted on on Facebook and 
was like a screenshot of me on the news 
and was like Hey I'm looking for this 
girl help me find her of course we'd 
already known each other by then so it 
was a fun joke 
um but no at the time he didn't and the 
way the universe works I he was gonna go 
back to DC in five months 
I four months later get out of my 
contract 
I moved to DC without a job my agent at 
the time is like hey are you sure this 
guy's the one 
I'm like yeah it was it was absolutely 
one of those things when you know you 
know and I knew 
I took the leap of faith and so then as 
I moved to DC and I started interviewing 
for jobs there I interviewed with ABC 
News and then the rest of my life falls 
into place Bella oh my God so had you 
been with ABC the whole time I wanted to 
ask you that as you were going Market to 
Market no so it was like I'd been with 
an ABC affiliate and then a fox 
affiliate but it was owned by the same 
company that owned the ABC affiliate in 
Orlando and so those Affiliates really 
had nothing to do with the network yep 
so then once I got once I moved to DC 
without a job that's when I was 
interviewing with the network 
started working at the DC Bureau in ABC 
um two years later got the promotion to 
overnights we moved our whole family us 
and our almost one-year-old to New York 
uh and the rest is history 
oh my gosh and 
you like you're there you dreamed this 
yeah as a kid in Dekalb and and here you 
are and what a testament to knowing your 
goals right being fearless and being 
conscious of taking all the steps in 
that direction and never saying could I 
do this should I you just did it and and 
I love that and for those of you who are 
listening to this and thinking about 
your own careers or maybe your own 
search and love when you are conscious 
and you have the goals and you start 
doing the right things on a daily basis 
and staying super focused every day you 
have a choice when a decision a choice 
comes to you you can go left or you can 
go right when you know where you want to 
go you all those small things lead to 
the big things right yes everything you 
did Led you to where you are now yes and 
right that's what was just so incredible 
and he still jokes we still joke it's 
not a joke he is the best thing that 
ever happened to me because that it it 
was following him to DC that that led me 
to ABC at the time that it did 
um right yeah it was it is incredible 
wow and is he in a similar career to you 
absolutely not 
his whole life was completely different 
um and he has gotten used to it because 
personally we're both very private he is 
even more private 
um and so even the idea of like being 
posted on Instagram and stuff like that 
he's very much like let's limit it like 
he's he's good in the shadows 
um which is a good balance for me 
and it is your fifth wedding anniversary 
this week right yeah yeah and that is 
what's 
uh amazing about the whole journey that 
here we are five years into marriage 
um all of the ups and downs and the the 
joy that comes with it 
and not only are we celebrating five 
years of marriage but we are celebrating 
becoming a family of five 
um oh my gosh I'm literally I'm done I'm 
done this is 
amazing amazing and you've got a 
five-year-old boys girls remind me 
five-year-old boy three-year-old girl 
um yeah and do you know what the third 
is no and we won't find out we didn't 
find out with our daughter either we'd 
love a good surprise 
um yeah and at this point we we just 
don't even care either because we got 
one of both we got everything we need uh 
we're just like Bring it on Bring on 
this next challenge 
oh my gosh I love this and and tell like 
did you have serious relationships 
before you met your husband like had 
dating been easy for you or just kind of 
give us a little bit of a background on 
that that's interesting that you ask 
because there was like there were a 
couple 
longer term relationships that I was in 
but in hindsight do I consider them like 
seriously dating no and I say that 
because 
even in those instances even one who I 
lived with at one point I knew deep in 
my soul that that wasn't going to be 
anything more than that I knew that I 
knew that I know that now obviously but 
I I knew that then 
um and so 
it was 
so no it's hard to call it serious and 
and I think that that's an important 
distinction because along the way there 
were there were other people who tried 
to tell me what that relationship was or 
what it could be 
but deep in my heart I knew that it 
wasn't 
and and obviously I was fine at that 
time dating in that way 
um but then once I was once I met my 
husband when we were dating for five 
months it felt different than two years 
before you know and it's that I think 
Oprah calls it like tapping into that 
inner knowing there's just something in 
your soul it's your intuition and 
there's so much going on in life that 
makes us question that it's our mind 
getting in the way of what our body 
knows 
um but there are times when I know that 
I've been able to tap into that and 
those are some of them 
I love that and I and what sounds so 
awesome as you said when you guys were 
at breakfast on your first date the 
conversation was so easy and it was 
amazing and the conversation seems to 
have continued for the last several 
years has did you and it's so 
interesting that you say that you knew 
in your gut that the other people let's 
call them long-term or serious whatever 
it was you knew in your gut that they 
weren't the right people yeah 
and then at a certain point you just 
pulled the plug and said you're not 
right for me I gotta move on it's great 
that you think I'm the lid to your pot 
but this is not right for me yeah and it 
was 
and I I remember even calling my mom at 
one point to tell her uh about breaking 
up with one of them and she was like 
shocked and oh my gosh and I was like no 
no no no it's okay and like was I a 
little bit sad and mourning the end of 
something yeah but I just knew I knew 
that this was the right thing to do and 
I as we're talking about this I remember 
appreciating that I knew when to end 
something that I knew when it was time 
to walk away when it was time to say 
goodbye because that's a skill and 
that's hard because goodbyes are hard 
and they're sad and they can come with a 
lot of uneasy feelings but that doesn't 
mean you don't need them 
there are still so many lessons in that 
and so that was one thing that I 
appreciated that I knew okay this is no 
longer serving me 
so now it's time to move on 
whether that was a relationship a job 
whatever the case may be 
and that's beautiful because I know for 
so many of us and maybe for you 
listening that's a hard thing to do 
right sometimes when we know in our soul 
when we really tap in and we're 
listening we know that there are red 
flags we know maybe this is toxic or we 
just know this isn't the right fit for 
me good human but it's done and to have 
the courage to be able to say I know 
this isn't right and I know there's 
something better and I know I'm going to 
be okay like your mom was nervous oh my 
God yeah my darling you're going to be 
single living by yourself again ah right 
like Mom yes 
right and and you were okay and you were 
okay and you didn't stay in something 
that wasn't serving you I call that it's 
an accounting concept called sunk cost 
you just continue to put more and more 
dollars into something that you know is 
a dog it's not going to go anywhere but 
oh it's better than being alone it's 
better than blah blah blah you were like 
oh no no no if it's not on my journey to 
where I want to go it's Gotta Go that's 
it and that's exactly it it was okay it 
would just be more comfortable in the 
short term maybe but long-term 
absolutely not and it was the long-term 
goals that ultimately I was always very 
clear about and focused on I love that 
and what are your favorite things about 
your husband 
first off he is hilarious and having 
someone 
to roll through life who literally will 
have me doubled over in the kitchen 
crying laughing 
um that just feels really good uh he is 
he's very witty and funny even even in 
the midst of an argument that man can 
get me to completely disarm and laugh 
and I appreciate that so much even when 
I don't want to 
well exactly and what it sounds like to 
me he's funny and what that lends itself 
to is this lightness in your 
relationship even if you're having a 
conflict he can kind of turn it into 
something fun and playful even though 
you're like this is not funny and it is 
not playful but that tells me he's 
someone who generally is probably a 
glass half full person who looks at the 
world with those lenses and doesn't help 
too seriously and 
he is he's just level he is level in a 
way that I am still learning to find 
that balance I'm I'm more tumultuous 
with the highs and lows and he's just 
level and he challenges me 
Bella and all the most frustrating but 
all of the most necessary ways 
to 
force me to become the best version of 
myself and he is right there 
loving me so steadfastly along the way 
in a way that sometimes I'm just like 
are you sure 
are you sure 
but he does 
um and to to be able to grow and evolve 
and know that that person is in your 
corner cheering you on 
um is such a huge relief honestly 
um I love that and for those of you who 
are smart daters you know about our 
concept of elevator people and Janae we 
talk about wants versus needs in the 
dating world and so much and so many it 
will just go with women looking for men 
for a second we'll come in I want him to 
be over six feet tall and have six 
figures in a salary and 
they've been doing this year over year 
decade over decade going God sometimes 
good on paper isn't worth the paper it's 
even written on why can't I get this 
right and so we shift their dating 
philosophy to something we call elevator 
people we have them Define the people in 
their life I'm like tell me about the 
people that make you really really happy 
that elevate you so we call them 
elevator people because they elevate you 
yeah and one of the Hallmarks when 
people go through that exercise with us 
and they list you know three to seven 
people that really are the creme de La 
Creme of the relationships in their 
lives and one of the most common thing 
that I hear about what an elevator 
person is and I've surveyed over 2 000 
singles doing this through our practice 
someone who is in my corner who 
cheerleads me who encourages me to be 
the best version of myself is always 
there for me sounds like you've got 
yourself a tried and true elevator man 
yeah and I mean and Bella to hear you 
say the difference between wants and 
needs I knew I knew that I needed a very 
strong man who had very strong 
boundaries of his own and everything 
because 
I have a way of being able to get what I 
want 
and but I needed so I need someone who 
can be more firm with me and who can 
call me on my nonsense and can just call 
me out and still love me and that is 
absolute that's what I needed and that 
is who my husband is 
um I love that and I'm sure you are that 
person for him as well oh a hundred 
percent 
you or each other's elevator people so 
um you know tell us you've got you know 
for your young age 
you've got so much good life experience 
do you have any other genetisms that you 
want to leave us to make us better oh my 
gosh I tell myself and I have told 
myself since before I remember standing 
in Orlando in my first apartment looking 
out the window towards downtown and I 
had this poster that said fortune favors 
the bold and I still tell myself that 
fortune favors the bold and I use that 
when you come to one of those Forks in 
the road and you're not sure what to do 
and the the safer Choice it feels safe 
for a reason because it's not going to 
push you so much out of your comfort 
zone you're you're not thinking about 
the fear or you are thinking about the 
fear of the the more challenging Road 
and I I take stock NOW of when I am 
making a decision that's based in fear 
and if it's based in fear that's not a 
good place to make a decision from 
and I try to remind myself that fortune 
favors the bold and so make the Bold 
decision do the hard thing do the thing 
that people are going to question you on 
because the wrist may be bigger but the 
rewards are too and that has worked out 
for me so extremely well in dating and 
career in life 
I love that and I find something very 
similar one if I look back at the things 
I'm proudest of in my life or that have 
given me the most joy and those moments 
they're always those moments where you 
could have said no out of fear 
right my first interview live on GMA 
probably was 2016 or 2017 and I get a 
call I'm like no no and then I'm like 
okay hold on yeah 
yes I'll do this and you put the phone 
down you're like I think I'm gonna go 
throw up now and then I'm gonna come 
back and then I'll be fine 
I'll get through that but yes never make 
a decision out of fear because at the 
end of the day if they make a call to 
you you are good enough and always 
remember I tell people expect acceptance 
wherever you are walk into a room expect 
to be accepted you belong in that room I 
like that 
you will always Janae expect acceptance 
right and you have and you've 
demonstrated that but we can all have 
those moments of oh my gosh should I be 
in this room hell to the yes expect 
acceptance and when you walk in and you 
expect that sometimes I do this when I 
walk into rooms of people I'm like oh my 
gosh dude look who's that look you know 
what and I just steal myself in my core 
I always imagine this big heart in my 
core right and I kind of tighten up 
expect acceptance yes and then you just 
comport yourself differently yeah you're 
the better version of yourself because 
you're not coming from a place of fear 
right you're coming from a place of love 
and you can give that love to the people 
in the room so they feel that people 
respond to that exactly yes yes yes yes 
oh my gosh you are so amazing you have 
to come back to this show again do you 
swear yes absolutely 
I love any chance to get to just chat 
with you so absolutely oh my gosh all 
right done it's a date well I am so 
happy for you happiest five year 
anniversary I know you're going to be at 
5 0 someday as well your 50th 
anniversary and a week of adding the 
fifth to your beautiful family 
um we are sending you lots of love and 
you know lots of support through the 
pregnancy eat the cake do all the things 
thank you thank you 
all right smart daters fortune favors 
the Bold like Janae said stop making 
decisions out of fear stop spending time 
with people that aren't good for you 
when you know in your gut this 
relationship is not serving you and this 
night might not even be a romantic 
relationship it could be a friendship it 
could be a job if it is not serving you 
and that inner voice is telling you that 
be the Bold favor yourself make that 
decision today that you are going to be 
proud of and if you do make that 
decision DM us email us on our website 
tell us what you did to be bold be 
courageous because we want to hear from 
you and if you need help with your love 
life you know be bold and you know where 
to come so with that we will see you 
next week 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back you have asked through that 
famous poll that I've been talking about 
your number one favorite episodes are 
actual love stories of people that have 
been through the tunnel of fire of Life 
done the trust fall into Smart dating 
Academy and come out the other side at 
all ages you know I always say it's 
really never too early to learn how to 
date smart and it's certainly never ever 
ever too late how to learn this process 
so today I couldn't be more excited to 
have my guest who is a dear friend and 
client former client who's now engaged 
spoiler alerts so Christy Reynolds 
welcome to the podcast thank you Bella 
it's so great to be here so Christy is 
incredibly humble and you'll hear her 
slight little Southern twank but this 
little Spitfire is a badass 
extraordinarily successful woman who is 
as beautiful inside as she is on the 
outside she's the department head and 
Bruno professor of marketing at the 
University of Alabama do y all hear that 
she's the department head so we are so 
excited to have you here thank you I'm 
so happy to be here it's so good to see 
you and get to talk about all this fun 
all these fun things that have been 
happening my goodness so Christy what 
year was it that we connected was it 20 
it was end 
of the end of 
18 yeah well fall fall of 2018 that's it 
yep and we were connected through a 
common friend of ours yes yes isn't it 
amazing that we had the mutual friends 
of um John and 
Dana um who are two fabulous People 
Extraordinary badasses by the way so our 
friends John list and Dana suskin who 
are amazing and connected Christie and 
me together as Christy was ready to date 
in a different way so chrisy I'm going 
to just set the stage tell us kind of 
about your life any inflection points 
kind of your marriage what happened and 
how you ended up here okay well um I I 
knew John John and I were professors 
together at the University of Central 
Florida a million years ago um 19 in 
1995 six seven those years you know when 
we both left Central Florida and went 
our separate ways but I always kept in 
touch so it I just was a it was a 
miracle it was a coincidence of a 
lifetime that that he came to visit here 
at Alabama and said hey well and his 
wife Dana came and they said you need to 
meet Bella so it that was just one of 
the luckiest moments of my life but um 
so here I am um but yeah so I I was 
married for 20 years um 
I you know you said it gets raw and um 
get raw girl you can tell us everything 
um I had a great husband Dave and he had 
a um if you're familiar with medical 
terms it's called a gly blastoma 
multiform but basically it's a brain 
tumor and so he was sick for three and a 
half years and um he did oh he did so 
well he he did he had a great life 
before that and then even after he got 
sick he he just embraced um life and did 
really really well but it's you know 
incurable disease and we knew it was 
terminal and so um so he died in um 
November of 
2016 you know and so first six months 
you know it I don't remember it the blur 
just an absolute blur yeah it's a blur 
and um even though you know that 
somebody's gonna die 
it's it just does you know doesn't 
prepare you for a you know really 
different life but I you know I really I 
did really well um the first six months 
was like I said little bit of a blur um 
but then you know I jumped back into 
work had tons of friends and family and 
and all of that so you know I was not 
and I was sad but I was not I was not it 
was a different kind of sad when you 
think about somebody sad and they can't 
get out of the bed and they're it was 
not like that I was I was very sad the 
loss of somebody who loved life so much 
um and then I and I but I wasn't lonely 
I W I wasn't I'm pretty good at keeping 
busy and doing even if I'm home by 
myself I'm busy I'm never bored you know 
so I was B I love to cook you know I was 
and lots of folks asked me to go eat 
dinner and so you know got through the 
first six months and then they asked me 
to be department head at work and I was 
not ready for that uh that's a whole 
other story but anyway that so that was 
is amazing well thank you um but it was 
an avalanche of information that I had 
to absorb and extra responsibilities and 
duties and that sort of thing so that 
started that summer and that was about 
six months after he after Dave died and 
so um I dove into that um really busy 
and um all kinds of fires to put out I 
mean you know we kind of we laugh my 
administrator assistant and I would just 
sit there and laugh in the office 
because if we hadn't laughed we would 
have cried because there were just so 
many fires to put out and I was learning 
I didn't know what I was doing and all 
that um so go through the fall and one 
of our um instructors quit teaching his 
classes and just stopped teaching so I 
had to teach his classes and here I was 
new department head and you know all 
this 
stuff and then my mother died oh yes um 
so 11 months after Dave died my mother 
died now my Mother wasn't completely 
well in a lot of sense of that word um 
so it was not expected that she died but 
it wasn't surprising you know here that 
is I have to clean out her apartment I 
have to bury her you know here it all is 
again and all of that um and you know 
dealing with a lot of the things that 
were with the situation with my mother 
and everything so so um so I'm doing all 
that and this guy from high school shows 
up literally like shows up shows up how 
did he show up well he he before my 
mother died you know people all know 
football is pretty big here right I live 
in Alabama it 
is I live a half mile from the stadium 
in the downtown historic district and 
you can walk to the Stadium you can hear 
it when they score a touchdown I we Dave 
and I used to go to all the games and 
all that kind of stuff I have season 
tickets but I usually just give them 
away or whatever now unless we we want 
to go up and and I'll get to something 
that is related to that later but anyway 
um we we like to just sit here and hang 
out at the house or go go walk around 
and then come back and watch it on TV 
you we're old now it's we can't hang 
anymore with all the stuff in the 
stadium but anyway um so he came he we 
we were always friends this this guy we 
were always friends in high school we 
went to a he didn't go to the same 
College as I did he went to a college 
about an hour away we went to a formal 
one time but never really D we went to a 
dance one time in high school but we 
weren't we never were boyfriend 
girlfriend or anything like that I was 
just friends and had tons and tons of 
mutual friends over the many years in 
between you know we graduated high 
school 85 you know and so this is now 
2017 so over the many years in between 
that lots of mutual friends and you know 
what has brought a whole new dimension 
in all of this is Facebook you know so 
you you you feel like you know people 
that you knew when you're 15 because 
then you see them and what they're doing 
on Facebook now right for sure for sure 
so you know I kept you know I kept I saw 
him on Facebook and saw where he was and 
his family and all that well he had he 
gotten divorced years before I think 
when his kids were probably I know 12 or 
somewhere around those ages um anyway so 
he'd been divorced for several years but 
um so he come he just says hey um I just 
wanted to check on you you know how you 
doing since Dave passed away and D hey 
you know sometimes I get to tuscala I'd 
love to come to a football game that is 
D all that kind of stuff and so um he 
came up for a football game and it was 
just my niece came my sister-in-law came 
we tailgated we friend friend friends 
all just like everybody just having a 
good time as 
friends um and um he was very alluring 
he um was 
mysterious um alluring a friend of mine 
used a word and I can't remember what it 
is describing it'll probably pop into my 
head in a minute but alluring is a 
really 
good word mysterious that kind of thing 
you know you know not badl looking and 
tall and all that kind of stuff so I 
didn't really I was really busy didn't 
think much of it and you know so we had 
a football weekend he goes his merry way 
and I go my Merry way and get back into 
work and all that stuff and more 
football season friends coming that sort 
of thing so about two weeks later my 
mother guys oh 
well he High tells it back up to 
tuscalosa to help me you know after my 
mother died my sister-in-law came thank 
God we cleaned out my mother's apartment 
and then he shows up you know and I was 
in a I mean as you can imagine probably 
the most vulnerable state that anybody 
could be in right I can't I've got full 
Goosebumps right now yeah so husband 
husband's been dead 11 months mother 
dies 
um work 
overload and you know this very alluring 
Charming seemingly wonderful helpful 
conscientious cordial 
friendly man from the past that you went 
to high school with that you feel 
this 
overvalued sense of connection because 
you've now known each other for 30 plus 
years so he comes riding in back to 
Tuscaloosa on his White Horse probably a 
white donkey but let's just give let's 
say at the time it seemed like it was a 
white horse so he came in you were 
vulnerable basically just on your knees 
Dave gone mom gone doing it all over 
again now 
he shows up now what happens so um he 
shows up it was 
uh we my sister-in-law and I cleaned it 
was MBE Monday we cleaned my mother's 
apartment maybe maybe tues no maybe well 
early in that week he shows up my 
mother's funeral is Thursday so he's 
there for me for that right and then of 
course of course there's another 
football game that weekend so he stays 
for the football game and you know 
we do all that and hang out and all that 
kind of stuff and I just again it's just 
he's you know so charming and so 
seemingly wonderful and helpful and 
just conscientious and friendly engaging 
and all those things and I'm you know in 
a up and he showed up right he showed up 
he show it's funny I'm I have cats and 
um cats a lot of times show up it's just 
funny this happens to me a lot but it's 
usually FES but anyway um he you know 
just not you know knocked me off my feet 
really but you know at that point it was 
that was really nothing um but then you 
know I just I was in again this 
vulnerable state 
so we um plan to get together again but 
still is friends and all that so I'll 
fast forward so nothing happened that 
weekend he comes plays night and shining 
armor I'm here and you're like how nice 
okay you know then all the texting 
starts you know oh I can't quit thinking 
about you and I know you're busy but 
you're on my mind and all these sweet 
things and you're so wonderful and 
you're so beautiful and you're you know 
I was redoing some things in my house 
and oh I'm so smart because I'm I can 
organize people to come redo things in 
my house which I'm like I mean yeah 
that's really not I mean now looking 
back all you gotta do is write a check 
right you know but anyway you know 
everything he everything that I did was 
just like so wonderful my cooking was 
wonderful it was wonderful that I cooked 
it was wonderful that I did 
this I I mean I can just go on and on 
and on on and on and on super 
complimentary which was very alluring 
and 
seductive you're in a place of hurt and 
someone sees you and is telling you all 
these amazing things about you and not 
that you lack in any self-confidence but 
like you said you were incredibly 
vulnerable and sad and at that moment 
your cup is empty and somebody comes and 
they start feeding into your cup a 
spicet of verbal affirmations 
attention yes and so you got to think 
about too you know for the year prior I 
was a widow and you know all I did was 
work um and then for three and a half 
years before that I took care of a 
cancer 
patient and a mother who had a lot of 
problems you know I remember I remember 
when when Dave was 
diagnosed and my mom came over and my 
Dave said to my mother Sherry 
Christie has to take care of me now 
you're going to have to straighten up 
and she said I will Dave I promise I 
will but you know she didn't she she 
didn't um you know so I have given and 
given and given and given for so long 
and to and not that Dave was not 
wonderful and tell me how wonderful it 
was was like you know he he did but it 
still when you're taking care when 
you're a caregiver of somebody with a 
terminal illness and then you have a a a 
mother who 
H you know has um addiction problems 
it's it you don't have much to give you 
have nothing and you have a career yeah 
right yes so fulltime more than 
full-time job but more than full-time 
job yeah so you know he just oh how 
wonderful you were and all that you know 
I fell for it hook line and sinker um 
you know 
so the it just the ball started rolling 
and um he came back you know the 
wonderful text through the two weeks 
that I didn't see him then he comes back 
for another football 
game yeah you know all that and it gets 
into Thanksgiving and then Christmas and 
all the he was actually lived away was 
trying to move back to the to close 
around where I live and and in 
Birmingham which is an hour away or 
somewhere he was trying that's where his 
parents are so he was trying to move 
back that was the story or whatever but 
anyway um so it all goes really well and 
then I just I don't know started having 
these weird I guess I came up for air um 
because I felt like I you know feel like 
I'd fallen off a cliff I kept thinking 
that the whole time how it was 
intoxicating and I I kept thinking to 
myself I just feel like I'm floating I'm 
feel like I'm flying I feel like I'm 
I've falling off a cliff I feel like I'm 
on a roller coaster it was 
intoxicating but then it go it it it's 
little pieces of it going bad it's not 
like it wasn't a Monumental event of it 
going bad it's little crumbs 
of something's not right oh okay let's 
what happened so you're falling off the 
cliff the first couple weeks yeah this 
is and I would say on 
into closer this is It's October 
November and then through the holidays 
and then we're in the holiday you know 
closer to after New 
Year's just and then looking back I 
remember little after about four five 
six weeks a little snot comments that I 
brushed away and didn't didn't pay 
attention to yeah um under the radar I 
mean under the radar so far under the 
radar it's it's I didn't detect them at 
the time right because you're so pumped 
up on oxytocin and you're on the roller 
coaster and you don't it's like those 
comments they hit us but they get stored 
someplace else at that moment when we're 
in that in that chemical Haze so your 
system started to receive them now in 
retrospect maybe six weeks after which 
is very typical for a narcissist right 
they are fast and furious and it takes 
us Sometimes some smelling salts to come 
to and that can be three to four months 
later yes yes yes yeah my 
niece right at the beginning was 
like she could be in the same 
room really yeah and what did she 
feel my brother said that's just cuz 
he's not uncle Dave and she's like nope 
that's not it something's wrong yeah 
she's my nephew says she has a good 
spidey sense we might have to hire her 
as a dating 
coach I don't I just started I just 
things just didn't add up it just things 
just didn't add up um and it it and then 
you know it just all the typical stuff 
that they do it didn't get that bad with 
as far as luckily for me 
according to a lot of things I've read 
about people women in these kind of 
relationships I got lucky it was just a 
snide some emotional stuff and and the 
fact that I know now that this person 
took 
uh um on purpose came and took advantage 
of me wow how can somebody take 
advantage of somebody who's a widow 
whose mother just died I don't 
understand I I don't get it I do not get 
it and under the ruse of oh we've known 
each other for since we were 15 right 
14 oh or maybe even I don't know maybe 
it's 
12 that long oh we know yeah yeah it's 
it it messed me up I was messed up for a 
while really messed up 
um how long did it all last so now six 
weeks in you start to see the red flat 
is like I'm not loving guy and then I've 
got some friends who are really good 
detectives and they I don't know just 
found things online that just made 
things not add up 
and I we somebody like I'd find somebody 
that knew him and that somebody I know 
would say hey do you know so and so and 
then people would just 
go yeah yeah we know him they that was 
it like that was it like they just were 
keeping their mouths shut as friends 
tried to reach out and do their due 
diligence and kind of investigate him 
they were starting to see people were 
like yeah I know like yeah I know that 
guy why right so nothing like oh my God 
what an amazing guy when we have good 
things to say about somebody if somebody 
says to me oh do you know Professor 
Christie reyolds be like oh my gosh she 
is amazing we come out with that right 
away but it's like if you say yeah why 
keep your shovel to the ground and keep 
digging because the dirt's gonna get 
thick yeah yeah so this was start March 
um and then I I don't know I just 
started I just had a feeling and then it 
everybody else had a feeling and it was 
just things it add up and then I found 
somebody who was friends with his most 
recent girlfriend before me and I got 
confirmation and then there you go so 
that was it 
so 
lying you know lots of 
manipulation maybe infidelity all of the 
things textbook text yes unreal and it 
it until this experience I always 
thought that Nar The Narcissist was a 
mythological 
figure and looking back I probably knew 
some along the way but I never I've 
never encountered anything like this I 
never I it's just it's still 
mindboggling to me I but I have learned 
so much and I've look this is lot you 
know I run so I have a lot of time to 
think um I've I saw signs all along the 
way that make sense now that I know what 
the definition of this personality type 
is it all fits together perfectly 
so wow and 
so so now you and that whole thing 
lasted four months five months maybe 
yeah yeah yeah yeah it that people like 
oh that's not very long no it's enough 
to do collateral damage it it's 
traumatizing it is it's it was I was I 
was in a bad it brought up all the grief 
from my husband and my mother made that 
worse 
just every bad thing that just an 
avalanche of 
awfulness C culminating um 
from having that experience with him and 
just again and you know somebody people 
say just there's just some things you 
can't explain and I think this is one of 
them but I like to be able to explain 
things like why did that person do that 
and I'm just like how could somebody 
even if you don't know them take 
advantage of somebody whose husband died 
and then their mother died I just can't 
understand it but anyway we we never 
will right it's just like trying to 
understand why somebody might harm a 
child we we can't understand that well 
what we do know the number one Hallmark 
of a 
narcissist is that they lack 
empathy right and when you lack 
empathy your husband and your mom died 
floats off their skin they don't care 
what's in it for 
me no what's in it for me 
and they're like 
vultures right and they look at us as 
prey and from their perspective they can 
say all the right things they can pour 
into your cup they will affirm you 
verbally you're cooking the way you look 
how amazing you are and it's all part of 
the deception ultimately it's all it's 
all to make you kind of go oh wow look 
over here right and and one of the 
biggest things that we talk about in 
relationships is when you feel like you 
are falling off a cliff when you feel 
like you're on a roller coaster your 
whole nervous system has been 
activated good relationships feel 
peaceful if you think about how you felt 
with Dave probably none of these 
feelings ever no it was uh just a we 
were really were friends for a long time 
you know like we dated but it was very 
platonic for a long time and just really 
got to know each other and then it it 
wasn't any kind of flying or falling off 
a cliff or Now Dave was real fun loving 
and I you know because he was uh he 
loved he just loved to have fun and he 
loved to do fun things and he loved to 
be outside and have um experiences and 
all that I mean most the time we were on 
a roller coaster but it was just because 
we it was actually we really were on a 
roller coaster he like he loved roller 
coaster you know it was real real not 
the metaphorical roller coaster yeah I 
mean he was just he was so funny and um 
humorous that it I mean I couldn't even 
get mad at him because he he's too funny 
I mean he just so it's that kind of 
situation what I don't know it it wasn't 
euphoric I don't ever remember I mean I 
remember being so happy and and like 
peaceful and tend sometimes W to 
strangle him because he he was a little 
um you know a childlike as as our 
partners can be that are very funloving 
right exactly like Life's a party right 
wooo yeah um but never like that 
Euphoria no that Euphoria yeah no so you 
know I don't know but I just want to 
caution your listeners it's be careful 
it's it's 
this is it I when I read your booklet 
the first when I first met you and y'all 
sent me the materials and all that it 
said the butterflies butterflies are and 
I it you're right you are right that 
that's the that euphoric feeling or that 
uneasiness or whatever that's the sign 
it is it really is that doesn't mean 
that you're you you're not in love with 
somebody or you are crazy about them is 
a there's a difference there really is 
there is a difference oh 100% the 
butterflies are anxiety it's your body 
saying there's danger up ahead run the 
other way Christy Reynolds take your 
Nikes and turn them around the other way 
I don't know if you Nikes but 
um well now we flashback you pick 
yourself up after the N now John comes 
down you 
know he was he a Nobel Lord what was was 
he nominated he's everything that he is 
UN unbelievable just both of them are 
just the power couple of the century 
right they do such incredible things and 
they're such nice people um so he came 
down so it's coincidentally one of his 
students is now one of our faculty 
members here student at Maryland is now 
faculty members so he everybody's like 
John list is coming know I'm the I'm 
like well I've know him the longest so 
you know exactly exactly so again 
football rolls around you know so we he 
comes on a football weekend and um he 
does his talk and we have the lunches 
and all them so we set up a big tailgate 
that hit the econ Department sets a big 
tailgate up on Friday so I go to the 
tailgate and um Dana I get to meet Dana 
and all that and so he's they start 
asking me like about you know they knew 
Dave you know we we did things with them 
in Orlando as as couples back then we 
went to concerts and things like that um 
way back at UCF you know so they knew 
Dave and all that and they were like 
well how are you doing are you dating 
I'm like well I had this really bad 
experience in a nutshell told them well 
you just have to meet Bella so that's 
that was in October and um so Dana made 
the connection and by then you know i' 
been the through the summer and then 
through the beginning of the 
Fall I i' gotten better I started 
recovering from the bad experience and 
um I 
knew um once Dana told me all about 
you and them really encouraging me um I 
knew that connecting with you was what I 
had to do to be able to get back out 
there after what happened and so I was I 
I wasn't ready to do it on my own was 
not couldn't I couldn't there's no way 
couldn't done it WR so I was ready to do 
it and I had you and Lindsay to hold my 
hand and um all that so it that's that's 
what did it and it was that's just I 
don't know just a blessing from God that 
I that weekend with uh John and Dana and 
then you know connecting me with you um 
and so I was coming out of it and then 
then that was just at that point just um 
a lot of hope you know looking forward 
to starting a new approach to and you 
know and the thing is is back you know 
when he showed up I again I I was not 
going to actively look to date right so 
yeah I wasn't back you know back the 
year year before 
um if if I have to find any Silver 
Linings and anything at least it got me 
where I knew that I once I got over the 
hurdle you know of hoping not to meet 
another 
narcissist I knew I could get back out 
there so at least that's one silver 
lining of that I knew I could you know 
because when you're I mean I that dat 
died when I was 49 so by then it was 50 
51 you know dating is different now and 
it's different when you're in your 50s 
it's it it's I can't you you know that 
it's going to be different but it's so 
different that you can't even imagine 
you can't even imagine so 
so anyway that's when um you know I 
flipped to Chicago and we got started on 
all of this so that was you know such a 
great 
opportunity so great and I know we 
really talked a lot about what red flags 
are of narcissists and and right we have 
our booklet with all of the things and 
what healthy relationships should look 
like with trajectories and graphs 
because you know you're I'm a fellow ner 
fellow uh loves graphs loves data and so 
how do we follow that because there is a 
process to follow and even when we've 
known healthy lasting love when you get 
back out there you think everybody's 
good you think everybody is wholesome 
and healthy and especially people from 
the past right and we overvalue and 
overweight that sometimes and we give 
people so much more like oh I just want 
to meet somebody at my high school 
reunion well do you really 
because depends on who the person is so 
I think one of the things that we did 
together was really start to separate 
who are the people in your life that 
make you happiest and then we put 
together this profile of who your high 
GHQ guy is high and good husband 
qualities here's your green flags here's 
your red flags and then we did your 
photo shoot and I'm gonna have a page 
Christy's already got a page on our 
website and it'll be updated but you can 
see how gorgeous she is and so we put 
you online you've got a new profile then 
what happens when you get you I think we 
launched you on Match if I'm not 
mistaken yeah you did you did well 
that's just you know it's a whole 
different experience and I never had 
done that I knew people who had met on 
Match actually I know some people who 
are currently together married and all 
that who met on Match many years ago 
when it was not as ubiquitous as it is 
is now you know the wild west yes oh the 
wild I call dating in your 50s the wild 
west quite the wild west yes yes yeah so 
um yeah and y'all just I don't know the 
the meetings that we had and the 
guidance and all that just help you the 
the main thing is what everybody needs 
to know is you really you need to talk 
to people a lot for 
talking even if it's just on the phone 
for a real really long 
time yeah you need to get to know 
somebody at their core and over time and 
so so Greg came into your inbox in mat 
yes yes so I um I had gone to some 
lunches with some um a few other fellas 
and I will tell you this you know and of 
course there's a lot of people that you 
guys help me you know weed in weed out 
weed in weed out because you know 
they're not they's somebody else for 
them and that's great and I hope they're 
happy but they're not right for me or 
they're you can tell that they're like a 
a 30-year-old who saying they really 
like a 50y old and you're like no that's 
probably not you know not the kind of 
relationship I'm looking for exactly 
that kind of thing but um so you know 
went to lunch with a lot of really every 
person that I either had um I had 
lunches and coffee I don't drink coffee 
but so I'd get whatever tea or Diet Coke 
or whatever but they were all so nice 
wow like they were there was not anybody 
who I had lunch with or coffee with who 
I thought oh my gosh what an awful 
monster like that person is not lovely 
like and they were all really sweet guys 
really really sweet guys and there was a 
couple of them that oh maybe other no 
just one one other that I had more than 
one lunch coffee thing with and very 
very nice very very nice guy but I don't 
know I just didn't you know I just knew 
that it wasn't for me but anyway so Greg 
had been in Germany um he he works for 
Mercedes and he had been in Germany for 
a few 
months and so had just 
returned and so the T I mean the timing 
really was Unreal as far as when me 
being on there and him just getting home 
getting home and it said why he in 
Germany where he had you know lots of 
friends over there and colleagues and 
all that and was busy and and working 
and 
enjoying seeing the country and all that 
um he just had a lot of time to think 
and he thought you know he'd been 
divorced remember for year and a half or 
so and said I'm going to really try to 
be serious about finding a companion and 
that sort of thing so 
um you know I had been like it like I 
said to some lunches and some coffees 
that were with really nice men that I 
knew that weren't for me and you know I 
saw his nice photograph one of his 
colleagues had taken of him in his nice 
suit and I was like oh he it's like you 
know very professional you know so I 
this is at the point where you guys told 
me it was okay for me to message them 
because you know there's the your 
process or what whatever so right when 
when you're going to switch from letting 
them message you to when you're going to 
start to proactively message right so 
you saw him and you messaged him first I 
messaged him first because I just I 
loved his photo photograph he he just 
looks just so professional and like his 
I don't know it was just a very good um 
professional photograph and he just 
looked like a you know somebody who um 
approachable but 
you know very I just I put a lot of 
appreciation in the effort of him you 
know having that night that going to the 
effort to make a you know nice 
professional photograph and um he looked 
like a man with a plan yeah exactly 
right a suit I mean a suit really you 
know it's nice suits are they they're 
big deal gentlemen when you're listening 
step it up in your photos okay yeah yeah 
yeah yeah none in the bathroom no 
bathroom photos girl yeah I know it's 
get a friend and go outside um but 
anyway he so we you know we started 
talking and talked and talked and talked 
and it's funny because you know the guy 
that showed up was somebody from high 
school and my brothers after that were 
like no other guys from high school no 
that's it no more no my no more no more 
guys from high school um Greg's four 
years younger than me so we would never 
have been in high school at the same 
time when he was in high school I was in 
college but it's hilarious because when 
he he asked me where I went to high 
school he knew for some reason he had a 
premonition that I was going to say the 
same high school that he went to and yes 
we went to the same high school oh my 
God I don't even think I remember that 
that's crazy I know I know it said we 
weren't there together so I guess that 
my my brothers gave me a 
pass 
you didn't walk the Halls at the same 
time fine exactly exactly so um and I 
don't know it just it was just really 
comfortable and we talked and talked it 
turns out we have some mutual friends 
that um we are still you know he he's 
been friends with them for a long time I 
was acquaintances with them the husband 
and my husband used to go get a beer 
together and the wife I knew her with 
several different Connections in town 
and so we we friendly with and they're 
you know good friends of ours now we 
hang out and do Gatherings for birthdays 
and that sort of thing so we had mutual 
friends and I don't know it was just 
very it was a 
comforting 
comfortable we had 
fun um but I you know no falling off 
cliffs no hang gliding no bungee jumping 
type you know jumping out of an airplane 
type feelings no no and and what I 
remember about your process is a lot of 
the guidance was around taking it slowly 
yeah yes I just again I cannot 
overemphasize talking talk on the phone 
for four hours if one night you know you 
might be cleaning your kitchen talk just 
get to know people just sit there and I 
mean our first lunch we talked for about 
two hours we sat there and talked 
it's about everything so and then we 
just kept talking we kept talking and 
kept talking and kept talking and I was 
like I really like spending time with 
this guy he's really 
enjoyable he's really 
enjoyable um and he showed up and he was 
consistent and reliable and nice oh yes 
really reliable is really he's on time 
if he's you know in the rare occasion 
that he's not he lets you know I mean 
The Narcissist however is not on time 
makes you 
wait um makes you makes you wait and 
it's late to go to your best friend's 
sister's 
junal oh my gosh yes on 
purpose oh God 
yes you kind of know when they're not a 
heart surgeon you know that if they 
can't leave work on time that is's a 
reason right right right right you're 
not saving lives no not no not a surgeon 
not or EMT or whatever right yeah so 
yeah he I mean yes consistent reliable 
you know what you're going to get you 
know if something bad happens they tell 
you oh this this really this thing at 
work today was really awful and I just I 
just need you know I'm gonna go over 
here for just one second because I had a 
really bad not just some you don't know 
why right no explan exp of the silent 
treatment right that's no good 
no the silent treatment is no good in 
general right when somebody's G to give 
you that in the first place and then 
with no explanation come on yeah yeah 
he's never G me the silent treatment but 
everybody has bad days but you just you 
just tell somebody oh my gosh you're 
just not gonna believe this is what 
happened I've had the worst day and you 
know and if you know that if they're not 
their usual 
self that's why no mystery to solve as 
far as what have you done right person 
this way 
or right yeah so yeah just I don't know 
just consistency 
and 
um just H 
enjoying each other's 
company having fun um 
trust all those things and and it's that 
they're there for you you know you you 
know need somebody to take you to your 
colonoscopy you know right right and and 
he appreciates the place that Dave will 
always have in your life oh yeah he he 
knows all about Dave yes he does he does 
yeah and our mutual friend you know this 
is like after our first date and he told 
our mutual friend that he had gone out 
with me and he said I sat him down I 
said I just want to go and tell you you 
know that her her uh husband who passed 
is you know kind of 
a living he was a living legend when he 
was alive he's a legend now and he was 
probably the most popular person in town 
so yeah he knew but he he's his own 
person and it 
doesn't you know phase him um and he's 
very different from 
Dave very different and I know a lot of 
people 
probably when they first meet him my bet 
people are 
shocked because he's so different from 
Dave he's so different he's not the life 
of the 
party but he but he's fun and he's funny 
but it's a different it's different you 
know nothing neither 
one's better or worse than the other 
it's just different um but my my family 
loves him um my niece thumbs up thumbs 
up from Lucy right at the beginning so 
Lucy definitely has a good future Lucy 
if you're listening send me your 
resume you know what she's majoring in 
psychology of course she is yeah she's 
here in Alabama and she's a sophomore 
and she's doing really well so oh good 
for her wow so she's really pretty uh uh 
precocious with regards to her feelings 
about people and you just it if you're 
wired that's what put me into this in 
the first place you know everybody in my 
network will always tell me you just 
know about people I'm like if there's 
someone I don't get a good vibe from I 
don't get a good vibe from them and I 
can't it's like I I would be Lucy like 
okay and now I'm done yeah now I'm done 
right and and so we just I don't know if 
we read energy differently but you can 
see oh that's a wolf and sheep's 
clothing I'm gonna stay away from that 
she knew it immediately it was it was 
quite astounding really she knew it wow 
wow yeah yeah so yeah so we're you know 
now just you know four years later 
um you know we didn't get engaged until 
a few months ago so it wasn't like we 
were in any hurry to do anything you 
know it's 
just you have a a lot of time hopefully 
and there's just no reason to rush into 
anything you no take it slow and and 
what made did you want to get 
engaged you you know I I think I always 
said I wasn't going to get married again 
yeah I know when I saw it on Facebook 
speaking of let's come full circle I see 
Christie on Facebook with a ring and I 
snapshotted it I'm like uh hello 
congratulations and that's how we just 
reconnected in the last few weeks yeah 
so I know and I keep it's funny after we 
got engaged I kept thinking of people 
who I I need I need to make a list of 
everybody I need to tell and and then it 
you know when 
forgetful that's what Facebook does 
Facebook told us all don't worry about 
it it's all good some people you like to 
just go ahead and tell you know before 
you put it on Facebook but anyway um 
yeah so you 
know and my cousin when I my cousin said 
I thought you weren't going to get 
married again and I said well I said 
it's important to 
um our families and it it's important to 
Greg and I'm not totally it's not like 
I'm somebody's dragging me you know into 
somewhere to get married you know I just 
always I think when I said I'm never get 
married again maybe I meant that I'm 
going to be really careful before I get 
married again but yeah um it's important 
to our families and um you know DA's mom 
will be 93 and March and his parents 80 
and 85 and then my my my family 
and 
um you know I just I I just think it 
it's it's important to people who um are 
important to me you 
know I love that and I love how 
important Dave's mom is and she makes 
the top of your list and she wants to 
see you happy yeah you loved her son 
yeah so much yeah you know sometimes you 
it's not all about you you know cuz my 
cousin said well it's about everybody 
but the bride and I'm like no you know I 
made I'm making this Choice they're not 
no one's making me do anything I don't 
you want to you want 
to well how beautiful how amazing I'm so 
happy for you and you guys are the 
cutest couple and you guys I'm gonna put 
a link to chrisy and Greg's uh page on 
our site and is there any advice you'd 
want to give somebody who's lost someone 
they love or maybe they're 
coming out of the narcissistic train 
wreck like is there any kind of pearls 
that you'd want to give to 
somebody I think take it slow like you 
said just really get to know somebody 
yeah really get to know 
somebody um I mean I don't I don't know 
if I advocate snooping but there was 
some snooping that occurred that was 
very helpful yeah it was well it was 
publicly available information you know 
confirmed your 
gut yeah confirmed your gut and you know 
there's a lot to be said for a gut 
feeling 
oh 100% and you had the guts with him 
you had that gut feeling with the snide 
comments yeah it it just took me a while 
because I 
was so 
emotionally damaged or there was 
emotional turmoil in my life so I did 
not my brain was not going to that place 
yet you have trauma brain it's a thing 
yeah it's a thing yeah yeah yeah 
um it's just those things at the 
beginning it's been hindsight and it's 
been five years those those not comments 
I actually 
remember isn't that crazy five years 
later remember even in the midst of your 
trauma you remember the things he said 
that were mean 
little little snod but lot lots of 
little snod comments so under the radar 
that's what everybody needs to really 
also be aware of is a lot of this is so 
under the radar yeah and you don't even 
know that it's happening to you until 
you're flat on your back yeah I A lot of 
times I felt like I was in a movie Just 
watching it like some of the things that 
he did and said I 
it I I couldn't respond it was like I 
was in a 
movie I don't know I I don't it's I 
could tell you a million examples we 
could be on here for three more hours 
and I could tell you the little teeny 
wiy things and not so teeny wiy things 
that occurred that were huge red flags 
wow huge yes like and then I would think 
am I being too demanding and then I 
would ask one of my brothers I'd say 
here's a scenario is this weird yes that 
is 
weird you know so have have some people 
that you can go to who are really good 
gut check 
people yeah know call 
me yeah that I mean that can 
say no that's that's you're not crazy 
that's weird that's weird right and you 
need the truth tellers because a lot of 
people are going to tell you what you 
want to hear it's those people in your 
life that'll go like yeah no that skirt 
doesn't look good on you you need those 
people you need those people in your 
life yeah yeah and then you know okay so 
for anyone out there who's lost someone 
and and I'm so sorry um for anyone who 
has but when you first start dating a 
lot of people that or even your gut 
check people first they're going to want 
to be supportive and they're not going 
to want to poo poo everybody because 
they want you to have start having fun 
and and be happy and they want to be 
supportive so it may this happened to me 
um some of my most honest people for 
just a little while thought something 
weird now they didn't think I was going 
to be murdered or anything of course if 
they thought that somebody's going to 
kill me they would have told me right 
but they for just a little bit they went 
along with it before they said anything 
because everything I've been through wow 
wow so but that you know 
if it didn't that didn't hurt me too 
much and I you know had a good time for 
a while um but that I think sometimes at 
least at first especially if you're a um 
if you've lost your your partner people 
are gonna hesitate for a second before 
they 
say that's weird not good yeah like yeah 
we we don't like him he he creeps us out 
like they're gonna wait for a minute 
before they tell you that that's such a 
good point that I didn't even think 
about that people will be so reticent 
because they want nothing more than for 
you to be happy and they don't want to 
add they don't want to bring you back to 
the place of sadness so they'll say what 
you want to hear yeah yeah and also too 
though to their to their defense or in 
their in their defense The Narcissist 
acts real nice for a little while so 
anybody you know it would take somebody 
like you or my 
niece to who has that spidey sense to 
probably see it that early because they 
are they're over and above and beyond on 
wonderful Behavior yeah and it takes a 
real it takes somebody very 
seasoned and who will speak the truth to 
you right you need two things somebody 
that will see it and say uhuh wolf and 
sheep's clothing we're done and that's 
what we do when you know we help chrisy 
even in the beginning or anybody it's 
helping weed out people just looking at 
their profiles looking at their messages 
listening to the things that they're 
saying which are they lathering it and 
buttering it up too 
heavy right grandiose gestures and they 
make you feel like you're crazy they're 
gaslighting you and like you said am I 
the crazy person did I am I being too 
picky am I being too needy no no if any 
of that sounds like 
you they'll out a contact form on my 
website yeah yeah and and then I don't 
want anyone to think that oh that 
person's kind of boring or they're too 
quiet or right no because Greg Greg 
compared to Dave Greg is quiet 
now as you know our relationship has 
gone through the last four years and 
he's gotten to know my friends and 
family more it he's not really that 
quiet but it you know just get to know 
somebody and you know they don't have to 
be the life of the 
party sometimes you don't want the life 
of the party no no because sometimes 
life of the party comes with a lot of 
the trappings of a narcissist not always 
you can have a Dave who's the life of 
the party but a good standup mench a 
good human being that is a good partner 
but it's hard to tell the wheat from the 
chaff sometimes and you gotta there's no 
substitute for time in the dating 
process and getting to know somebody and 
I just couldn't be happier for you and 
for your love and for the peace and the 
happiness that it's brought to you and 
you have walked through the tunnel of 
fire Professor Christy Reynolds and you 
have been to Hell and back and I'm just 
so happy that you found the second lid 
to your pot and that he's such a cute 
lid and he's the man with the plan and 
that he came home from Germany and just 
kid met all the right things at all the 
right times really that's true and I 
love your analogy about the lid and the 
pot 
because I like to cook and that you know 
I love cooking utensils and cooking 
cookware and all that kind of stuff so 
that's very 
appropriate um for me so uh but yeah 
just don't don't write somebody off if 
you don't think they're exciting if 
they're not exciting enough give them a 
chance give them a chance get to know 
them right and 
sometimes when you're looking for too 
much excitement it's a dysfunctional 
attachment system you're looking for 
someone who's going to put you on pins 
and needles make you feel like you're on 
a roller coaster make you feel like 
you're falling and if a lot of this 
comes down to Childhood patterning and 
attachment stuff and if that is the 
stuff that sounds like your relationship 
pattern that's so much of what we deal 
with help is out there for you you don't 
have to do it alone and I'm glad you 
didn't do it alone me too me 
too well I'm very blessed to have people 
like you that have put your faith in us 
so thank you nothing makes me happier 
than seeing those Rings pop up on 
Facebook well thank you I'm very 
fortunate to have met you too I feel the 
same way well thank goodness John and 
Dana we're shouting you out and 
dedicating this episode to you our 
yentas they matchmade us and now you're 
matchmade that's right that's right 
thank you so much for sharing your story 
you're welcome big love to you and I 
can't wait to see you in Greg in person 
soon I can't wait to see you too thank 
you 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm bellagande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smartdators 
welcome back to your favorite episodes 
which are the drum roll please Smart 
dating Academy love stories I have the 
love story of love stories today from a 
dear client former client and now a dear 
friend who recently got married I 
welcome to our show the most beautiful 
Lila who is going to share with you her 
story of how she's probably like so many 
of you out there and Lila welcome to the 
show hey hey thank you Bella I'm so 
excited to be here uh love and love 
stories are my favorite things to talk 
about uh so it's just wonderful to be 
able to have a foundation and a platform 
to do that today oh my gosh and for 
those of you who don't know Lila her is 
exquisite looking and her before and 
after photos were so awesome and 
dramatic that Lila's photos have 
probably been on every major media 
segment I've done from GMA and the Today 
Show and all over the place and it 
reminds me I should still be using your 
gorgeous photos for before and after so 
tell us how you got kind of you know 
tell us about your life before you and I 
came to our chance meeting in a fitting 
room at the limited absolutely so uh I 
grew up in a very middle class family in 
Milwaukee and met the person that I 
thought I was supposed to spend my life 
with moved to Chicago and started that 
relationship and kind of got my legs in 
Chicago kind of got my first big job and 
was doing all that great stuff very very 
focused on high performance and making 
sure I had a good career career and 
wanted to make space for our family and 
all the things that all of us typically 
would want to experience and manifest 
and so uh 
jumped in all the way and really enjoyed 
having that relationship until I didn't 
and so okay one of the things that was a 
challenge was that relationship didn't 
work and now I had this small child so 
we didn't end up having children or one 
child 
and I probably could have done better in 
that relationship but long story made 
short it didn't work out and so I found 
myself divorced 
um trying to manage a career in business 
school and you know really a single 
parent and so 
talk about transition I mean I was in 
transition and so I tried to focus on 
the things that I could control two 
reasons a makes my ego feel better like 
I can control it right right and what 
you focus on you put more energy into 
you start to become more successful and 
it becomes feeding the Beast 
there you go and I loved it it also 
helped me to numb what wasn't working it 
also helped me to ignore what wasn't 
working because I was getting so many 
accolades over here I didn't have to 
worry about the fact that hey you know 
what you probably haven't really done a 
great job keeping any relationships 
quite candid uh and you're you know your 
dating life is like non-existent and 
spotty and not really where it needs to 
be and or not where you want it to be 
and therefore I didn't focus on it 
because I felt like I don't know what to 
do 
I actually when I got married dating 
sites weren't really a thing you know 
right the uh uh online dating I didn't 
really know about it right 
um and so I was like I'm I'm I am 
feeling consciously incompetent about 
this entire process and on and on and on 
so you and I got a chance to meet and uh 
we had done a spread for uh The Limited 
back when they were still in business 
and I'll never forget being in a 
dressing room and uh you uh you and I 
met strangely the best things that 
happened to me are when my parents are 
down my pants are down and you're like 
hey I'm Helen I was like 
[Laughter] 
um 
uh you you said hey you know who are you 
we start talking and you asked me one 
question you said okay well wow Lila it 
seems like you're hitting on all 
cylinders on everything in your life and 
I was like yes sister let me just tell 
you and then you follow it up with a 
whiz bang and you said How's your love 
life and I wanted to go and hide uh 
because I was like that is not I don't 
have a story there and that's how you 
and I got connected oh my gosh so let me 
add a little watercolor to to this here 
so Lila and I somehow back in 2015 were 
both nominated for something called the 
new look of leadership and this was this 
campaign that the limited had Focus 
grouped lots of their fans and they said 
you know instead of seeing all these 
models we'd like to see like women that 
are our neighbors that you know are 
single moms or moms and they own 
businesses or their corporate Executives 
wearing clothes from the limited so they 
sought out I don't know 30 women from 
Chicago and Lyle and I happen to be in 
this fitting room at this photo shoot 
together and I'll never forget I said oh 
and we were literally couldn't see each 
other but it was this really friendly 
time I said oh what do you do and she's 
like oh I'm in sophomore sales and I 
thought oh for whom and then she told me 
I was like wait you know my friend 
Jackie and she's like wait a second what 
do you do for work I said oh you know I 
started this business it's called Smart 
dating Academy and we do date and 
relationship coaching I think you might 
have peered your head over my fitting 
room wall and I think you might have 
said 
um we need to talk 
so we exchanged phone numbers we texted 
a couple days later and I probably have 
this text in my phone it says I would 
like to have lunch with you on Tuesday 
at 12 o'clock and we can meet wherever 
you would like very Lila style and as my 
friend Jackie told me when Lila when 
Lila's drinking something you want what 
Lyle is drinking right so I said 
absolutely Lila we're gonna let's meet 
and we met at summer house in Lincoln 
Park and we had lunch and the rest 
history history you're like yes 
I need to do this right and we talked 
about fixing Pickers and how we all have 
patterns in the people that we've chosen 
in the past we've all I wish I could see 
a show of your hands dear listeners how 
many of us have picked red flaggy 
narcissistic swaggery highly Alpha 
people right not you Lila Not Me Bella 
she just crossed her eyes 
I I I 
um all I can say is you were a force to 
be dealt with because I always felt like 
I have all the answers 
just ask me and we were sitting out that 
lunch and you were like hey this is what 
I do this is how I do it today and I was 
like oh I don't know I don't know if I 
really need that and you know I don't 
know if it's really worth it and do I 
really want to pull the trigger on this 
and you said one thing to me you said I 
don't know well 
how much did it cost to get out of your 
last relationship 
and I was like 
sign me up 
what's the what was the cost of your 
divorce right on 
unbelievable for those of you who don't 
know they didn't always go the way you 
think and so uh that was just something 
I wasn't prepared for I didn't know that 
that could happen I didn't realize and 
so 
it was very expensive it was not 
something I had budgeted so besides the 
emotional challenges that you have to 
deal with with that then there's the 
financial challenges you have to deal 
with that especially if one party makes 
more than the other and so those are all 
things that were kind of swirling in my 
head and uh I had to admit that hey the 
way that I've been going and what I've 
been doing isn't working as evidenced by 
the outcomes and sometimes it takes a 
little bit of swallowing your pride and 
your ego to be able to accept help and 
have somebody say Hey listen we do 
something different and what I love 
about you Bella is that you had the guts 
and the courage to say it that was 
fantastic and that's how we got started 
and that's how we got started and then 
you started coaching with my esteemed 
colleague Lindsay so tell us about the 
journey what started what start like 
tell kind of take us through in as much 
detail as you remember what happened it 
was great there were things I was 
uncomfortable with 
we do that 
you can't grow unless you're willing to 
be comfortable so I'm like all right 
great we're going to get into this and I 
wanted to jump right into tactical let's 
get the profile design you're like 
let's let's take some steps back and you 
guys gave me like I don't know a book 
list and like some homework and I'm like 
wait a minute I don't want to do any 
homework right and I remember getting 
the book attached and one of the first 
things that Lindsay said was to read it 
and you know I was like oh man I gotta 
read the book but from the second I 
opened it it was like I was like oh my 
gosh this makes so much sense you know 
trying to find out if I was uh what is 
it avoidant or anxious or there's a 
couple different ones and so I'm like oh 
my goodness I want to find out like 
which one I am so I can understand what 
my patterns are and why do I keep 
choosing other avoidance So Not only was 
I avoid I kept choosing avoidance and 
then I realized that my pattern was to 
pick somebody who wasn't avoided make 
them a project and try to turn them into 
a secure which is impossible 
absolutely impossible but I didn't 
realize that's what I was doing and so 
so the coaching with Lindsay she's like 
that's yeah that's what you're doing I 
remember having to write out like what 
went wrong in my relationship something 
that I had never written before right so 
I went through all those change paid all 
that money 
but never stopped to write down like why 
didn't this work 
right the other thing that I was super 
uncomfortable with but it was helpful 
was I had to send an email to my friends 
saying why do you feel like I haven't 
found the right partner it was like a 
you know relationship 360 and the 
response didn't come back to me also not 
comfortable with that uh and so you know 
Lindsay kind of got all these inputs and 
it was super helpful for me to be able 
to take a step back and be like okay 
let's look at some of the patterns what 
are you doing and I had to write out 
like all these different things about 
different relationships that I'd had and 
that was so therapeutic for me that was 
so therapeutic for me and so by the time 
we actually kind of got to 
saying hey here's what the plan is for 
Lila I had gotten a chance to educate 
myself I'd gotten a chance to take a 
look at what my patterns were so that I 
didn't repeat them again and I felt 
really strong and secure that I was 
ready to take on the energy of this next 
phase because I didn't have time right 
this other thing people are like Oh I'm 
a fine relationship I was definitely 
that person I was like dude I got I'm in 
I'm in business school going to school 
at night got my my child I've got a real 
I've got a career I don't have any time 
and for those of you who have you know 
you're doing co-parenting you know that 
you only get two weekends a month right 
and it's like you know how much am I 
gonna really spend time those two 
weekends in a month and so I needed a 
system and I needed a way to be able to 
figure things out and so that was super 
super helpful to be able to have that 
coaching and so the other thing I 
remember is one of the prompts was write 
out your ideal guy right now you want 
your ideal guy or girl write out all 
their qualities and I wrote you know 
tall good looking well dressed 
and uh I wrote all those things down and 
then I remember Lindsay saying all right 
now write down all the the uh 
traits of a friend 
they were completely different and I 
remember saying to me all right Lila now 
the goal is to be able to find somebody 
and the friend that has the friend trait 
and I'm like but how will I ever notice 
that person these other things I can see 
these traits that you have written down 
here for the people who are my close 
friends it took me forever to get to 
that like I How would how how do I how 
do I find them in a bar right they're 
not holding a sign that says I'm these 
people how do I see that on Match right 
how do I see that on an online game 
she's like you don't you give it time so 
that you can find out and I was just 
like oh that sounds like it's gonna take 
a really long time I didn't want to do 
it by the way I don't want to do it I 
was like you know what I don't do that 
like I just want it figured out for me 
and she's like unfortunately it's not 
just figured out for you you have to 
give it time and I go well how will I do 
that she goes you have to go on dates 
and learn and see what happens and I go 
well how many days is it gonna take she 
goes I don't know I don't know how long 
it's gonna take she goes But ultimately 
you have to give yourself time 
to be able to see these things and by 
the way when you're doing it you can't 
be sleeping with the person and I was 
like oh I am out 
[Laughter] 
[Music] 
uh really I'll never forget we were at I 
think it was Four Seasons we were having 
glass champagne and she was talking she 
was giving me all these you know kind of 
here's your plan and uh she was like 
well Lila you know the plan is that you 
know you're gonna be on Match for this 
much time you're not gonna you know we 
just have very specific things but none 
of them were oh you get a chance to date 
and kind of have this relationship 
because one of the things I learned in 
attached was you know once you start 
sleeping with somebody then you get 
oxytocin exchange and that makes you 
attached it's like the same thing as 
what you exchange when you're 
breastfeeding a baby I didn't know that 
so how are you going to be able to see 
these things and stay objective if 
you've got oxytocin floating around and 
I was just like oh man come on so she's 
like no that's that's the plan this is 
what we have to do 
and so I felt like I was leaving with 
like how am I gonna do that I was like I 
really want those things but I still 
just don't know how to do it and she 
said just give it time I go well how do 
you know it is time she goes when you're 
having two or three dates in one day 
or week 
and I go 
I don't have time for two or three dates 
in one week 
and she's like that's that's how you 
know when you can when you will 
prioritize it so that you're seeing this 
person all the time that's when you know 
that you're connected it's safe and it's 
and it's you know you've you've now 
started to build these traits and you 
can see these traits play out hey I've 
never done that before in any dating and 
you all know your listener we are slow 
and steady right we do a day to week for 
a few weeks and if that person doesn't 
throw down red flags and seems like 
they've got all your high ghqs high and 
good husband qualities because Lyle is 
female looking for a male we and it's a 
date of a week and then when he doesn't 
throw down any red flags seems like he's 
tracking for the qualities that make you 
happy then you can increase it to two 
dates a week then maybe over the third 
month you ramp that up to three dates a 
week and then you get exclusive so 
there's a whole method to this which 
she's Crossing her eyes right now right 
it's it's a big deal and it is so 
different because everyone we're not 
taught how to do this we're not taught 
how to date right so when we come in and 
we're like here's what you're going to 
do and we're going to survey your 
friends and family and I love data for 
those of you that know me I'm a former 
Finance person ran an engineering 
company everything I want to have a good 
sample set I want to know what I think I 
want to know what Lila thinks I want to 
know what her people think about her 
dating history and that gives us this 
comprehensive set of facts to really 
guide people through this comfortable 
not always effective let's get into that 
now so 
very effective 
um so after Lindsay kind of gave me that 
rundown you know I I was 
like I want to do it right and so she's 
like really well 
this is what your sister said in the 
feedback and this is what your friend 
said in the feedback and I was like oh 
my God oh my gosh they said that and 
she's like yeah and I was like oh no 
dang that's that's probably true and 
she's like yeah so why don't we try 
something different so I was finally 
bought in it took a little bit just I'll 
be I'll tell you I was resistant it's 
hard to change sure and uh I was like 
all right I'll sign up for your program 
right I'll do the whole time I had 
already signed up but I was like I'll 
actually take action on it right because 
there's one thing to say yes I want to 
work with you it's another thing to 
actually do it right you do the work 
make to do it right and so I said I'm in 
all right I'm in give me your program it 
certainly can't be any worse than 
something I've done in the past and I 
and I and I follow the rules Hook Line 
Sinker and uh you did I'll tell you you 
know everything from the photo shoot to 
writing the script and the emails and 
all that making it so that I had it down 
to a science which was helpful for me 
because I'm a seller right so that whole 
idea of kind of building a pipeline made 
sense to me right and it's like you know 
you're not going to close on your first 
coffee you need time to kind of float it 
out right and so that made a lot of 
sense to me that was actually kind of 
fun that was a ton of fun just kind of 
going through and then having like the 
the Google voice that went to that one 
first and having the interactions with 
the people so that they would ask me for 
my telephone number and some people 
didn't I remember you saying this is not 
about a pen pal relationship we're not 
trying to have weeks and weeks of pen 
pal we want people to ask you for your 
number and that's it and that was easier 
to close for and I wasn't so attached to 
it emotionally I also remember her 
saying you're not allowed to reach out 
to anybody for the first two or three 
weeks they have to reach out to you and 
then we switched it yeah then I could 
reach out to people and actually I met 
my now husband from a reach out and it 
was funny because I would probably have 
never picked him up right okay go there 
let's okay you're dating all these 
people you got your funnel you've got 
lot Lila when you see her photos you all 
you're going to look at our website 
She's stunning okay the girls breaking 
the internet at this point there is no 
lack of dates going on so now you're 
sitting down you're dating in a 
different way but this was a long time 
into the process this wasn't right away 
no how long had you been dating was it a 
year 
no no no no no so you and I started 
somewhere in the October time frame in 
2015 and I think my profile got up and 
going by like January right so January 
of 2016 is when my profile actually 
happened so I was only dating for about 
a month of just random now granted I've 
been divorced and doing my own random 
stuff yeah aside for a while but as far 
as your program it was about a month and 
uh so that first month I couldn't reach 
out to anybody I had to just take the 
flow coming in right and they had to go 
through my process it was funny because 
some people are like oh I've got a I've 
gotta when they've got the Google Voice 
they're like I have to like you know 
have you paid or oh I have to have an 
exact time to talk to you because like I 
can talk on this timer this time at this 
time and a lot of people would filter 
themselves out they're like I'm not 
going to schedule an appointment great 
buzz off bye there were all of these 
kind of barriers to get people to opt 
out which was great because you didn't 
care because you're like I'm not looking 
for Mr right I'm just going through this 
program right 
um so the second month I was allowed to 
reach out to people and that was hey 
you're going to reach out to I think it 
was I don't know you guys gave me some 
quota for today three to five people per 
day yep and you're like hey and we 
already had everything pre-written so it 
wasn't a lot of time I was just like all 
right I got 15 minutes right and uh 
you're like you're not looking for Mr 
right you're not looking for profile all 
you're looking for is for the person to 
have interesting photos not one 
not one photo no photos with kids in 
them and you had all those different 
things but just nothing negative in 
their profile that's all you're looking 
for is nothing negative in their profile 
they seem like fun that's it and so it 
was easy I was like oh well great 
I had like it was really really simple 
because I wasn't overthinking it and one 
of those emails was one of those reach 
outs was to my husband and you did the 
reach out to him 
and now let's just ask this question was 
he 
what Drew you to him and was he like the 
people you had dated and married in the 
past 
so no no not at all not at all what drew 
me to him is he had he seemed like fun 
like he didn't take himself too 
seriously he had like all these pictures 
of him on the beach where the Santa hat 
on with all these different people and 
he just seemed like fun and actually it 
stood out because most guys don't have 
all that they've got them like some 
sporting event you know or yeah or 
taking the picture or you know what I 
mean like guys usually didn't have a ton 
of pictures right or them it's um you 
know as you could tell it was that then 
LinkedIn profile shot which was also 
kind of just not stuffy and so he had so 
many photos 
oh he didn't take himself too seriously 
I can tell he was kind of funny and I 
was like okay I get enough right like 
and it was that's all I thought 
okay so he looked cute to you now you 
send your first volley over that and 
that a message now let's go step by step 
through what happened because I love all 
of this 
so it's now end of january-ish or early 
February 
and uh I send that volley out now 
granted I've already got flow right so 
I've already had like one or two dates 
with other people right there's deal 
flow coming through 
um and I throw the volley over and he 
bites and he says are you real 
and I'm like I'm real he's like because 
your email or your your message seems so 
professional it almost seems like it's 
not real and I'm like I'm real and so I 
then I have my next kind of already 
pre-written message set up and he goes 
wow are you a poet because you speak so 
well and I'm like no I'm not a poem I'm 
just a person then bam the next email 
because again I'm just trying to get him 
to ask for my number right right and 
right on time he asked for my number and 
he goes well you know can I have your 
number we should talk and I gave him the 
Spiel I was like hey I'm free Sunday at 
one 
whatever it was so he calls me and he 
has an accent and he's not originally 
from the United States and now did you 
know that before did you know that no no 
because I had never talked to him before 
so he's right it was only kind of the 
the chat uh and so he calls me on my 
Google Voice number and uh 
he says hey I'm Donnie 
and uh I was like wow he's got a really 
thick accent and so he's like you know I 
have to tell you Lila I'm really better 
in person a lot of times people can't 
understand me over the phone so if 
you're free maybe we could get together 
for a coffee and I'm like well it was a 
Sunday I just so happened to not have my 
daughter it just so happened to actually 
be available and I was like I'm actually 
apparently usually I would have like 
booked it out I was like I'm actually 
available this afternoon and he was like 
great you know where would you like to 
get together I'm like well I'm in this 
area he's like I'm actually in that area 
too 
we ended up we ended up living only 
about a mile and a half from each other 
too much crazy so it was easy for us to 
like find a place at the time was in 
Andersonville to have a coffee he was 
like why don't we have a coffee today 
and I'm like okay well sure let's do it 
so we got together like an hour and a 
half later and I walked into the the 
coffee shop he was already there sitting 
down grab my coffee 
and I'll never forget looking over at 
him he was sitting in this area that was 
super sunny and he had the biggest smile 
on his face and I was like oh he's cute 
and he did he look like his photos 
he was cuter in person of course because 
you get like sunglasses on and some of 
them anyway so I came over and I sat 
down and we talked and I thought he was 
cute 
and uh I remember him saying you know 
when you come to my country we'll do X Y 
and Z and I was thinking dude I remember 
coming to your country I don't even know 
if we were going to see you again like 
this is just kind of a part of my flow 
right uh and he was just really nice and 
so then at the end of the day uh we were 
about to leave and and I was like okay 
because I always just would catch an 
Uber to go home because no way am I 
getting anybody's car uh and he was like 
well I can drive you and I'm like I 
don't know you stranger danger so I'll 
just wait for an Uber and he was like my 
car is right here 
and I'm like I don't know something 
about the guy just seems nice maybe I 
should go with it so I did your God said 
go and I remember his car had so much 
stuff in and I could tell I was like oh 
he is a dad which I knew he you know and 
I could just see all the baby stuff in 
the car and that actually endeared me to 
him sure oh so not only does he have a 
child but he's like engaged with the kid 
right he's in it there's Cheez-Its 
crushed cheese crackers and as a you 
know single mom I was like I get it 
right now I was like oh this is even 
though you know not that usually would 
have driven me crazy like oh my gosh to 
clean up your car that day it was like 
okay so this is he's a just a normal 
person super engaging this kid and I 
actually like that 
so he gives me a ride and I'll give him 
my exact address I'm like you can just 
drop me off at this corner close to it 
right right and uh that was our first 
date 
oh my gosh so was he better in person 
oh my gosh 150 yes I'm so happy that we 
just didn't just do the call he was 
better in person just a warm Charming 
sweet person 
okay now so the first day it's good now 
what happens you've got some deal flow 
how where does this mysterious gentleman 
Donnie can we say what country he's from 
he's from Spain you guys 
and it's phenomenal so 
I really liked him but I had a lot of 
things to do right so and I've got you 
know and I was still in the program and 
we were still like you know flowing and 
he was like well hey let's get together 
again and I was like yeah but like if I 
had to schedule it I'm like dude I 
schedule a month and a half out and I 
know that sounds crazy but I couldn't do 
stuff during the week because I had to 
go to school at night and I had homework 
and I you know and so I really only had 
two weekends a month and I would plan 
those in advance right and so it's like 
okay I don't have another free Friday 
lunch or whatever until like a month 
from now right 
um and so people had to be cool with 
that and a lot of people weren't people 
were like no I kind of want to wait for 
you that long and you're like great the 
red flag I said well we'll tell you like 
I went on dates but we're like yeah I 
never really get back to girls they 
don't really like me because I'm just 
not like available and you'd be like 
oh what's wrong with you people will 
tell you like when you're not like 
trying to hook up with them and you're 
you're your emotional bank account isn't 
at zero and you're like no I have a plan 
and you're feeling secure 
you'll be like what is the 
how did I not see like this kind of 
stuff before and I also didn't drink so 
I didn't drink when I went out on dates 
and I would only meet people for lunch 
I would not go out on evening dates 
because I didn't want to have the 
pressure of you know having that awkward 
you know thing of who's going to kiss 
and we're gonna go and I also didn't 
drink so I didn't want that to kind of 
slur my thinking we all know our 
thinking a little slurred so uh those 
were kind of my two kind of benchmarks 
that I had as well 
um and so yeah we had our initial date I 
couldn't get back get them back on the 
calendar uh for about another month and 
so our second date he was like what I 
really liked he was like okay great it 
was also a Sunday Sundays afternoons 
were our time right so a month later 
dude says fine I'll take a month from 
now yeah I love that about him he didn't 
give me crap he wasn't liking to you 
know and then sometimes you get each 
other's like number and then they're 
just texting you all 
if you're like dude I 
like I I can't do that much right away 
like that right 
um it was a month and a half it was a 
Sunday again and uh he said I will set 
up the reservations now that was 
different to me because a lot of guys 
were like let's get together and I was a 
vegetarian this time and they'd be like 
well I don't know anything about 
vegetarian so you got to figure it all 
out red flag 
the guys just don't right so he was like 
I got it I got it set up we'll go to 
this place it's good for vegetarians so 
he had it all set up 
we went and we had uh brunch together 
and man was it fun we had a great I 
talked his era uh and uh it was just so 
relaxing and so easy right easy easy and 
um after brunch he's like why don't we 
walk to Foster Beach we walked over to 
Foster Beach because it was close by and 
again this is we're both in the same 
neighborhood so that helped right like 
that helped 
um and uh we walked to Foster Beach and 
we're looking at the beach and I'll 
never forget he he he looks at me and he 
gives me a kiss and I'm like oh oh my 
gosh oh my gosh oh my gosh oh my gosh 
and so I'm like I don't know what to do 
I don't know if that's okay I don't just 
do I don't know what to do uh but it 
felt great and so I was like you know 
what that's all right just flow with it 
and uh we walked back to the car 
and I got in the car and he was like I'd 
love to see you again and I was like 
yeah definitely now that was in like I 
don't know maybe april-ish late March 
early April 
I didn't see him again we had a lunch 
date for the next month and I got crazy 
with work and I had to cancel then my 
mom came to live with us or not came to 
live my mom came to stay for an extended 
period of time and I just didn't have it 
I was like I don't have that extra 
moment or I didn't for whatever reason 
I just didn't have it as a matter of 
fact I was so like done my three months 
was up 
I wanted to just kind of have nothing 
for a little while I just needed nothing 
for the law so I actually didn't make 
the date with him and it's gonna make me 
feel bad about it he just said no 
problem and he didn't text me again 
another great thing he wasn't like oh 
let's get together he was just like I 
get it let me know when you're not busy 
great so uh I had a period where I just 
did nothing I didn't I wasn't online I 
wasn't here I just did nothing right 
um and then towards the end of July 
towards the end of June now you've had 
two dates with the man okay two dates 
and now we're going from January 
and now we're in June okay so for those 
of you who are like no guys will just 
flake out just keep listening to this 
okay now we're five months later I know 
I know and I don't know what happened 
but that day I was I remember where I 
was I was at Montreal speech and 
I was doing something and I thought of 
him and I was like you know what I owe 
him dinner he bought me lunch I blew him 
off for the second time we used to get 
together 
I owe that guy dinner and he and you 
know Lindsay and I when we've been 
talking I was like I really like Donnie 
I really like Donnie she's like I don't 
know you should think about Donnie and 
uh uh 
I said I really like him a lot and so I 
said you know what I'm gonna reach out 
to him and if he responds great I don't 
know what he's up to it doesn't matter 
but I'm just gonna say Hey listen and I 
remember the text I said hey 
um you probably don't remember me 
but you and I had a couple of dates and 
I know it's been a long time but I'd 
love it if you'd let me make up the the 
I love it if you let me make it up to 
you by treating you to dinner next 
Friday 
just that's it that was the whole text 
and uh 
he responded and he was like of course I 
remember you 
and I would love to get together for 
dinner but I'm in Argentina wherever he 
was I was traveling uh and so I can't 
get together with you until the end of 
the month which is the best response 
ever you like for me it was great that 
he wasn't just like sitting around 
eating Captain Crunch just waiting for 
something he was like yeah I'm busy I'm 
doing my thing I got a life too I got a 
life too you're gonna have to wait Lila 
that was the best thing for me so we so 
we wait and I've made reservations for 
this place 
it was my first dinner date after all 
that I was like I'm ready for a dinner 
date it's been several months I'll give 
the guys Saturday I'll give the guy 
uh and so I was sitting there waiting 
for him I was nervous I was nervous 
because I was like but I love this he 
didn't give me any crap about not 
reaching out or not being available he 
just 
just easy breezy easy breezy so I'm 
sitting there and I see him walk up to 
the restaurant he's black shirt on black 
pants and I was like wait is that him he 
had cut his hair and he I don't know 
what he did but man oh man when he 
walked into that restaurant I was like 
I don't know if it was just Tanner I 
don't know what it was but I was just 
like oh that's him oh that's a fine man 
that just walked in and I asked that's 
him yeah yeah and I was like oh he's 
cute oh my goodness he's cute right 
um and so we had a nice lunch or a nice 
dinner it didn't take more than an hour 
and a half because I don't like long 
dinners and so I was like well great it 
was great to see you Donnie and uh you 
know 
blah blah 
so he goes so are you busy right now and 
I was like well it's just you know it's 
ten I'm an early night girl right 
because I didn't want to have that 
weirdness right and uh 
he was like well I would love it if I 
could take you out dancing I'm like you 
want to take me out dancing and he's 
like yeah and I was like well what if we 
don't have it planned we're going he's 
like no no 
I know and I'm like really he's like 
yeah and so we get into an Uber and we 
go to some place downtown and we saw 
sedans and I mean we had 
we had a great time I was like this is 
awesome he was so much fun and you know 
I let go of the Rings I let him kind of 
manage and we were in an Uber going back 
and uh I was like I've had so much fun 
with you and he was like I've had fun 
with you too and now he's like but you 
know Lila we could have more fun I said 
what do you mean he goes you just need 
to be available 
been a really long time since I've seen 
that gave me goosebumps you just need to 
be available hi avoidant nice to meet 
you 
he's like you just need to be 
available and you know what I was like 
the last time we got together was March 
not too much to add like I was like you 
make a strong point right right we can 
we can do this more than quarterly 
tell you we went from 
that date to having a date once a week 
and then we went from once a week at our 
high point we did get to 
uh every every day so I could get 
together with them early in the morning 
then he had to pick up his son and then 
we could get together like midday 
because he was coaching doing some other 
stuff and I could get together with him 
for lunch and then after my classes were 
over and I had everything done and he 
was done with everything at like 10 30 
at night we'd get together again and I 
mean we were like 
we were like Inseparable and it was 
great and it was easy it was the first 
time I'd ever been in a relationship 
where I was like this is the most 
natural easy thing I've ever experienced 
it just it just flowed and to be candid 
with you it still is it still is it 
still is that's my story 
it still is and how did you know your 
culturally different and that's a hard 
thing sometimes for people to get their 
arms around could I date someone who is 
a different ethnicity A different race a 
different culture you had all like how 
did you imagine where you would be 
versus where you are and how has that 
been to navigate 
so it is it is an effort right so first 
off you've got to be open to cultures 
which I was 
um I was already very familiar with the 
European culture for whatever reason I 
just was it just felt natural what I 
liked was his values right in in his 
culture it's all about family it's all 
about slowing things down savoring the 
moment that was quite can't believe the 
opposite of what I was used to so I 
really enjoyed and thought it was 
refreshing and exciting and adventurous 
to be with somebody who was of a 
different culture right the race wasn't 
as important it was more of just a 
different culture and bringing something 
new and different to even my experience 
right 
um so that actually wasn't a hard thing 
for me to get over and it was less about 
what we were different 
in it was more about are we aligned on 
our values and be candid with you you 
know I already had a child here I had a 
child and one of the things Lindsay 
coached me early on to say was do you 
want more children 
right because if you don't ask that 
question and if the answer to that 
question would have been different I 
would have to like hey this is fun I 
don't let you go why because I knew I 
didn't want to be pressured to have a 
child for somebody when they gave that 
answer of someday someday no I'm done I 
am done 
issue later and so we were just aligned 
on like nope and interestingly enough he 
also was divorced and had a very young 
child right very young child so he was 
almost like we were you know we were in 
the right place of Life at the same time 
I had dated people were like you know 10 
years older than me and their kids were 
in college and it was like yeah I know 
all about kids I know all about and 
you're like do you because like I still 
need to be like you know having Friday 
nights eat looking at you know Frozen 
and they didn't really want to do that 
they're like no I don't want to do this 
I want to go out and you're like so 
we're not at the same place in life 
right the good thing about he and I was 
we were in the same place in life and so 
that really really helped more so than 
where he was culturally where I was or 
my race or whatever like that was less 
of a concern 
um 
yeah I love that I love that and he's a 
totally different package and yet the 
perfect live to your pot oh yeah we 
climbed Kilimanjaro in 2018 together oh 
God yes okay let's get to the story so 
now we've been dating yep okay we're 
dating start dating in 2016. 2018 I 
finished my NBA and then I was like all 
right it was a part of finishing my MBA 
I want to climb Kilimanjaro never been 
camping just yeah let's just do that and 
uh so we decided to start training for 
that blah blah so summer of 2018 and 
we're we were in Tanzania we were 
sleeping in a tent for seven days 
there's no bathrooms really and like you 
know you're living on the land and I 
said you know if we can get through this 
together then he's probably the right 
person and so we uh summited which was 
great and had this great experience and 
when we came down and had our Victory 
dinner after taking a shower for the 
first time in seven weeks I can't even 
tell you how much dirt was under my 
seven weeks I'm sorry about 10 weeks 
seven days oh Jesus I've been taking a 
shower in seven days and uh yeah so 
anyway after taking our shower and 
getting to our Victory dinner we yeah 
we're with other people as well 
decided to ask him to marry me okay wait 
say that again you decided what I 
decided to ask him to marry me now I did 
not check that with him first right 
because I had gone through this really 
terrible divorce lost so much money and 
I was like no I don't want to be married 
but whatever reason I decided that that 
when if we could get if we could climb 
Kilimanjaro together that would be a 
sign to say this is the right one and so 
uh and I realized I didn't really have a 
problem with being married I had a 
problem with losing money again which 
there's things you can do to manage that 
so I'm like all right well if I can just 
manage that then I don't have to have my 
life you know I can move forward down 
this path so 
uh 
we're sitting at dinner I told one of 
the other people like hey I'm going to 
ask him to marry me tonight so can you 
get it on my phone it's a great video he 
has no idea it's coming none you guys 
don't talk about getting married but I 
remember you called me before you went 
and you told me you bought a climbing 
ring some REI and you're like what do 
you think I'm like do it I 
I'm so I'm waiting so she's got this 
climbing ring which I think is a ring 
that you buy for yourself that shows I 
made it up the summit well it's just a 
plastic ring because climbers don't want 
metal oh okay 
and so you can get it so yes so I got 
this climber's ring and uh I start 
telling this story about life and 
happiness and he's like sitting there 
like yeah I'm alive let's tell them one 
of our stories and I said and uh you 
know Donna you were a key part of a lot 
of the joy that's been in my life and so 
I thought this would be a great time to 
ask you to marry me and he's like 
what did you just say like you it was so 
funny he was just like 
um uh 
did you 
just said I do not and how many people 
were in the room now at this point eight 
no 12. people we we summon it with I 
asked them these are the folks we've 
been living with now for the last you 
know seven days 
and so he's there I don't recommend it 
by the way definitely he paused for 
about 30 seconds it felt like like a 
half an hour 
um and I've got like the people ready 
with champagne and a cake which sounds 
like a small thing but in Tanzania there 
is no like you know Jewel you can go to 
somebody's mama has to make the cake and 
like yeah anyway so I've got everything 
ready right and uh they're waiting for 
him to say yes talk about role reversal 
and he's looking at me like I can't 
believe you just said that he goes 
oh yeah yeah yes yes 
I love that oh he says yes they bring 
out the cake I am relieved and happy and 
thank you Lila why did you do that that 
was a terrible way to ask and uh we had 
this huge celebration it was great and 
the next day I said now listen I realize 
I put you on the spot so you know the 
people who are here we never have to see 
them again we can wait we don't have to 
tell people why don't you try it on for 
a little while and see how it feels and 
then if we decide we still want to like 
you know go down this path we can so I 
kind of gave him an out 
thank God he was like you know I 
appreciate that because that was a 
surprise and I want to know what changed 
and blah blah long story made short we 
came back and we waited until 
Thanksgiving to tell our kids and our 
family how many months July August we 
waited until like November to really 
tell people 
um and uh because he needed to be ready 
too right and I was totally fine with 
that I was like brother take your time 
you know I made to ask I made the ask 
right you did it I made the ask and that 
was and you said yes and I'm okay with 
whatever happens from here out 
I made the ask right and so uh yeah so 
we we told the family and then uh we set 
up our wedding for Spain and then it was 
covid so we had to cancel it and so we 
ended up getting married in Puerto Rico 
we eloped and it was amazing and yeah 
the rest is history I was going to come 
to your wedding in 
in Spain I know but then that dreaded 
darn pandemic came into the middle of it 
all I couldn't be happier for you and 
for those I mean I want you to know and 
this was not your first go-around with 
marriage right I mean it can happen 
yeah it was probably my third go-round 
I'm not the first one 
the first one you know happened kind of 
like a mulligan right it's a do-over 
then there was that second one and now 
three times a charm I always say the 
first the first is too young the second 
one he was just the wrong person it's 
just the wrong person uh and then the 
third one is was the one is the right 
one and you know what I like about the 
about this time around I chose him 
the other two times the people chose me 
and I was like okay and I kind of went 
along with it this time I chose I chose 
him all the way through and that has 
worked out oh that gave me goosebumps 
and from every you sent the first 
message you controlled the speed of the 
relationship you asked him out in the 
second quarter for this game 
okay right and you dated for years and 
it was easy and you decided 
I do want to be married to him and Li 
and dear listeners so many of us are 
like God divorce sucks God marriage 
sucks I don't ever want to do that again 
but what I will tell you is just like 
Sweet Lila when you meet the right lid 
to your pot that can change 
that can change and you never know 
what's going to happen and if there is a 
story and a situation that can inspire 
you to go here's this girl that came in 
who was like it's going to be on my 
terms ends up 
so to some extent you control the terms 
and yet 
he took you salsa dancing yeah 
yeah yeah I mean it was a nice little 
ballet of you know kind of back and 
forth I got a chance to play the role 
that I felt was the most safe right I 
never had anybody kind of like getting 
into my boundaries or me feeling like I 
needed to I didn't want any of that 
because I had been through so much of 
that already right all this expectation 
that people have like this and you're 
then yeah I I really needed somebody who 
could kind of meet me where I was at and 
then we could fast forward together and 
he's always risen to the occasion every 
single time he's like okay wait you want 
to do what I'm down he's always been 
okay with that right which is great 
that's what I needed that's what I 
needed I just didn't know yeah you need 
a partner that's right a partner a 
partner a great partner we still have so 
much fun together we have so much fun 
together and I'm so grateful that I get 
a chance to experience this part of my 
life with him 
I have full body Goosebumps I couldn't 
be happier for you and I'm so honored to 
you know just have met you in that 
fitting room that day 
it nothing is coincidence right nothing 
is coincidence and just the way this is 
played out right that was just the 
beginning of a whole bunch of pieces 
falling into place for me so you're 
coaching your guidance your firm hands 
sometimes when you needed it 
um has made all the difference for me in 
the world and I will tell you I remember 
you saying a lot of people go through my 
program don't just get better in their 
relationships they also get better in 
their careers my career has taken off it 
has taken off by applying some of the 
same principles right to for what you 
told me and managing like okay make sure 
you understand who you are make sure you 
understand what you're doing and make 
sure you understand how you're showing 
up and how are people receiving you 
right all that has to do with it it's 
not just the dating piece it's you as a 
whole and so uh my life has just 
has just been amazing I will tell you 
and it just continues to expand all the 
time oh my gosh you went from a rock 
star software sales person now you're a 
yoga teacher you're a speaker that 
commands five digits to speak because 
you speak on and we're like giving each 
other badass looks across the the screen 
here you've built the life you love and 
you have so much love in your life I do 
I do and they all go together so if 
anybody my message to everybody anybody 
who's listening to this if anything I 
said to you 
um real you know you can resonate with 
it or you're like okay that speaks to me 
take action 
do something give yourself an 
opportunity to try something different 
or new give yourself the opportunity and 
the compassion to learn a new way of 
being so that you can get different 
results if you want things to change you 
have to change and that's the hardest 
part it's you changing right letting go 
of those old patterns that don't serve 
us maybe they make us feel good but they 
don't serve us right and it takes a 
strong person emotionally people say I 
need help here 
I need help absolutely and 
I'm so glad that we were a step in your 
process I'm just grateful to know you 
and uh and I love this story it's like 
the best part of my job getting to 
relive these fun stories and fun moments 
and the fact that you have so much love 
has changed the trajectory of your 
daughter's life has changed the 
trajectory of your stepson's life 
because they're going to grow up in 
healthy happy fun homes you have changed 
generationally what will happen in your 
families 
that is such a strong statement now that 
gave me goosebumps 
you're right that's how important this 
stuff is and we take it so casually like 
it's just something to do no it's that 
important it's that important yeah it is 
that important and if you're debating 
whether or not Coulda Woulda should have 
and if you're able to do this do it 
because you're not only changing your 
life but you're changing the lives of 
those around you in conceivably profound 
ways that you can't even imagine and 
isn't that exciting thank you Bella 
thank you for all that you do thank you 
for everything that you're putting out 
into the world thank you for helping 
people to find their true selves so that 
they can show up and attract what they 
actually want 
I love you Lila mwah I get to have 
drinks with you probably by the time 
this episode is dropping we will be 
downtown having something non-alcoholic 
together I might be having some 
champagne even though she won't share 
champagne with me anymore 
[Music] 
Jamaican diamond 
s we love you thank you for sharing your 
story made my day 
smart daters until we meet again take 
some inspiration do something for 
yourself take that change follow me on 
Instagram at smartdatingacademy sign up 
for our newsletter at 
smartdatingacademy.com and if you are 
called to make a real change in your 
life send us an email about coaching 
with us and get on the wait list until 
next week I bid you farewell 


do you have any gems you'd like to drop 
on a listener while you're here just be 
open like get out of your head go out 
have fun say yes go out and experience 
life and live life well I just see 
people who get so sad that they aren't 
with somebody whatever and they're 
almost making themselves smaller too 
like make yourself bigger like make 
yourself open to experience and doing 
things and see what comes your way and 
maybe it'll come your way and maybe it 
won't but in the meantime you got to 
experience life and that's not a bad 
thing oh what great advice and I'm so 
grateful that you chose to put your 
dating life in our hands and very 
honored to have you as a client and as a 
friend thank you thank you I do think 
that you're probably going to have to 
give a little um you know subsidy to 
Dana and Sarah Jane at some point you 
might need to hire them onto your team 
take the damn Village to BU love people 
I'm looking for stringers all over the 
place 


people often say well do I have to be 
really good friends with this person 
what about sexual chemistry I'm like 
long term you can't do that in the 
absence of trust what is chemistry it's 
not just something like ephemeral that 
happens or doesn't happen they're 
probably the level at which it's about 
physical appearance and etc etc but a 
lot of chemistry is that right safety 
the ability to take risks the ability to 
be like playful and silly I think that 
there's I'm all for passion in a sexual 
experience but lots of long-term couples 
also rely heavily on humor and silliness 
as a gateway to erotic experiences so 
there's not any there's not like right 
wrong ways of getting into an erotic 
moment with a partner in over 20 30 
years as you're saying couples need to 
have lots of ways of transitioning from 
doing dishes side by side to you know 
getting in bed together or you know 
parenting to becoming lovers again and 
there needs to be lots of ways of doing 
that and that element of friendship is 
vital because it creates the safety and 
the safety is just yeah you can't go 
anywhere without it 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find l 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to this week's podcast I am 
jumping out of my skin excited to share 
with you a super inspiring Love Story um 
of a former client and now friend Tara 
who is an attorney 
who is from Chicago and Tara welcome to 
the 
podcast thanks for having me Bella I'm 
so excited to tell my story in this 
context I've never been on a podcast 
this is exciting oh I'm so excited to 
have you and you're so beautiful and 
articulate and in love so I'm just I 
couldn't be more delighted to reconnect 
with you so set the stage here you know 
you're a badass successful professional 
and um kind of tell us where you were 
when before you came to us yeah I mean 
it's kind of a little bit of a different 
story in the sense that um I kind of 
grew up in a very traditional household 
and ended up with an arranged marriage 
my sister had one my parents had one so 
I also had one and that was in 2008 and 
it didn't work out you know were you 
excited about it were you excited about 
an arranged marriage or how did you feel 
in your body no not I mean I don't think 
I participated in the process in the 
right manner to actually make it 
effective you know my sister's marriage 
is 30 years old my parents have been 
married like 50 plus years um arranged 
marriages can work I just didn't have 
the mindset for it you know I was very 
career oriented still am actually but 
then even more so and was kind of like 
okay I'll just get married and try this 
and it was like with the wrong Minds I 
went in with the wrong mindset and um 
with all due respect for my partner at 
that time it just didn't work out and 
things like that happen um but I didn't 
date I hadn't dated and I was you know 
30 when I got married and um and when I 
actually kind of woke up from that 
situation I actually got cancer I ended 
up with tongue cancer cancer in 
2012 um which is an unusual form of 
cancer but um and I had I don't smoke 
and I barely drink so it was a little 
bit of an unusual thing kind of a shock 
to the system of course and after I did 
that I kind of had like this Epiphany 
like hey maybe I should try baining so 
from uh after the cancer treatment on I 
went on what I would call 
like about 
45 uh 
First Dates okay I actually I had I had 
a relationship with a nice man he was a 
nice man and um we had fun we went to 
like you know uh laala paloa and we did 
all this kind of stuff but you know he 
started losing interest and and I and I 
didn't get the signs I really was like 
kind of clueless about the whole 
process and I went into it then it 
didn't work out you know relationships 
don't work out you kind of have to move 
on but I was struggling with the idea of 
dating and not understanding signals you 
know and that's when at that time this 
was around January January of 2016 a 
friend of mine whom I think I met um at 
Eve of the eve which is a party at Union 
Station love that it's like a really 
fancy party and she and I went to it and 
and she's you know I was kind of telling 
her about my dating woes and she was 
telling me about hers and then she was 
like you may want to 
consider uh contacting my friend Bella 
Gandhi and I was like okay she's got a 
cool name like I've never heard bellaa 
and like a Gandhi put together so I was 
like okay I'm gonna give it a shot why 
not why not so I think I emailed you 
maybe in January of 
2016 and you had an initial phone call 
interview kind of meeting and then you 
connected me with an in-person meeting 
with Lindsay and um Lindsay is like a 
rock star so she came in and I and 
honestly what compelled me to the Smart 
dating Academy was Bella your story 
about how you had found love and how you 
know how you wanted to spread that love 
to others you know that that seemed like 
such a magnanimous gesture even if it 
was your job I think you had like a 
calling some sort of you know and maybe 
like my own calling to become an 
attorney it it resonated to me like it 
resonated that someone was doing this 
not only you know as her job but like as 
a passion like as something that she 
wanted to do and then Lindsay had that 
same equivalent 
passion and you know she gave me like a 
packet of materials it was like a hard 
copy I might have it somewhere I don't 
know I'm moving right now so I'm sure 
it's in some weird packet uh maybe it's 
in my bi cabinet because I I kept 
records of every person I dated and did 
all kinds of crazy stuff like that but 
Lindsay actually sat down with me and 
went through what my past was yeah and 
how the dating situation was and talked 
about this relationship that I had 
previously had and she gave me a clue 
that maybe I was wasn't really good at 
recognizing signs you know like people 
that were supposed to like if they 
contact you only once a week maybe 
they're not interested or they're 
contacting seven to eight other people 
and at that time I was on every app in 
the world right Bella like at that time 
there was like Tinder you know 
match uh okay Cupid the Bumble had come 
out hinge the whole Plenty of Fish like 
coffee meets Bagel like literally 
everyone and and they were all like some 
of them were on Shark Tank you know 
trying to like Hawk their 
services and you know the kind of you're 
doing this dating thing you're swiping 
right you're swiping left you're trying 
to figure it out and um ultimately what 
I found most helpful was kind of like 
here are some like tips tis on what you 
recognize as bad 
responses um Lindsay would actually go 
through some like ideas of what are bad 
responses and then I was like oh my god 
I've been like responding to these 
terrible 
people you're like I just didn't know 
and this is the thing Tara to your point 
you grew up in a conservative family 
there are other people that grow up in 
Liberal families but at the end of the 
day who is taught how to date 
nobody is taught how to do this at any 
age and you were smart enough to listen 
to our common friend Bonita's advice to 
come in and you were proactive and you 
wanted to learn how to do this and learn 
a process and so when you came in 
Lindsay started to teach you the process 
and I know because I've heard this so 
many times it's like a light bulb goes 
on like oh my gosh I didn't know that 
was red flag or maybe I'm red flagging 
Myself by saying these things right and 
yeah yeah like some of the things you 
know kind of like a what was interesting 
is Lindsay also went through like hey 
how are you responding to these 
people and you know am I showing a kind 
of this coldness or am I ghosting people 
and kind of thinking through that 
process was super helpful and I I think 
I am generally a proactive person but I 
didn't think I needed in the dating spy 
you know I was like hey I'm you know you 
contact your doctor when you need help 
you contact your like dentist when you 
have a toothache it didn't even occur to 
me that I needed to talk to like a 
relationship consultant you know and I 
think it was it was a light bulb like it 
was kind of like like you know Thomas 
Edison was so excited when you know I I 
decided to contact Smart dating account 
But ultimately you know what happened 
after the fact and it it still took time 
you know I've been married for five 
years but to meet my husband after I 
started with Smart dating Academy it 
took about year and a half you know and 
and I got and I was working with you 
guys and I I I don't even recall what I 
paid it was a long time ago so hope 
hopefully you get paid more best 
investment you ever made right oh for 
sure you know for 
sure but ultimately when I met Paris and 
I met him on a Indian app called uh 
dill and Dill is like sort of for 
Indians but there's other people on it 
you know people that are just into 
Indian ladies or what or Indian men I 
don't but I I uh I I clicked on uh his 
profile and you know I I I joke around 
with him that he kind of fooled me 
because he was wearing like he was 
wearing a really nice toxin one picture 
with a pink tie and then he had another 
picture where he was laughing with his 
nieces and um another picture where he 
had his work you know work profile or 
whatever and so I thought he was going 
to be a really funny guy so like I was 
like oh yeah this guy's going to be 
hilarious let's let's do this and I 
thought he was cute I thought he was 
cute um not a conventional cute person 
like most people would be like he's not 
like an Adonis but he was cute to me 
like I thought he cute 
that's um and he's bald like that that's 
my thing I think I I like bald men but 
anyway so I clicked on his link I 
clicked I swiped right on Paris and that 
was August 31st 
2017 y a long time ago and um and then 
we he he had also swiped right on me and 
somehow like during Labor Day 
weekend we had our initial like text 
conversations on the app and Paris was 
like what did you do it was kind of a 
boring conversation right you're like 
what did you do this weekend and what 
are you doing what are you doing this 
weekend and uh we were very very 
different people like uh my answer was I 
did 35 things um I went on a boat ride 
and then I did a picnic and then I went 
and met my parents and then I had dinner 
at their house and then I went to a 
concert you know it was it was summer it 
was you 
know 2016 I was like a single lady 37 38 
years old you know like just doing my 
thing you know 39 whatever and um 
ultimately what happened was I met harus 
by the app and this boring conversation 
started like this back and forth texting 
but what was different about him in 
comparison to the other men that I had 
met through these other websites or you 
know apps and whatever was he paid 
attention he actually concentrated on me 
he asked me questions uh we weeded out 
like these things that you know are 
normally no no you don't like talk 
politics you don't talk you know yeah 
for the most part you don't talk about 
politics but like this was post like the 
Trump election and like you know I I had 
to weed out like hey you know is this is 
this going to be a problem right and um 
stuff like that you know we we discussed 
whether we wanted children we we talked 
a lot and then we ultimately met and 
this is kind of it's a little bit of a a 
little bit of crazy story but I got to 
tell it tell it tell it girl yeah so uh 
he was in India he was like doing the 
last rights for his father who had 
passed away in 2015 and he went in 2017 
to do it he couldn't do it before that 
and I was in Hawaii and we were texting 
and talking all the time and then I got 
back from the trip and I was like you 
know this is really strange I've talked 
to this man for like two months when are 
we going to physically meet you know 
he's not making a move and I don't 
understand what's going on so I went to 
with the same friend Bonita we went to 
like this uh this like a Hawaiian luau 
party that a friend of 
ours was like hosting so we go to this 
party and there's like this uh fortune 
teller okay the psychic and I go to the 
psychic and I say you know what I've 
been talking to this guy for like three 
months or two months and he's not making 
a move and he's like I thought you were 
an attorney why don't you make the movie 
and I was like oh oh okay 
okay you know he really made a point and 
I felt like a dumbo but you know this is 
what it is like getting to the step of 
Paris itself was like a Smart dating 
Academy achievement getting to the next 
step had to be my achievement and I 
forgot and so I called Paris up he had 
just gotten back from his trip from 
India and I was like hey what are you 
doing December 7th and he's like uh I 
have nothing planned I'm like okay okay 
I'm going to fly so at that time he 
lived in Virginia he worked he works he 
worked at for the federal government he 
still works for the federal government 
and I'm a patent litigator and so I was 
like Hey I'm going to show up I'm going 
to show up at your uh home so plan it 
out so we met that December 7th and then 
from then on we started dating and we 
were inseparable and in all honesty it 
was like a tough time for work like was 
uh I was getting ready for a trial in 
December of that you know in in April of 
2018 and it ended up settling no March 
March of 2018 and we ended up going to 
trial but like even amidst this like 
crazy chaotic trial schedule he would 
make time for me and I would make time 
for him and he worked for the state 
department he didn't have a lot of time 
like he would 
drive an hour each way to get to the 
office 
and our love story started in that way 
and then ultimately we got engaged in 
July of 2018 and we got married in June 
of 
2019 and lo and behold five years later 
I'm married and you know I would say 
living the easiest life but it's just 
not true okay life is complicated 
constantly and I'm sure Bella you know 
this having been married I don't many 
more years than me um that you know 
marriage is like complicated and you 
still have to continue to work on it and 
it's an detestment to get there you know 
the process of getting there is hard but 
the process of staying there is even 
harder and 
so I think like for me like that first 
step of doing the Smart dating Academy 
was the Catapult that got me to the 
process and got me to 
recognize that Finding Love Is hard but 
keeping love is harder and then it's 
kind of all of that that ended up into 
my love story and it's still going I 
mean we're going strong five years in 
and there's been challenges throughout 
this time but you know I can always 
count on him and I think that finding 
the right person it's it's worth the 
shot it's worth giving a consultant a 
shot it's worth contacting Smart dating 
Academy and learning how a date even if 
you're like consider yourself an old 
person um and whether you're old or 
young just do it that's my advice 
because you you never know what you're 
going to 
get oh I so appreciate that and I think 
you're right right I mean you have quite 
the background right you came in and 
it's like you had a divorce you agreed 
to an arranged marriage you sort of were 
like okay but here was my responsibility 
in it like I didn't enter it with the 
right mindset and then you get your 
divorce you get sick and you were 
incredibly resilient so many times and 
still full of Fire full of Adventure 
like what the heck I'm going to find the 
lid to my pot when so many people out 
there have those setbacks you know Steve 
Harvey used to say to me and to the 
audience remember a setback is a setup 
for your comeback 
yeah and I mean life is like God winding 
roads you know you know whether it's in 
your career or your dating life there 
are going to be challenges there's going 
to be days that you're like I don't know 
if I want to do this anymore yeah and I 
think it's picking myself up constantly 
that gets me to The Next Step you know 
you you just can't stop you got to like 
keep going you got to just move on and I 
think I that's something that's innate 
to me so not every has that you know my 
husband's not like that he's not he's 
not he doesn't pick himself up as easily 
but what I find is despite having that 
resilience naturally I still didn't have 
the skills you know and I'm I'm someone 
who was teaching people like I was I I I 
I was a partner at a law firm and I was 
teaching Associates how to be better at 
their jobs but I didn't realize that I 
needed the same level of assistance 
in learning how to date and so you know 
whenever I tell people if someone asks 
me hey who should I go to I do I I you 
know 
refer them to Bella Gandhi and now Bella 
you're on like Good Morning America and 
doing you know crazy American things you 
know awesome things and you have a 
podcast and you really don't need me to 
refer you to anyone or make a referral 
but I still think it's worth it 
and it's because like if your goal is to 
find love you got to work on yourself 
you have to start with yourself right 
like you got to love yourself but you 
also have to learn what you're doing bad 
and what you're not doing what you're 
doing 
well and that to me is what Smart dating 
Academy has given me and it all worked 
out so there you go right it it all does 
work out and you're right and I love 
that you said this right we think 
happily ever after right it's not a 
fairy tale right marriage is work and 
it's work and it doesn't mean it's soul 
sucking work and you're you know being 
abused necessarily I'm saying marriage 
is work you have to you know the grass 
is green when you water it right and so 
you have to water the grass often all 
the time especially in the dark of 
winter right and so and like you're 
saying you tend to be the person that 
can elevate your husband more he needs a 
hand maybe more than you do you're more 
resilient and I'm sure that there are 
things that weren't identical he doesn't 
match you in every standpoint 
Personality yeah I mean he's an 
introvert I'm an extrovert there are 
very there's lots of differences like 
you know uh he he prefers like when we 
initially talked and 
he asked me what I did that weekend that 
Labor Day weekend I listed I don't know 
35 things that I had on my list and Par 
said I watch football and made like 
nachos 
yeah like he he's more of a simple 
person but like on the flip side he's 
really good at like Financial like 
predictions he's really good at 
kind of budgeting he has other skills 
that I just don't have and to me like we 
match because we compliment each other 
and we have enough in common that we're 
not boring each other we watch Big Big 
Bang Theory like every day and we you 
know we do Legos together sometimes like 
we have like nerdy kind of things that 
we do together um but there's also 
differences and you know years uh later 
I I I decided to like run to be the 
president elect of an organization the 
South Asian bar association of North 
America yeah and Paris encouraged me to 
do it like he had no idea the amount of 
work it was going to take and I told him 
it was going to take an enormous amount 
of work and he did quite get it but he 
really encouraged me and then like then 
he kind of begrudged me like the whole 
two years that I was involved but he 
also helped me a lot and that's where he 
offers kind of a different perspective 
and like I value who he is and he values 
who I am but in order to make that 
happen we've had to make compromises in 
life life like marriage isn't easy you 
are right um and especially when you 
have two older people that get together 
I was like 41 when I got married and he 
was 39 because you know I slightly 
robbed the Cradle but 
but um we were already set in our ways 
so he had his life I had my life and 
melding those lives took some commitment 
and I think that's where he and I get 
together and we we argue and we like 
resolve and we talk through things I 
mean I've had two floods in one year in 
this new house that we bought like you 
know we've my you know we had a family 
death like there's been issues in terms 
of like work issues and other things and 
we are also trying to adopt we've had a 
lot going on in order to get through all 
that and in order to find the right 
partner like finding the right partner 
and then getting the steps together to 
kind of walk in life together I think 
that is a challenge but it's worth the 
challenge you know I don't think I want 
to live life without my husband any 
you know like this he's he's everything 
to me um and I was at an event like I 
was in Toronto for like this South Asian 
Bar Association now I'm a past president 
and I could just hang out and I was 
talking to the event planner who I've 
used in AC events and they were like do 
you realize how lucky you are that your 
husband loves you this much and I was 
like yes that I I know because not 
everybody gets that um they may get 
close to that but I really have like 
this man who would devote everything to 
me like he he just loves me like when I 
was this organization's president he 
like was like oh I got to look good too 
and it took him more time to prep for 
like the events than me so that was kind 
of hilarious because he just was like I 
got to make you look good and I was like 
I don't think anyone really cares what 
you look like but it's fine they don't 
even care what I look like but it's okay 
my trophy husband that's fine yeah I 
mean and he was he was he he stood by me 
and he constantly stands by me and I 
stand by him too and part of it is is 
like we have like for all our 
differences we also have a lot of 
commonalities we both care about our 
families a lot you know he he has a 
widowed mom you know like it was 
important to me that I connect with his 
mom and she speaks a different language 
even within the Indian context we're 
from different parts of India 
originally and my parents are fluent in 
English and she's she speaks English but 
just not as fluently as my parents you 
know and so to a certain extent like I I 
instantly connected with his family he 
instantly connected with mine and that 
was something super 
important and 
so those kinds of commonalities kind of 
overcame our 
differences so 
yes I like to go out a lot or I like to 
hang out with my girlfriends a lot and 
he doesn't he doesn't he doesn't want to 
hang out with people all the time and 
for him like sometimes just quiet time 
is more 
important so that can be challenging 
when you're like an extrovert and you're 
like all the time and you need to 
puncture every sentence with like 
something but um all those differences 
don't matter at least for me 
if the commonalities are enough to like 
connect all of us and keep our hearts 
alive so that's what he does for me and 
if you asked him he'd say I do the same 
for him or he better at least say that I 
love after five years of 
marriage he's an elevated person for you 
do you remember when Lindsay and I took 
you through that exercise and figuring 
out who are the people in your life that 
make really really happy right we focus 
on those qualities then what are the red 
flags okay we're these are people that 
are going to get chucked out if they're 
if they're responding with red flags 
like you said most people there's no 
process so we and then it's can the 
attraction build with this person and 
then it's navigating to do we want the 
same thing out of this relationship are 
we aligned on the big things and then 
All the Small Things become negotiable 
you're an extrovert he's an introvert 
you like the city he likes the suburbs 
you like rock he likes country all those 
things become okay it doesn't matter 
what do you want to do today tomorrow I 
want to do this and all of that but you 
put the commitment to each other first 
and foremost and you elevate each other 
I agree like part of it is is you know I 
still have some single friends you know 
I'm 46 so my friends are around 46 maybe 
45 44 47 like you know in that area and 
um it's harder to find someone when 
you're older and you don't have the 
skills to do it um but I do think like 
one thing that's a difference is some of 
them wouldn't have picked Paris they 
wouldn't have given him a chance they 
wouldn't have like really swiped right 
and part of it is is like recognizing in 
yourself 
what where you are 
deficient and trying to find someone 
that might Shore up those 
deficiencies and that's who Paris is for 
me like he Shores up some deficiencies I 
have in life and you know it's it's it's 
been a hell of a ride uh we post all the 
time this roller coaster of life there's 
only one person that I would want to be 
riding with and it's him and he does the 
same he you know like he you know did I 
I I heard the song about who's your ride 
or die like he's my ride or die you know 
like he's the guy um and I am genuinely 
lucky to have found him and I think you 
and Lindsay should get at least 20 to 
30% Credit in getting this to happen 
because if I hadn't really learned the 
process 
I wouldn't have been open to this man 
who came into my life so that to me is 
like a lesson in like what you need to 
do to find love is to be open and kind 
of recognize that there's skills that 
you need to build and just like you go 
to school to like you know become a 
doctor and become a dentist and like you 
need to get those skills and so that to 
me is what Smart dating Academy has 
given me so I'm very very 
grateful and you know I hope Bella that 
you uh appreciate that you've helped so 
many people and um I hope you keep 
helping people and you know because you 
have this beautiful love story and I 
love talking about your husband and your 
beautiful children and know it's not 
always easy but you always come out and 
talk about it and to me that's important 
to keep telling people that there's hope 
you know I mean not everybody can get 
married at 41 and stay married till 46 
you know I had one unsuccessful marriage 
I wasn't going to do it again unless it 
was worth it but part of it was finding 
the right person I don't think I would 
have done it I honestly don't without 
like this assistance so I'm I'm very 
grateful I'm so grateful for you and for 
you sharing this beautiful story and for 
my childhood friend Bonita and we did 
sleepovers together and I'm so glad that 
she uh she was AR yenta and she 
matchmade us and I'm so happy to hear 
that you wouldn't want to do the roller 
coaster of life with anybody except for 
par so that like brings a tear to my eye 
I love love and love helping people and 
thank you for so genuinely and 
generously sharing your stories uh 
because it's so inspiring I think so 
many of us so many listeners regardless 
of what age you are can relate to God I 
just don't know how to do this I'm not 
having success at this so thank you for 
sharing the little nuggets that helped 
you and um for any of you that are 
inspired or feel called to make a change 
listen to what Tara said send an email 
to us like she did right would you say 
do it yeah reach out I mean it's worth 
it it's a you know part of it is you you 
think you know what you're doing but you 
may 
not and it's worth even getting a 
refresher course like you could be 
dating like 30 years and you may not 
know that the signals that you're giving 
aren't the right signals or the signals 
that you're receiving aren't the right 
signals so I think that to me it's worth 
the 
chance especially because everybody 
wants love like who doesn't want love 
those people are 
terrible exactly exactly if you want to 
find love you got to work on it it 
doesn't come free does come free for 
free I love that well thank you again 
for being here Smart daters Share this 
podcast with somebody that needs some 
hope for the beautiful Tara story if you 
feel called to hear it again you can 
watch this segment on our YouTube 
channel so um I'm again just so grateful 
for you and for being here and if you 
need a consultation people send an email 
go to Smart dating academy.com follow us 
on Instagram do the things because all 
of the Power exists inside of you to 
change your life so do something 
positive for yourself to move yourself 
in that direction and catapult yourself 
into love so thank you and until next 
week I bid you farewell 


I had a relationship with a nice man he 
started losing interest and I didn't get 
the signs I really was like kind of 
clueless about the whole process and 
then it didn't work out a friend of mine 
she was like you may want to consider 
contacting my friend Bella Bandy and 
honestly what compelled me to the Smart 
dating Academy was Bella your story 
about how you had found love and how you 
know how you wanted to spread that love 
to others and then Lindsay had that same 
equivalent passion but at the end of the 
day who is taught how to date nobody is 
taught how to do this and you were smart 
enough to listen to our common friend 
Bonita's advice to come in and you were 
proactive and you wanted to learn how to 
do this and learn a process I've heard 
this so many times it's like a light 
bulb goes on like oh my gosh I didn't 
know that was a red flag or maybe I'm 
red flagging Myself by saying these 
things right and yeah 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast and today I have the guest of 
all guests I'm so excited to introduce 
to you my friend tamson fidal who is if 
you've been hiding under a rock and you 
don't know who she is first of all get 
on her Instagram but she's a journalist 
she's a digital content creator she is 
an author she is a 13 time Emmy Award 
winner tamson welcome to the Smart 
dating Academy podcast how are you to 
see you good to see you I'm so good I'm 
delighted that you are here with us 
let's Jump Right In And like I said for 
anyone who doesn't know this beautiful 
being that is tamson just tell us how 
you got to the zoom how did you get to 
where you are tell us your story oh gosh 
um you know I well thank you first for 
having me here because I you know I 
always love to talk to you so I we we we 
figured out a way to do it no matter 
what the schedule looks like no matter 
who has to be picked up where what 
meeting are we have so I'm very happy 
about that um you know I don't know well 
me too I I don't know how I got here I 
you know I've been a journalist for 30 
years that was that was what I started 
out doing I've always been curious about 
people um and storytelling was something 
that was important to me bringing you 
know attention to voices that couldn't 
be heard there was no social media there 
wasn't even a cell phone back then uh 
but you know so that was the the the way 
we did it is that we would go out we 
take a camera we'd get somebody's story 
we try to help them in whatever way we 
could and um we'd air it and see who 
else in the community help to you know 
that's what I did for years and then 
when um I came to New York I started 
working at in the dating World a bit I 
had looked at the landscape when I was 
visiting here a couple of different 
times and I heard there was 100,000 more 
single women than men in New York City 
and that was way back then and I thought 
that those odds like were kind of awful 
and um my husband at the time and I 
started a matchmaking business and a 
coaching business so that was kind of 
fun and I enjoyed that wrote A Few books 
uh you know did a lot of dating events 
you know had a really good time did date 
coaching with women and um and then 
moved on from there back into just like 
a full-time journalism and then about 
two months ago I left that to go out of 
my own a bit and work on some things 
that are important to me in this second 
wave of 
Life amazing and I love matchmaking day 
coaching drove you back to journalism so 
what was your experience in New York 
City tell us a little bit about this you 
you hear you're married you hear that 
there's 100,000 more single women in 
Manhattan or across all of New York and 
so you're like hey let's start a 
business were you matchmaking women were 
you matchmaking men tell me about 
this yeah uh the women were our clients 
and the men were the people that we 
would come and we would vet the because 
that was the you know that was the big 
issue it's like finding men and um that 
were interested in dating at the time 
that were um looking for women within 
their age bracket so there wasn't like 
such a steep you know big difference who 
were looking at commit because we're 
talking about women that were in their 
early 30s um for the most part and so it 
was an interesting business you know 
anytime you're dealing with Affairs of 
the heart it's emotional and difficult 
it was um before really Facebook had 
taken off and so I mean it was like 
right around starting so it was a little 
bit easier because people weren't like 
looking at someone's Instagram from like 
a year ago so that made it easier um but 
I think what was what was what I learned 
from that what I really learned from 
that is what we put on our lists of what 
we want and who we went end up with or 
who really is going to make us happy can 
look very very very different and that 
changes the years too so you can go into 
something knowing what your value system 
is knowing what's important to you and 
maybe the type of Life You' like to lead 
but I think that it's really difficult 
when you number it one through 20 and 
then you hope that you're going to find 
that person because ultimately there was 
a lot of disappointment in that 100% And 
so many women at all ages whether 
they're in their 20s 30s 7s it's you 
know good on paper as you and I both 
sometimes isn't worth the paper that 
it's written on no no it it's not it's 
not and so right so it sounds like you 
probably exited your business right as I 
was entering the business in 2010 
because this is our 15E totally 
anniversary at Smart dating Academy so 
we've set up as you guys know dear 
listeners an entire process yeah that's 
exactly right yep to take people through 
what do you need versus what do you want 
who's going to make you happy and then 
starting to search for your high gpq 
person high and good partner qualities 
right and red flags and people that make 
you happy and so much to this so we are 
very sympatico in uh in what we've done 
in the past so so then you okay you 
exited the business exited your marriage 
tell us a little bit about that and then 
your re-entry into the dating world oh 
yeah um my my re-entry into the dating 
world was slow I went through through a 
divorce which was fod for you know 
people that were setting up people uh 
but working 
with a husband at the time and trying to 
keep it all together didn't work for us 
um and so I wrote a book about divorce 
and about kind of starting over as a new 
single and I think it 
was in a lot of ways important for me to 
do to get it out you know but it was 
also a conversation that was starting to 
be had a little more openly so I was 
happy to be contributing to that or a 
voice in that 
conversation and then I I went through 
my divorce in 
201 12 and it it took me a long time 
like I dated but I didn't go on apps and 
I just didn't I I was really like I put 
my head down and worked like that's 
really what I did and I did that for a 
couple of different reasons I don't 
think I was ready to get back out there 
I don't think that I was I really wanted 
something to feel solid and nothing did 
at the time my job was a little wobbly 
because I I had my head was in a whole 
another space my marriage had you know 
had gone away and so um it was important 
for me to get something solid so I 
focused on my job almost too much 
probably and then in um 2000 we always 
go back and forth about the the year I 
think it was 18 um I met Ira in Florida 
at an event we were both at we just 
happened to be I happened to be in the 
hotel he was at an event um and I was 
not ready for a relationship at the time 
but I thought like he's nice to got with 
like I'm about to dinner with him and 
stuff when he's in 
town and then I realized W I really like 
him I kind of look forward when he comes 
back to town I'd like spending more time 
with him you know it was a very it was a 
slow process I had no list at that point 
I just was not interested in getting 
married again that was what I I said and 
over time I realized like hey this is 
somebody I want to walk the earth with 
like I want to be with this person like 
the thing what's important to him is 
important to me you know his value 
system you know who he is who he is with 
this family as a father as a husband as 
all those things and so um you at 50 I 
got remarried which I you know didn't 
think I would do but um it was 
interesting to see how the dating 
landscape had changed quite a bit from 
it being digital to uh you know to that 
was where most people were meeting and 
the fact that we didn't was interest too 
to me but I um I have always been very 
fascinated about how you date a little 
bit differently as you get older or 
after you go through a divorce I'm sure 
you have a lot of clients like that for 
sure okay so for all the single people 
out there they want to know okay so 
tamson you were at an event in Florida 
and now who like how did this meat cute 
happen did he walk up to you like tell 
us the 
juice no it's not very it's not very 
exciting I hear um but we he and his 
friend were standing at the elevator 
bank and me and my friend kind of walked 
up to where they were and she kind of 
did like a quick like this is ton I this 
is who everybody is because she knew 
everybody and I was like hi and it kept 
going and then later on that night 
somebody said like you know that guy you 
met you know he's single and I'm like 
who cares you I just like kind of was 
kind of dismissive of it because I 
wasn't interested in dating that's not 
what I was looking to do uh and then he 
came down to the restaurant where we 
were and talked and I was like oh he's 
kind of funny and fun and nice and but 
you know and so that's kind of how it 
happened it wasn't that that's gonna be 
my husband I'm goingon to make sure like 
it was nothing like that you know I wish 
I wish it I wish it was but I don't know 
that I think those fairy tales are 
dangerous you know I think sometimes you 
just don't know what's going to happen 
and that's why I've always had that 
advice when friends say like um single I 
can't I'm never going to meet anybody 
but you know you could meet anybody 
literally we we literally met in front 
of an elevator Bank like that's the most 
boring story ever and so I um I do think 
you could meet somebody anywhere so 
you've got to let people know that 
you're single you've got to let people 
know together you've got to not be 
afraid to go to a dinner go to a drink 
go to even if you think a person is not 
anywhere right for you I think that 
that's super important because I think 
that who knows who that person knows 
like I just that's how I think the world 
works works you know I really I really 
do no it's the opposite of boring tamson 
it's like it's what everybody dreams of 
is you're standing in front of an 
elevator and oh my God that's Dear 
Future Husband right there so that's a 
great story and it's amazing that you 
had a really good sense about a good 
human being and you were open to him 
talking to you in the restaurant versus 
being guarded and kind like wow this is 
kind of a cool person so and you had had 
a good six years to kind of date 
yourself get solid footing so it sounds 
like you were sort of ready maybe you 
didn't know it yeah were so yeah I think 
so I you know I think i' spent enough 
time with myself get bored with myself 
and um just to really understand though 
what would and wouldn't work and I think 
that he had to so that was nice it was 
it's nice going into it like um without 
a list of rules like nobody came into it 
with these rules and I and I also think 
at this time in life there's there's a 
number other pressures that are added on 
but pressures that are taken off you 
know like we were you know having 
children wasn't a a discussion like we 
both knew where we stood on that he 
already had children I I you know wasn't 
in a place to have children um and so 
that discussion you know sometimes that 
can be part of it you know Financial 
conversations we're both very 
independent with that so there's certain 
pressures I think that are taken off 
depending on where you are but then the 
ones that come on or aging parents like 
what we're both doing as we get older 
we're both in our second wave of life 
you know so I think that it's a um a bit 
of a give and take and but I I 
really I really am hopeful for a lot of 
people that they um you know don't get 
discouraged because they're on like one 
or two or three bad dates or they're 
online and everybody is like awful or 
not for them or leading them the wrong 
way I hope that they will you know 
continue to get out there to give give 
themselves a chance because I think that 
that's really important like these 
relationships are what we're all 
relationships are really what we're here 
for yeah exactly and I just want to 
acknowledge what you said I mean it's it 
sounds like everything you knew kind of 
moved away it was like an earthquake 
rolled through your life right and you 
built yourself back up again slowly you 
were resilient you had a job that was 
wobbly then you got to be really really 
solid in your job which is how I met 
tamson for those of you who don't know 
probably for the last year and a half 
maybe two I've been doing segments with 
her on Pix 11 in New York and we would 
basically do every single month and I 
always thought to myself I really like 
her I hope that somehow you know the 
universe would have it that we would be 
friends offline and here we are so this 
is such a such a gift that you're giving 
me but for you listeners thank you you 
might be sitting there in your car or 
just thinking oh my God wo is me and 
look at this and this happened to me and 
even when you see people on TV that look 
pretty and they have pretty lives just 
know that at the end of the day 
everybody has the muck that they weigh 
through and they have to be just like 
you and put their pants on and get back 
up and try again and how does it feel to 
be remarried now 
um you know it is pretty amazing like 
it's just easy and I think that that's 
the that was key for me I had de I had 
years of a lot of drama and I was tired 
and I think that um it's really nice to 
not what's important to me at this stage 
of my life is 
like not to be worried about all those 
little things you know I don't come home 
to fights I don't come I don't answer a 
phone to like where are you don't you 
know it's just easy and I when I say 
walk you know walk through the Earth 
with or walk alongside of I really mean 
that like it's just very easy and nice 
and um and that was my priority my 
priority was to U be with somebody that 
was not going to everything was have to 
be drama you know everything was gonna 
to be a thing it was very very um 
critical at this stage because there's a 
lot of things I want to work on a lot of 
things he wants to work on and um 
yeah it's just easy I don't I don't know 
another word for it and and we have fun 
together and laugh together which is 
what I love and I love the word easy as 
the Smart dating listeners tamson know 
that my number one word for a good 
relationship that's going to go the 
distance is easy but easy doesn't mean 
that there's no conflict that you don't 
have speed bumps it means that you can 
deal with the ups and downs of Life 
fairly easily you're both grownups you 
can both negotiate through a conflict in 
a healthy constructive way that ideally 
gets your relationship even to a better 
place so easy I want you guys to know it 
doesn't mean there's no conflict right 
I've been married for going on be 27 
years in May 
so it's 
easy but there are moments that are hard 
but do you come together at that point 
versus splitting apart so I'm really oh 
yeah I'm so glad that you found the lid 
to your pot and well congratulations to 
you yeah it's a long time I know 
sometimes I'm like wow that's a long 
time um my brother once said to me you 
guys were so young you were kind of 
unqualified to get married which is kind 
of oh 
no 
unqualified so well now you're very 
qualified oh my gosh it's uh it's 
certainly fun it's certainly fun I've 
got a great partner as do you which 
really makes life so much better right 
it's like you can love yourself be 
stable on your own but when you have 
that and person and that's why I call it 
the lid to your pot because the pot is 
complete on its own right you can make 
pasta you can make everything in a pot 
but that lid that fits just right just 
gives you that much more versatility you 
can be the pot on your own or you can be 
lid plus pot totally totally totally 
true oh my gosh well tell us about 
the shift that you've made I'm so proud 
for you and I love women entrepreneurs 
that take the leap so I read something 
on your website that really was seismic 
for me and it started with a moment that 
you described where suddenly like all 
the lights started dimming you felt 
brain fog and you were like oh my God 
what's going on talk to us about 
that yeah um that was in 
2019 right before the pandemic like 
three four months and um and that's 
that's just kind of what happened I was 
uh in a commercial break just before we 
were getting ready to do our business 
report and uh I just like something was 
wrong and I didn't know what it was my 
heart was racing out of control and U 
one of the one of the guys in the studio 
was like okay I think you should get off 
the set and so um during the Comm break 
got off the set and like went and 
literally laid down on the bathroom 
floor not sure if I was going to get 
sick or faint or P out I just didn't 
really know 
[Music] 
um I just didn't really know what was 
happening and so I went home that night 
and I'm like what what was that like I'm 
okay now like what was that and um I 
made it appointed like make an 
appointment with my my general 
practitioner and like well ibe anxiety 
and then I made another one so I 
um I wanted do a blood pan Channel and 
found out I was in 
menopause I'm like what I'm only 49 or 
48 at the time um 40 yeah 48 at the time 
and uh I was like that's not possible 
that's just not possible just too young 
and um but I wasn't and I started to 
learn more about what that was and a lot 
of the things that were causing the 
problem my brain fog not remembering 
things not being able to add live on 
television without you know having a 
script in front of me if I had a script 
in front of me every once in a while the 
words like would make no sense my body 
would like get heated up with 
nervousness because I couldn't remember 
what was going on uh like you know what 
the word was and uh I'm like oh my gosh 
like sleeping all the time gaining 
weight you know just all these things 
and so um I started sharing that a bit 
on on social and then I kept sharing it 
and I haven't stopped 
yet because I think there's a lot of 
people that need to hear it and there's 
always going to be women going through 
it and by the year you know 20 25 2030 
now there's going to be a billion women 
globally that are going through this 
transition in life and the fact that I 
was a journalist for 30 years and never 
said the word is doesn't even make sense 
oh my gosh and Tam we have some catching 
up to do we totally do and you guys 
she's so incredibly humble if you go to 
her Instagram or her social media she 
has like a bajil ion followers a 
bajillion likes because her content is 
so good really talking about menopause 
and I love your makeup tips and you talk 
about health and wellness so this moment 
and starting to speak about it and you 
were speaking about it in such a lovely 
way that you built this following how 
did that impact I'm guessing that's what 
led you to say well if all these people 
want to hear what I have to say on this 
maybe I can say more about it on a daily 
basis and as part of my yeah yeah yeah 
it's funny I um I had started having 
this conversation with my with my 
employers there like a a year plus 
before because I was just kind of 
getting to a place where I 
really um wanted to do other kinds of 
Storytelling but I didn't really know 
what that would looked like 
and um and then this you know I didn't 
set out planning this just this is like 
I think that's what this community is 
all about like they are it's that's why 
it's so it's so neat to me coming from 
traditional media that it's so 
interactive you know and um and I think 
that like I learn so much from them 
every day and I hope that like they 
learn from me but I I think um you know 
I started in part before trying to 
figure out kind of what was next from 
what what my purpose what's my next 
purpose because I feel like I fulfilled 
that other 
purpose and was always grateful for it 
but wanted to do another kind of 
Storytelling and then this started to 
happen like last year and um and then it 
just kept happening and so yeah so i i t 
they they were very aware of everything 
but I I gave my notice um a few months 
before and then we made the announcement 
public um a few months after that like 
they were very good about being great 
Partners in this whole thing um 
but yeah i g i then I left about almost 
three months ago so it's it's kind of 
surreal at the same time it was November 
11th so it's coming up on three months 
which is amazing to me the first and 
it's still fluid like where it's all all 
going I know it's the first 90 
days that's a well tell us what it is 
tell us what it is and how we can like 
tell us all the things oh uh well you 
know do still a lot of digital content 
I'm um I have a book that's coming out 
um by hasette that's going to be 
published in 2025 so excited about that 
amazing thank you it's all about kind of 
like this next age and um of our lives 
and then um I have yeah I'm working with 
a couple different brands right now to 
figure out what you know what that looks 
like and have a podcast that'll be 
launching in the next few months so I'm 
excited I'm excited and I'm just trying 
to um not put that pressure on myself 
like it's got to be done here in here 
here and even though that's scary it's 
that's the only way I can do it right 
now so you know I had to figure out what 
I wanted to do to kind of reinvent that 
wheel a little bit and so that's where 
we are right now yeah it's kind of 
exciting this is your new this is like 
the purpose for the second half this is 
like your next ACT yeah yeah yeah I'm 
excited about it are you excited and 
what would you oh my gosh it's it's 
fantastic and there's so many people 
that are listening to this that have 
that little voice inside of them that 
there's this little flicker of you know 
what I really have a gift and I should 
be doing X or Y or Z and sometimes we 
snuff that out because we feel like we 
fail or no one will support us or we 
have all these bills to pay and how am I 
going to get my kids through school 
maybe I'm a single mom what advice would 
you give to someone who feels what you 
did like there's something in me that 
like this unfulfilled purpose do you 
have any gems that you can drop on 
somebody yeah I don't know if they're 
gems I just know that that's what what 
worked for me like you know it took time 
like I said I talked to them over a year 
before so I really was trying to work up 
to that it wasn't like a some people are 
like you just left I said no it was like 
13 months and so I just think was really 
important to beep prepared um I don't 
know that I have all the answers even 
today is exactly what everything is 
going to perfectly look like but I just 
knew that it was really important for me 
to serve that part of myself and to 
serve the community that I think is you 
know talking back to me um I think 
you've got to be prepared I think you've 
got to have a good Network around you I 
think that's been critical for me to 
have I think a good support group and 
you we say that like what does that look 
like but it doesn't have to be your best 
friend but it can be people that you can 
reach out to for help if you need 
something like there's a lot of 
questions I have about websites or 
photography or brand whatever I I don't 
I don't know or or Med medical I don't 
know everything you know and I have to 
reach out like I have this network of 
doctors now that I'm able to reach out 
and go like help I don't know what this 
is or can you do an interview with me um 
so I think that's important to establish 
that part and I I think it's important 
to know that like this is your someday 
so if you're still if you're like 
Someday I'm definitely going to whatever 
whatever whatever like this is is kind 
of this is for someday that's how I 
looked at it and I was like if I'm not 
doing it now when am I doing it and if 
I'm waiting three years five years six 
years happen and so that was really 
important um and I had to keep some 
things in mind like how how is how am I 
replacing my income or how am I starting 
to replace my income where can I you 
know get rid of other things that don't 
make sense um what can I do in those 
hours that I wouldn't be at work that I 
can do now to you know you know move the 
business forward or move the you know 
Financial needle forward those were all 
things that I had to talk to myself 
about and try to keep my blinders on as 
much as possible so I wasn't in this 
race against everybody else it was just 
against myself that's the best race 
right just against you yeah keeps that 
keeps you studied um for sure wow and 
what can what can the smart daters here 
do to support you in your new 
Venture oh gosh I don't know just tell 
me what you want tell me what you need 
tell me if you want if you like the 
conversations we're talking about listen 
to 
you oh my I think that's important I 
think it's 
important right yes they but if you want 
me on a tamson Fidel on all the 
platforms that's where I that's where I 
hang out oh my gosh and give us um so do 
you 
have a good makeup tip you do so many 
great makeup tutorials like oh um um 
gosh I'm trying to think of my makeup 
tips you know I'm wearing less now 
because of TV today's not indicative of 
this because I had a shoot earlier today 
but I I have um two things that I 
focused on now like I realize that I am 
um using these eyelash curlers that I've 
always hated forever but I feel like if 
I'm trying to look a little awake I just 
do the curlers curlers mascara mascara 
curler curler again even though it's a 
little crunchy but that helps and some 
lip gloss and I feel like I can get out 
of the house at least least with that so 
that's my like to do less stuff because 
I think that's important and I think 
with makeup just making sure you're not 
just following in all the trends because 
I don't think that the trends always do 
every like they're great for video but I 
don't necessarily know that they're 
realistic for real life because I don't 
have that amount of time and so um I 
think it's important to do what works 
for you and where you are and not be 
comparing yourself to somebody who's you 
know doing it for different 
reasons well you always look beautiful 
and you're such a Beacon for so many 
people including me I'm so grateful that 
we've met through pics and now we're 
here and that we'll do lots of fun chats 
in the future so thank you so much for 
taking the time to tell us about you and 
we're super excited for you and I know 
you're going to impart so much good 
knowledge on my listeners and me and I'm 
here for all of it so thank you again 
for being thank you thank you so much 
we'll have you back for 
sure I would love that smart haers 
remember if you're inspired by this and 
you need to make a really big leap in 
your life maybe it's a leap into 
business maybe it's a leap into love and 
you've been Heming and hawing and you've 
been listening to 130 plus episodes on 
this podcast since I started it in 
2022 I want you to know you are worth 
whatever it you think it is you might 
not be as women and men we invest in so 
many other people besides ourselves take 
a moment to say what would bring me joy 
what can help me to level up to get 
ready to take that leap into whatever 
pie piece of your life you want to go 
take that leap and my counsel to you is 
do that thing today do it next week send 
me a note tell me what you did to take 
that leap and as always listen to this 
podcast rate it share it write your 
comments we read every single one we 
love you and until next week I bid you 
ADW 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm bellagande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back to the podcast 
I am as you know 
excited Beyond excited psychotically 
optimistic and in rare form today 
because the guest I have today is like 
the guest of all guests 
okay 
so excited to present to you my friend 
Amy Ferris Amy welcome to the podcast 
welcome and thank you for having me this 
is like a treat Beyond oh my God thank 
you thank you thank you I feel like I'm 
with the queen goddess oh my God 
absolutely not you are the sweet goddess 
let me you know we can punch this out 
after we can do a punch out after but 
you are the queen goddess I'll meet you 
by the bike racks how does that sound 
you got it I got the Schwinn go ahead oh 
my gosh well let me tell you about the 
mighty gorgeous Amy Ferris she is an 
author editor screenwriter and 
playwright her Memoir wait for it you 
guys marrying George Clooney confessions 
from a midlife crisis was adapted into 
an Off Broadway play in 2012 how badass 
is that as a screenwriter she co-wrote 
the film Mr Wonderful and was nominated 
for a best screenplay award for her 
adaptation of the film funny Valentine's 
you guys this woman is so awesome 
there's like a thousand other sentences 
in her bio but she also recently 
co-authored the book Old School love 
with rev run of Run DMC Fame I'm a gen 
xer you guys so Run DMC OMG in 2019 she 
was named one of women's e-news's 21 
leaders for the 21st century I mean she 
she's a friend of my friend Jill sharer 
Murphy and she's here because she's 
freaking awesome and she's been an 
author the author of the new book which 
you'll be able to order called Mighty 
gorgeous a little book about messy love 
Amy holy holy smokes 
you're amazing oh you know thank you 
thank you I'm going to take that 
compliment after hearing what I did have 
done in my life I'm gonna take that 
compliment yes you're like who's that 
badass wow hey oh wow 
badass that 
that that is me tell us 
um 
a little book about messy love let's 
start there what inspired you to write 
this tell us a little bit about messy 
love 
oh I think messing Love is Everything I 
think it's marriage I think it's dating 
I think it's breaking up I think it's 
tossing crap in the corner I think it's 
friendship I think it's everything I 
think everything is about a relationship 
everything 
everything is relation is is 
the foundation of you know relationships 
right 
messy love is about my marriage to can 
messy love is about finding myself messy 
love is about 
dropping out of high school 
and you know kind of rebelling 
messy love is about my own 
finding my own heart 
oh my God amazing and you guys I was so 
lucky to get an advanced reader copy of 
this amazing book and I literally sent 
Amy a note this morning when I finished 
it like oh my God I have so many 
thoughts I have so many feelings I need 
to go for a really long run to process 
this I'm in love with you I'm in love 
with this book and I just you guys I 
I've never done this but I'm so 
compelled by the intro I I think I want 
to begin by taking a couple of minutes I 
want you to hear 
Amy's voice in my voice and I'm going to 
read you the intro okay about up to 
messy look 
in 67 years I've had my heart ripped to 
shreds broken into pieces and crazy 
glued back together I dropped out of 
high school tried suicide and spent some 
time on a commune I was thrown out for 
shaving my legs true story 
I got my GED at 17 and never went on to 
college I filled my body with enough 
drugs to open a pharmacy and I slept 
with the gazillion wrong men whose first 
name was either Joe or David or I'll 
call you 
I fell down I got up I fell down I got 
up I fell down I got up I spent all the 
money I made as a waitress and temp 
worker on fast food and useless direct 
and then I started making a ton of dough 
as a writer I wrote a couple of groovy 
movies that got made into groovy films 
and have had more than a few books 
published I have loved bad men and cruel 
men and married the coolest guy on the 
[ __ ] planet 
I've been betrayed and hurt and cracked 
wide open by women friends and you'll 
still get me to love you and Champion 
you and toss you a line 
I lost my mom to dementia and I lost my 
dad to a heart attack and my family 
unraveled into a million as strange 
threads 
I don't believe in God but I do believe 
we are all capable of being God or 
goddess-like kind good loving and 
compassionate and I do believe if there 
is a God it is a woman 
I think Colin Kaepernick is a superhero 
and men who abuse their power are 
insecure and small little [ __ ] up 
slimy creeps I believe in second chances 
and I believe that the third time is in 
fact a charm 
I believe there's nothing more glorious 
than a human who can stand in their own 
power and be comfortable in their own 
skin and own their beauty and their 
greatness I can safely say that yes I 
have made it to that place 
I believe getting loved is way better 
way better than getting laid but getting 
laid beats phone sex by a good mile but 
nothing beats self-love nothing 
I know for a fact that kind is way 
better than nice and that the Verizon 
friends and family plants pretty bogus 
I recommend we put a fast halt on being 
needed and pump the [ __ ] gas on 
being wanted oof take that one I feel 
strongly about inequality and Injustice 
and that poverty destroys and kills more 
lives than we care to admit I know for a 
fact that depression comes in waves and 
tsunamis and dementia grabs you by the 
throat and doesn't let you go 
I know that money doesn't buy you 
happiness or friendship or love but 
having some cast sure the [ __ ] makes you 
less worried 
I learned a long time ago that marrying 
well can't hold a candle to marrying 
good and if you can't find a light at 
the end of the tunnel you are in the 
wrong [ __ ] tunnel there is always a 
light somewhere I love that my life is 
made up of broken edgy frayed 
magnificent glorious sexy gooey messy 
Amazing Life pieces I am so proud of who 
I have become because I gotta say for a 
while it's touch and [ __ ] go I'm 
absolutely thrilled to be here I mean 
you guys this is just the intro Amy Amy 
just 
I'm gonna turn the mic over to you talk 
to us tell us about your growing up 
oh my God first of all can I just say 
hearing you read that 
made me so proud of me 
I don't know if I can actually even talk 
right now I've never heard anybody read 
it out loud 
it's amazing so I just have to thank you 
for giving me the opportunity to hear 
about me 
and 
how proud I am of me 
it really I and I genuinely 
wholeheartedly mean this it's 
it's astonishing to hear somebody read 
your life 
with such passion and authenticity and 
Authority 
and I think and I'm I'm pretty sure that 
what you just did is you just kind of 
cracked open my heart 
from my own life so thank you and I mean 
that thank you 
you're welcome you're welcome you are I 
have had lots of people with lots of 
books on this show and that intro just 
gripped me because it's it's Fierce it's 
real it's authentic and I love that you 
wrote This Book 
as a lesson to your younger self and 
and lessons to all of us and that's why 
I just couldn't be more honored and 
happy to have you here to talk to us 
about the fact that you didn't just get 
placed up on this pedestal 
you had a long winding messy road to get 
to where you are now and in retrospect 
you can tell all of us you can tell 
little Amy and little Bella and all of 
us out there you know what I believe in 
you and you're beautiful just the way 
you are so tell us a little bit about 
you're growing up I mean that's pretty 
awesome you know I grew up out on Long 
Island you know in the suburbs and 
there was always a feeling of I didn't 
belong and it wasn't it wasn't that I 
didn't feel like I didn't belong 
in the typical way that people say oh I 
don't belong 
it you know my family was very messy my 
dad had been arrested when I was a 
little girl 
you know 
um that was very traumatic but he became 
my hero and he taught me about love in a 
way that both my mother and father you 
know I there's a piece in the book where 
you know my mom pawned all of her 
jewelry to to you know throw him a 50th 
birthday party 
to buy him a pinky ring buy him a pinky 
ring and it was wrapped up 
in a beautiful package and you know and 
I so 
you know it's funny because my and this 
is something this is the truth my mother 
was not a very good mother 
my mother didn't know how to nurture my 
mother was the youngest of five I think 
so she was the baby and so she was 
always taken care of and she was always 
nurtured right 
and my dad just loved her I mean the 
moment he saw her in a two-piece bathing 
suit somewhere it was like I'm gonna 
marry that woman 
and they had a phenomenal love affair 
so I learned how to love 
through their love 
I learned how to be a woman of great 
forgiveness because I watched my father 
go through hell 
and my mother stayed with him and stood 
by him she never belittled him and any 
person who mistreated him during that 
time she was like no they're not coming 
back in our lives 
you know she was 
she loved him and he loved her so I 
learned love 
in in a way that I probably wouldn't you 
know I learned it from them I didn't 
learn love from being loved by her 
but I learned Love by watching them 
and so there in in and of itself is like 
a kind of a wacky kind of thing right I 
wasn't nurtured I wasn't you know I 
wasn't really taking care of as a little 
girl but 
I grew up to be very appreciative of 
what they had 
and I think their love is why I love my 
husband the way I do 
you know there's a lot of [ __ ] up 
stuff in between but I think 
um so I grew up out on Long Island you 
know 
um very kind of unstable for a while we 
lived you know in the suburbs 
um I still have I still my friend Ellen 
Klein who lived across the street you 
know I love her with everything in me 
she's still you know I she's like still 
that girl you know 
um and she did she lived across the 
street on Marion Drive 
um 
and 
and at 15 or whatever I dropped out of 
high school 
and I went to go live on a commune with 
a boy who did not love me and told you 
as much like um you know he said I don't 
love you that way and I thought well you 
know he doesn't have to love me that way 
but let me get out of here but I did so 
I left I left home and you know lived on 
a commune and for a very short short 
period of time because Jewish girls 
don't go to live in communes 
they go to Fortune Ops or or backs or 
you know or a mall I mean go to a mall 
for a year 
hang out at Baker's Shoes don't go to 
but 
I never 
knew the value of my own life 
and and when my dad took me to the 
airport to so I can get on a plane to be 
with a boy that didn't want me or loved 
me my father said to me 
I can't make your mistakes for you 
oh wow now here I am he drives me from 
Long Island to I forget what the airport 
was it wasn't LaGuardia it was something 
else 
um or it wasn't Kennedy or maybe it was 
um 
and he 
I was his little girl 
he was putting me on a plane to make a 
gigantic mistake 
you know 
um 
and him saying I can't make your 
mistakes for you was the greatest piece 
of advice and lesson 
because my father had a a an incredible 
belief in me 
and B he himself had 
had you know a for lack of a better word 
you know a rebirth you know he he had 
another chance he was given a second 
chance 
and I think that's partially where I get 
my passion for people who 
you know 
deserves second and third chances 
because I watched my father you know go 
from being a very big man to being a 
very small man 
to picking himself up 
and making something of his life and his 
for his his family 
and 
he was my hero you know he was the guy 
who 
showed me that second and third chances 
are you know what we sit in a movie 
theater rooting for right 
we're in a dark movie theater and we're 
sitting there and we're watching you 
know people falling down and we're 
watching them scraping and getting by 
and people hissing and saying [ __ ] you 
and get out of here and then at the end 
when they redeem themselves right 
we're in a dark theater and we're 
rooting for them 
and we don't do that often in real life 
but in a dark movie theater we do 
we want that guy to become a hero we 
want that woman to become a Shiro we 
want that that little girl to pick 
herself up and you know basically say 
you can't bully me anymore you know and 
so for me 
that's probably one of my greatest 
Passions 
is turning mistakes into mission 
and to be always that woman sitting in a 
dark movie theater rooting for the 
underdog rooting for the person who's 
lost everything rooting for someone 
who's made mistakes someone who's 
getting out of prison you know and 
trying to get back in life and you know 
or 
whereas somebody who deserves another 
chance at this thing called life 
so I'm going to be in a dark movie 
theater rooting them on and I'm going to 
be out in the sunlight rooting them up 
and 
you know and that's really how I feel 
you know I didn't grow up you know I I I 
didn't 
when people say oh I'm gonna I'm Gonna 
Leave to find myself I didn't find 
myself 
if it wasn't leaving to find myself I 
was leaving to hide from myself 
yeah you know 
and what I what I 
was so drawn to and attached to is what 
you talk about the differences between 
nice and kind and people pleasing and 
not being included and how and so I 
think I can relate I think every human 
on earth has been left out not invited 
to the bowling party not invited to the 
birthday party and how those things and 
what what I found so fascinating is you 
grew up in a home and you had the these 
parents that were mutually you know 
mutually obsessed with each other a 
mutual admiration society and you were 
sort of a spectator to that and always 
wanted to be included and weren't always 
included and at 15 here's someone who 
said well I'll include you kind of and 
you're like oh [ __ ] let's go I guess we 
kissed in the back a car and all of a 
sudden it was like I'm going with this 
guy I don't care who he is 
he's willing to bring me even though 
he's not in love with me in that way 
that's fine I'll take the leap it was 
like the ultimate birthday party that 
you just got invited to 
you know I think that being included or 
being excluded and all of that I think 
that that's something that we women 
you know feel viscerally 
you know it's like if somebody's 
throwing a dinner 
and all of a sudden you find out that 
you're not on the dinner list you know I 
don't care how old we are I don't care 
how many times we say we don't care 
it triggers so much you know not being 
included not feeling wanted 
um 
it triggers those pieces in US 
where we're back being that young girl 
or that little girl or not getting 
invited to the bowling party or oh my 
God they're going to Carvel and I'm not 
going to get sprinkles on my ice cream 
cone because they're not you know 
we 
all we really want as human beings 
bottom line is to be loved 
yeah 
that's all we want 
and how we seek it is how you know 
whatever we do right you know some 
people like think okay I'm gonna become 
the greatest person you know I'm going 
to become a goat and I'm going to become 
the greatest at something and everyone 
will love me but everything we do 
everything is because we want to be 
loved 
and the Hoops we go through 
and 
the crazy stuff we do and the mistakes 
we make and the mistakes we sleep with 
and the mistakes we marry and the 
mistakes you know it's 
it all comes down to wanting to be loved 
100 and and in its simplest form to your 
point it's being included being invited 
right what does love mean right to so 
many of us and and and if you think 
about it 
public speaking they say is the number 
one fear of most humans and if you think 
about it why would that be a bigger fear 
than death right but if you play it out 
to its extreme it gets to your point if 
I get on stage and if I make a total ass 
and a debacle of myself and I have a 
panic attack and I can't get the words 
out then people will think I'm a failure 
people will think I'm a loser and 
everybody will abandon me and they'll 
jump ship and ultimately it's fear of 
rejection absolutely that that's it 
bingo 
and and you know how many people fear 
that everybody everybody you know and if 
people don't tell you that you know if 
people say oh that that isn't you know 
my thing or I'm not worried about being 
abandoned or you know I overcame that 
you know no 
those are things that 
you know come back 
in different shapes and forms and 
you know 
a hundred years ago uh you know somebody 
said to me what is your greatest fear 
right and I was and seriously this was 
pre-ken 
and 
you know I listed like 12 things 
and and he said no no it's only one 
it's only one thing and all those other 
things 
are born out of that one thing and I 
remembered thinking what and I went in 
and I really kind of struggled with what 
is it that I'm afraid of why is it that 
I'm afraid to get close to you know 
somebody why is it that I choose men who 
you know I have to try to make happy 
and I realized you know after like doing 
this incredible dive inward 
that I was afraid of abandonment 
and and I could pinpoint why I was 
afraid of it 
and where it was born 
and why every time I I was in a 
situation where I thought oh my God I'm 
going to be you know 
I'm going to be left or you know 
you know I envisioned this little girl 
you know sitting with her voice at her 
grandmother's waiting for her mother to 
come back for her 
you know because I would my mom would 
take me to Brooklyn every kind of almost 
every weekend and I would hang with my 
grandparents 
who were Yiddish and didn't speak a word 
you know it was like I was Amy 
[Laughter] 
and I came home and it was like no my 
name is Amy it's not me 
pay me 
um and 
you know and I also learned love from my 
grandparents in a very incredible way 
and you know I think that 
it's 
um it takes us a long time 
you know to really kind of 
understand what it is you know it's like 
it 
it all comes down to love 
everything 
and speaking of love 
so from 15 to 38. let me say that you it 
your dating was life was sort of like an 
everything bagel there was a whole 
everything that you had some good some 
bad some really really bad 
yeah you know 
i f and and really A lot of it was that 
and these weren't bad men I mean some of 
them were I mean some of them probably 
you know had just gotten out of the 
penitentiary you know where you know 
some heinous crime but 
um 
mostly it was 
that 
you know 
I was choosing the the men that matched 
my own life condition my own I was 
choosing men who matched exactly how I 
felt about my own life 
oh say that again for the people in the 
back 
he was choosing men who matched exactly 
how I felt about my own life and 
and really truly that is the honest raw 
bottom line you know I was choosing men 
that couldn't give me what I wanted I 
was choosing men that hurt me I was 
choosing men that treated me awful I was 
choosing men that 
um 
and the thing about it and I know you'll 
you'll understand this 
I look at 
photos of me now back then 
and I think oh my God I was gorgeous 
Mighty gorgeous I might be gorgeous I 
see a woman or a young woman who was 
beautiful I mean I see you know this 
um but I never I never saw that then 
so now when I look at photos of me when 
I was younger 
I think oh my God how beautiful you know 
and my hair and you know when all kinds 
of things and 
and I thought okay you know when that 
guy told me that he loved me or thought 
I was beautiful why didn't I believe him 
yeah why don't I believe the ones who 
hurt me 
because I remember there was one guy who 
actually said to me do you know how 
beautiful you are and I was like oh this 
guy is [ __ ] nuts 
this guy is certifiable this guy so 
desperately is crazy 
um but he wasn't 
because now when I see the photo of the 
woman he looked at 
I think wow he wasn't lying 
but 
um 
you know I think how we view our own 
lives we bring into our lives you know 
it's like if if you don't feel good 
about who you are in the world 
or if you don't think you're enough or 
if you don't think you're worthy or all 
of those things that we've been talking 
about for years now 
you're going to bring people in that 
kind of match that so that you can go 
see that I'm not worthy see that I'm not 
enough 
see that I'm not you know and we don't 
believe it's I think there's a great 
line from Pretty Woman where she says 
something like why do we believe the bad 
yeah 
yeah 
why do we believe that's we were 
conditioned to believe you know the bad 
stuff 
so the tiger wouldn't eat us right 
exactly fight or flight right and and 
it's fake fear and fake bad right but 
you're right those bad seeds I I always 
say we talk about this at Smart dating 
Academy it's those three to five bad 
seeds that you know I I look at us as 
there's always seeds around our heads 
right and sometimes a lot of the seeds 
just repel and they fall to the ground 
there are certain seeds that implant 
themselves in our brains into giant 
Mighty oak trees and they're always the 
bad trees yes they are the bad Chia Pet 
trees that and you gotta take it you 
gotta take a damn ax and chop down those 
bad treats because most likely the seeds 
that we allowed to plant in our brains 
if you're not pretty enough you're fat 
you're old you're this you're that that 
person has no idea they even said that 
or that we interpreted what they said 
that way exactly it's in how we 
interpret it yes and we give away our 
power and if you're listening to this I 
want you to go oh my God if this is me 
take your power back chop those trees 
down ladies and gentlemen 
and we give away our power 
because we think okay that's gonna get 
someone to love us or that's if we give 
something away whatever it is 
right whether it's our power whether 
it's things we own whether it's oh you 
like my you like my shoes here take them 
you know whatever 
um we give them away because we want 
someone to love us 
right 
and 
we can't do that anymore 
we have to love ourselves more 
and love people less who who you know 
and and the power is not power is not 
anger 
no power's not you know anger power is 
not mean power is not you know [ __ ] you 
no that is not power 
no power is peace 
yes 
is peace 
well I'm so curious 
so we go from 15 to 38 kind of doing a 
little of this doing a little of that 
you know you guys have to read this book 
maybe did one night at a topless dance 
club trying to earn some tips we've done 
we've done it all with the delightful 
Amy Ferris and then at 38 this man comes 
along 
tell us about this love story 
I had code you know what's wonderful 
about this story right now is that it 
was born out of the 1988 Writers Guild 
strike 
coincidentally 
um so 
I met this woman on the picket line 
and she and I were like the only two 
chicks that were walking around you know 
[ __ ] you WG you know [ __ ] you you know 
we're wga writers you know and we need 
to get paid and all that and 
we connected and we decided Well let's 
write a script together 
you know because that's what we did we 
were writers you know and so 
um that's how the script Mr Wonderful 
was born 
um and it 
you know you couldn't sell it when you 
were writing it but we were able to kind 
of get a little bit of attention and 
then 
um the movie got bought the script got 
bought and Anthony mingella who had 
directed truly madly deeply and was like 
the coolest guy in town 
um was looking for his first 
um kind of like Hollywood movie to 
direct 
and he got the script Mr Wonderful 
and that was it it was kind of like 
because Anthony was Anthony grew up in a 
very working class family 
in London you know I think if I'm not 
mistaken his family owned like a you 
know like an ice cream parlor Pizza 
Joint kind of thing and Anthony was a 
brilliant brilliant writer and a 
brilliant director 
and so he 
was you know directing the movie and 
I think it was the second or third day 
of shooting 
and it was downtown 
and 
um 
I went to and I also happened to have 
known Matt Dillon who was in the movie 
so it was cool to hang with him oh my 
God like I think I had 27 000 posters of 
Matt Dill he was and let me just my 
seventh grade bedroom 
Matt Dillon and was and is one of the 
kindest people on the planet 
really no you know and the cast was 
amazing it was Bill heard it was James 
Gandolfini it was Annabelle and shiora 
it was Mary Louise Parker you know it 
was it was pretty extraordinary and 
anyway so I'm standing with Matt and I'm 
chatting and there's this guy on a 
camera and he's way up on a crane and 
he's wearing a hat and he looks like 
Clint Eastwood and at that very same 
moment we looked at each other hello I 
looked up at him and back then I was 
like wearing a white T-shirt and jeans 
and nothing fancy and you know my hair 
was really wild 
and I left and I you know left and then 
that night 
um 
the production manager said hey do you 
want to join us for drinks 
and 
I said sure and 
you know I came out of my apartment and 
Ken was I went oh my God Clint Eastwood 
and he went oh my God the best because I 
was wearing a vest 
and it was like 
um and it was wild and wonderful and 
nothing happened 
nothing at all happened because Ken was 
actually involved with somebody and I 
said when you can call me 
this is how I knew everything was 
different by the way 
because I didn't go to I didn't invite 
him in and and sleep with him 
I mean you know we didn't [ __ ] in the 
elevator you know it was like I said 
when you can give me your phone number 
when you're available you're available 
and you can call and leave your phone 
number that's you know 
that's when you'll be Mr Wonderful 
that's when and you know and then what 
ended up happening which is kind of like 
I think I've even I've written about it 
so many times 
um 
he said he was gonna it was over Labor 
Day weekend 
and he said I'm gonna call you 
you know and 
I back then we didn't have cell phones 
we had like shoe boxes right it was like 
you know I mean you go out with like a 
shoe box and you call from a you know 
from a uh you know phone booth to 
collect your messages and it's like 
you're in a phone booth for 18 hours you 
know 
and he said I'll call you and he didn't 
he didn't call me and I showed up on the 
set on Tuesday 
and I marched onto the set and I was 
like filled with like just Fierce and 
fire and and he was on one more Crane 
and James Gandolfini was in the shot and 
I walked onto the set and and 
I said excuse me you you up there on the 
crane you said you were gonna call me 
you didn't [ __ ] call me I had you 
pegged as someone different [ __ ] you and 
all of a sudden this Anthony miguela 
goes okay 
um and the crane comes down and mingella 
comes over to me and he said in his 
wonderful British clip you my darling 
have a set of platinum balls 
I mean it was like I showed up on the 
set I had no you know didn't realize you 
know I'd never really been on a set I 
didn't realize you can't just barge on 
you know and while they're shooting and 
you know and all kinds of crazy read 
somebody the riot act you know when 
James Gandolfini thought I was the 
coolest girl on the planet at that 
moment and Ken came off the crane came 
down it was like The Parting of the Red 
Sea literally like the crew everybody's 
like oh geez what's gonna happen and Ken 
comes down and he was walking toward me 
and I'm like [ __ ] you 
and he said I will never do that again 
and 
I said okay 
you're gay you're on 
okay he has been calling me ever since 
it's just celebrated your 30-year 
wedding 
Street and you know I'm a handful I'm 
I'm I'm you know and Kim is 
you know he's just this 
simple kind loving generous 
man 
you know he doesn't have a whole lot of 
crazy 
you know he doesn't it's like he doesn't 
have a whole lot of 
you know weird [ __ ] going down 
I mean I you know can list mine 
alphabetical and and 
it's always astonishing to me that 
you know that he loved me so 
unconditionally 
and I think and this is really for 
everybody to hear I think when we stand 
up for what it is 
you know some people will say oh you 
made a fool of yourself or why did you 
do that or why did you show up there I 
knew that if I didn't say that if I 
didn't show up that day that afternoon 
and say to him you said you because that 
was what every man says right 
or not every man but how many women will 
say to you oh yeah or how many men will 
say to you or how many women will say 
that women you know it doesn't even 
matter our gender 
you know I'll call you and we wait for 
the phone call because we don't think 
we're enough because we don't think we 
deserve more and we sit I felt like I 
was living out like you know a Rhema 
Land movie like 
I you know I didn't want to go to the 
bathroom I had to bring my phone with me 
you know it was like so neurotic right 
every time the phone rang it was like oh 
my God it's Ken this guy from the crane 
wasn't and it was like excuse me I can't 
talk to you right now I'm waiting for a 
phone call 
have it ring busy because we don't even 
have call waiting you don't have call 
waiting right now it's like it was such 
a different time 
and 
um 
you know and and that was one that I 
that was about taking back my power 
because in that moment I didn't care if 
he was gonna call me or not call me I 
cared that I stopped that 
um 
that habit 
that bad habit 
you know it had to stop right there with 
me 
you know no man ever I didn't care if I 
was alone the rest of my life I didn't I 
really but no man I was not gonna allow 
myself 
to 
have another relationship 
with someone who 
didn't deserve the privilege of my life 
it's like you had grown into yourself 
and you didn't even know it exactly and 
I was given the opportunity 
to do it and it was with the exact right 
person 
and he came in a different package than 
you probably expected oh my God totally 
different right 
drove a Subaru pickup truck and he was a 
cameraman and you know and he was into 
gardening and I was into Barney's and 
you know and he would say yeah go get 
tomatoes so I would go to the store and 
he'd say no no we're growing tomatoes 
and we're growing them and it's like 
what do you mean we're growing tomatoes 
you know it's like he was growing 
vegetables and flowers and I was buying 
vegetables and flowers and you know and 
he's 
a good man 
he's a good good man 
and you knew what a good man was because 
your father was a good man and it's like 
when I read this I thought you know what 
she came home 
you came home with Ken thank you for 
saying that that is so gorgeous 
I did I came home with him he came home 
and 
and 
you found 
someone who loves you the way you've 
spectated that love as little Amy you 
took a 
you know a messy gorgeous path to get 
there but you found him when you 
developed 
the resolve to say 
I'm not going to give you a hall pass 
I'm gonna I'm gonna basically you said 
you called 
you would call and you didn't and I'm 
gonna call you out on that 
and you held his feet to the fire I did 
and he was ready and he was the right 
one 
right no it was yes and you know he had 
been married before you know when on our 
second on our Like official second date 
he said to me I just want you to know 
I'm never getting married again and I 
said I just want you to know that I want 
a second line that's all I just want to 
have my second glass of wine you know it 
was kind of like I'm not getting married 
again and you know it but 
but life actually threw us together in 
such a way that 
four months after we met and fell in 
love he actually asked me to marry him 
you know 
um 
and 
you know I just I can't imagine 
what you know I I just can't imagine 
how anything could be any better than it 
is for me in terms of the the road that 
I took and the journey that I took and 
that I 
that I stood up for my life 
and the moment I did that I stood up for 
love 
in some form 
you stood up and for love in a sense you 
began to love yourself absolutely 
and that was the key I will accept this 
and I will not accept these crumbs 
anymore exactly no more crumbs I want 
the pie I want the whole pie and I want 
whipped cream and I want extra and yes 
you know clean it up a little nicely too 
and maybe a la mode ala mode shoes maybe 
there should be a guy out there all a 
mode 
oh my gosh I'm starting to think this 
could be your next book all a mode 
I like that ala mode yes he was on the 
um but yes so that's 
that's my My Little Love Story which is 
messy and complicated and gorgeous 
Mighty gorgeous and what would you tell 
somebody who's listening to this right 
now and maybe they're 30 40 50 60 70 80 
and they're in their car or maybe 
they're on the treadmill and they're 
listening to us what would you tell them 
that you would want them to do for 
themselves 
I would want them 
to look themselves in the eye 
I would like for them to go and look at 
themselves in a mirror I don't care if 
it's a compact I don't care if it's a 
full limb and I want them to say 
you're the best there is 
oh my God I have like electricity in 
every body part right now I I think you 
know 
I think that we all need to love 
ourselves the way that we want others to 
love us 
and like us the way that we want others 
to like us and give to us what we want 
others to give to us 
I think that you know 
that's a really important thing is if we 
want people to love us and like us and 
respect us and honor us and 
we have to do that 
you know if we want them to give that to 
us then we need to give that to us we 
shouldn't be 
you know we shouldn't be afraid of 
giving it to ourselves 
I think there's this kind of 
false notion that if we love ourselves 
then we won't have love 
or if we like ourselves we won't have 
people or or if we treat ourselves well 
then because I think a lot of the pain 
that we suffer through is loneliness 
thinking oh my God if I like me then I 
don't need anybody to like me 
you know I think we we've we got it 
wrong along the way 
you know 
um and you know we can listen to 
everybody I know I listen to all of 
these incredible podcasts and read all 
of these things about being enough you 
know 
I think that it's more than just feeling 
like being enough 
I think it's 
knowing that who you are is pretty 
extraordinary 
exactly exactly as you are 
yeah you know we all [ __ ] up and we all 
make mistakes and we all fumble and we 
all have so many flaws and we all wish 
we could take back Things We Said and 
did and you know we all wish we could 
rewind 
120 days you know we all wish that you 
know we were more compassionate or you 
know 
but 
it's that's all of that stuff makes us 
so incredible 
it makes us understand another human 
being 
right 
totally I I often say I wish you know if 
I could create something it would be an 
undo button for my life 
but I click undo on that thing that 
I can do it online and and knowing that 
it's okay to not be perfect 
and I think we hold ourselves to these 
crazy like oh my gosh if I'm not perfect 
then my World's Gonna Fall Apart and 
people will see that I'm not perfect and 
they're not going to want to be around 
me and yet I find the people that I love 
the most in my life are the people that 
are willing to wear their imperfections 
as a as a sandwich board 
like and they're announcing it to the 
world they put it over their head and 
it's on their chest and it's on their 
back and they're walking around Times 
Square or Michigan Avenue in Chicago 
saying here's what I got and it's okay 
and those are those are people that 
you can really have a real true 
connection with and remember all of your 
stuff my dear friend my dear listener 
all the things that you think make you 
unlovable unbatable 
unrelationshipable if that's even a word 
that's a good word it's a good word 
unrelationship a ball I it's it's all Bs 
at the end of the day you are magical 
and glorious 
exactly as you are in the day that you 
do what Amy Farah says and look in the 
mirror and be like God I love this 
person look at all of the beautiful 
things I've seen I've done this exercise 
with clients and it produces tears for 
them and me every single time we look in 
a mirror together and I'll say tell me 
what you see 
tell me five things if I even talk about 
it it brings me to tears they will tell 
I look at the thighs look at the burnt 
skin on my face look at my eyes that are 
crooked and I'm like that's what you see 
isn't that amazing amazing and if you 
look in the mirror maybe look in the 
mirror you guys find someone who loves 
you an elevator person and do this 
exercise with them it will bring you to 
your knees and transform you in the most 
sparkly way what you think others see is 
not what they see 
and isn't that remarkable it's kind of 
like you know when we see a piece of art 
right let's let's for an example you 
know 
a stained glass a piece of stained glass 
and we look at it and we stare at it and 
we think oh my God how gorgeous how the 
light comes in and oh and and you know 
that's 
exactly who we are we're pieces of you 
know edgy and and misshapen and and you 
know dark and bright and so you know 
we're we we are 
and extraordinarily gorgeous mosaic 
and we're fill everything 
that we do I think the whole thing about 
perfection 
you know is so out of whack and it's 
you know what is perfect and and if we 
think about you know when we read about 
somebody taking their life right and we 
go oh my God wasn't he happy 
wasn't he didn't he have a perfect life 
didn't she you know and 
no they didn't he didn't and we and and 
Society is such that we have to 
everything needs to be perfect 
right and neat you know and and like in 
boxes and filed and you know it's like 
you can't have an overstepped 
refrigerator you know you're not allowed 
to have chantras you know but that's 
what life is 
life is a giant junk drawer if one is a 
giant drunk junk drawer it is 
you know and 
and I think that once we really really 
get that you know once people can say 
wow my life is a junctural you know I 
got all this [ __ ] in there 
you know what is it that you want to 
keep that makes you happy 
what is it that you know I'm not into 
the whole you know touch that Marie 
whatever her name is or a condo you know 
bring you Joy if not Pitch it you know 
I'm I'm I'm the chick who still has 
stuff in her closet from 1992. I 
couldn't fit in it if someone literally 
like said I'm gonna 
I'm gonna you know like rip you to 
shreds if you can't but I have I have 
stuff in my closet Ken once said to me 
Amy is this is true he said is this 
a belt and I said no Ken it's a black 
mini dress 
a black mini skirt he said oh because it 
was like this big and it was like when I 
was you know 102 pounds and I keep 
things you know it's like and he was 
like is that a belt 
I laughed and I said no Ken it was a 
skirt I used to cover my bum and you 
know it's like I keep it in my closet 
because I think wow what was I thinking 
back then you know and who was I Batman 
and you know and and all that stuff and 
I just think we need to love ourselves 
and accept 
you know all the [ __ ] that we do because 
it gets us to where we want to go 
100 
absolutely I mean and Jill you know how 
much we love Jill she's still share 
Murphy I hope you're listening she's 
like the queen of this you know 
um 
would just we're afraid to love our own 
lives 
yeah yeah and we and and we need to 
yeah and like Jill says you've got to 
let go of all the [ __ ] you've got to let 
go for what you really want and let go 
of the things you think that I think 
look at yourself in the mirror and you 
know what here's what we all do let's go 
back to this mirror metaphor guys look 
at ourselves through some damn Carnival 
mirror that makes you look short fat and 
squatty right sorted and distorted and 
that's the mirror with which we look at 
ourselves exactly that's perfect 
and I want you to metaphorically get a 
straight mirror and look at yourself and 
do this with someone that loves you and 
do the compare contrast it's going to 
knock you out of your chair if you don't 
cry write me a note 
I'll take you out to the bike racks and 
we'll duke it out Schwinn Schwinn 
Schwinn all all the way and Amy is there 
anything I didn't ask you that you want 
our listeners to know to take with them 
you know I think the only thing I would 
love for them to take away from all of 
this 
is that every single thing that we do 
the shameful things the dirty things the 
weird things 
the joyous things 
the Glorious things 
every single thing is what makes us 
extraordinary 
we're you know 
every single thing I mean I in the in my 
book in the in the very very very very 
very beginning you know I write this you 
know which is so cliched at this point 
but I write a letter to my younger self 
and 
you know and Brooke my publisher said to 
me what would you tell your younger self 
Amy really what would you tell her 
and I would tell her to do exactly what 
she's going to do because when she says 
when I grow up I want to be 
she grew up to be exactly who she wanted 
to be 
um 
and and I think that that's something 
we all need to feel better about and 
look at you know when we say that when 
we're little kids and we say when I grow 
up I want to be like her 
well 
I became exactly who that little girl 
wanted to be 
awesome 
and I and I think that that's something 
that I would want people to look at in 
their lives 
we become exactly who we want to be 
when we're those little kids 
if we in fact 
don't for one moment think we should 
have changed anything 
um 
so think about who you want to be you 
guys 
and sometimes we don't know that and we 
haven't thought about that so it's never 
too late and all this crap that's 
happened to you and if you're sitting 
there with those big negative oak trees 
in your mind I want you 
to get rid of those and no you know we 
say and I took this I think from Tony 
Robbins I can't even remember I've read 
it in so many places what you want to do 
you can look at you can look at two 
things you can say God what a mess right 
exactly 
but those who are able to find the 
meaning in the mess we're all a mess 
I can tell you I can delineate 37 messes 
that I've created in the last 37 months 
right but if you find the meaning in the 
mess 
that's where those lily pads come in 
like ah okay this is what I got from 
this and it brought me here and that's 
your story and Own It own it because if 
you didn't have the messes you all 
you've got to do is go back and find the 
meaning isn't that fun think about the 
messes and find the meaning in it and 
own it 
absolutely you know and it's it's so 
extraordinary that you and I are talking 
today the day after Tina Turner died 
yeah because her life was that example 
I mean when you read about who she was 
when she you know with 16 years of abuse 
with Ike right and you know and left and 
with 37 cents or 36 Cents and went you 
know and was on food stamps for a while 
and crazy stuff right 
um she took every bit of poison 
every bit of poison 
and turned it into medicine 
she took every single thing that 
happened to her and transformed her life 
and I think she is an extraordinary 
example of a woman or anybody who can 
say you know what I'm gonna own my power 
now 
after 60. after 60 years old it's 
extraordinary and when she you know and 
I read this today or yesterday when she 
was in court you know for her divorce 
proceedings 
and she didn't want anything 
she didn't want the house she didn't 
want you know she didn't want her the 
rights to her music she said all I want 
is a future 
that's all she wanted I mean it was kind 
of like wow 
she wanted 
she only wanted her future 
doesn't that you know it's like you 
think about it and you think here's this 
woman who we loved right and we loved 
Tina Turner not just because she was a 
fierce fiery gorgeous Queen 
we loved her because she overcame 
so much stuff 
that when she stood on that stage and 
sang and shimmied and used her body and 
used her power because we had already 
known 
that she was you know abused and used 
and hurt and you know and tried to kill 
herself and all this stuff 
so brings us right back to you know we 
root for those people 
movie theater 
and we have to start rooting for those 
people in life because 
people like Tina Turner 
really truly I mean she pulled herself 
up and out 
and maybe somebody would think oh I 
can't share that kind of story that's 
too dirty that's too messy that's to you 
know it's down and dirty ugly 
but she shared it and it's why we loved 
her 
exactly guys share your mess with others 
because we're all a mess and if you 
share your mess with me it's going to 
make me share my mess with you and 
that's how we connect and just like Amy 
said at the beginning we are love and we 
are our relationships 
that's what we are and Elevate the 
people around you be that person not 
just in a movie theater watching 
somebody else's life Elevate the people 
around you but most importantly look in 
the mirror and Elevate yourself 
and think about what you will and won't 
accept from now on and I want you to 
remember as always you guys love will 
come to you in the way you want it and 
remember it's a when it's not an if 
exactly it's a win 
it's a when okay Amy came from you know 
non-traditional you know everything and 
look at her story right and she owned it 
and she took responsibility for her own 
life and grew into herself and said this 
is what I will take and this is what I 
won't take and has that best lid to her 
pot and her love just like you've heard 
me talk about a thousand times came in 
an unexpected package so I wanted you I 
want you to be inspired that he might 
drive up in a Subaru truck he might be 
on a crane filming you or he might be on 
a train he might be sitting next to you 
on a plane he might be you know the gym 
teacher at your kid's school she might 
be the bus driver I don't know but be 
open to love and know what you will and 
you will not tolerate this time around 
because remember good love it's always 
work but it's never soul-crushing work 
overall it's easy 
I love that 
I love that and you know I just want to 
add one thing 
let's not be afraid to let people in and 
love us 
um 
I think that that's also because when 
you talk about packages 
you know 
we have an idea of who that person is 
what that person is going to look like 
or what we want right 
and a lot of those people that we think 
oh I want that that's you know that's 
the package 
yeah that package may not be kind that 
package may not be good that package May 
not have a real long shelf life 
you know I think 
I think we just listening to you made me 
just go wow you know 
we want love but then we kind of 
push it away or keep it a distance or 
you know think oh no that's not 
you know I think we also have to really 
talk about what it is that love looks 
like 
um 
you know what is what what are you look 
are you really looking for love or are 
you looking for something else 
right 
you know 
maybe it's that we don't really know 
what how to describe what love is 
you know that's something you know 
that's that you're making me think about 
right now is you know what what do we 
think love is 
oh that is like that is going to be our 
podcast I got you that's true that's 
like what do we think love is 
love oh I will tell you what love is a 
verb it's not a noun it's an action it's 
not a feast 
exactly 
and you know that and I know that and I 
think anybody who's really honest with 
themselves don't mistake chemistry for 
love lust is Nature's Way of tricking us 
into attachment okay 
that's what I would that's very true 
that is perfect that is so just that is 
so true right and that's where you get 
into messy love you all let's just call 
that messy lust at the end of the day 
right 
who has had that so Amy you are 
remarkable as a human being and I I'm 
gonna I'm going to say you are now my 
friend just like Jill is my friend and 
I'm so happy this makes me so happy you 
know 
you're a blazing talent and I can't wait 
how can we get a copy of your book I 
know this is early and we're in like 
three quarters stage we can pre-order it 
yes you can go on to Amazon 
pre-order it I'm gonna put a link in the 
show notes y'all so don't worry please 
order this book I'm telling you I still 
need to get out on a 26 Mile 26 000 mile 
run to process all of this and this is 
one you're going to want to read again 
again and again because it's the 
opposite of messy it's beautiful so 
thank you so much for being a guest and 
promise me you'll come back to our show 
I will absolutely come back 
okay so happy and maybe we can bring 
Jill and Melissa Gilbertson maybe we can 
do like a whole thing about what is love 
oh oh yes yes yes yes yes yes yes that's 
a resounding violence 
I think that would be extraordinary what 
what is love what is love well oh so I 
can tell you you are love and this has 
been I and I'm gonna I'm gonna say this 
hearing you read my life 
is one of the highlights of my life and 
I mean that it's 
you really cracked me open so thank you 
you gorgeous woman 
right back at you you cracked me open 
with your book so love right back at you 
so I'm honored to have had this 
conversation and I cannot wait for our 
next one so smart daters order that book 
and remember listen to our fill out our 
podcast listener survey because we want 
to continue to serve you that's the goal 
of this podcast we want to help you to 
become happier Messier cleaner 
into your life all of it so fill out 
that podcast so we can bring you more of 
what you want to hear with that being 
said follow us on Instagram we've got 
lots of stuff to inspire you on a daily 
basis we love you and as always see you 
next week 


what brought you to Smart dating Academy 
I vividly remembering that moment I 
first saw you on this TV show called the 
first look but not dating anybody I was 
single I just turned 50 I was sort of 
Frozen as I was watching how you 
describe your dating service and I heard 
you speaking and then I thought oh I 
have to contact this lady I need this 
lady right at this moment this is 
exciting like how do I navigate all of 
this so really putting a process 
together that made it not overwhelming 
yeah until someone came into your inbox 
let's talk about him you're talking 
about my husband right your husband he's 
married now you just felt like he was 
different than any of the previous 
people that you had dated but in a good 
way yeah in a good way that's so true we 
made it two years and maybe just 
recently got married congratulations 
thank you 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators you ask and we deliver I 
hope you've had a great week and I'm so 
excited to be here with you you guys 
love ways and who doesn't love this I 
love this ways that we can make 
ourselves feel better like in the moment 
not a year from now not two years from 
now but today and I brought someone who 
I think is amazing warm empathic and 
Carly Holden is an author actor coach 
and somatic experiencing trauma 
practitioner like that's amazing so what 
she's done is she specialized in helping 
people for the last two decades that 
have been in poor relationships develop 
better boundaries yeah overcome anxiety 
and overthinking hmm that's me and to 
develop a deeper spiritual connection 
more self-love and self-worth so that 
you dear listener can create the life 
that you dream of and that you want 
Carly welcome to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast thank you I love the way 
you said all that as it made me feel 
better 
oh good good good well let's hop right 
into this tell us 
um tell us about you how you started 
doing what you're doing and I think your 
story is very relatable and you know 
kind of um I I hand the mic to you okay 
yeah thank you for having me I'm excited 
so when I graduated from Berkeley with I 
studied psychology and I just I have 
this aha moment where I was like God 
Universe what do I do with my life now I 
feel like I I wasn't I didn't know how 
to think past college and I had this 
voice say help people through the media 
I was like okay what's media 
and I literally this was 
97.98 and I googled or I know I did 
Google sorry Google was just coming out 
4-1-1 remember information oh my God and 
I just I I became an intern at a uh NBC 
long story short took me to Hollywood 
working in production acting all things 
I did Growing Up and next thing I knew 
uh successful directors and actors and 
producers were saying to me would you 
please come to my house and teach me how 
to be happy because I grew up with NLP 
meditation yoga so I had a lot of tools 
that I was living and exuded this energy 
of I'm just happy because so I'm 22 and 
I'm like okay sure so I'm showing up at 
these rich and famous people's homes and 
I'm guiding them through breath and 
self-love and I'm just doing my thing 
and I'm like this is amazing you're 
being happy and you're teaching others 
how to be happy what's better than that 
well that's when I was guided that after 
a few months of being there to friend I 
became friends with Adam Sandler and Rob 
Schneider and they they asked me to hang 
out with them the day Chris Farley left 
this world 
so that moment was a pivotal moment for 
me where I said to myself I don't know 
what this is I don't know what suicide 
and darkness is I hadn't I hadn't woken 
up to my own traumas so that may lead us 
into a different direction and I just 
wanted to say denial is a big part of 
trauma not getting real and that's 
something I grew up with a lot of I 
remember my grandma my dad's mom just 
the sweetest lady everything was always 
great so we either have like when we 
first just talked the Spectrum right 
it's big stuff in your face or maybe 
it's just hidden and there's a lot of 
denial and sugar coating and not being 
real either way the nervous system 
doesn't like it the body doesn't like it 
kids when we're little we feel the 
stress our parents hide from us that was 
me and that's how I raise my kids now 
I'm always real it's important to be 
real so you separate it so they don't 
take on the stress of mom and dad that's 
one tool but we can get into that with 
parenting later uh tell me if I'm going 
too fast no what I wanted to find out so 
you were the happy person and then Adam 
Sandler and Rob Schneider called you 
Chris Farley passes and now for you 
question were you the person that you're 
referring to you were always happy were 
you in denial so let's talk a little bit 
about this and what your next steps were 
beautiful I was in denial that's me I 
was not awake to my own family childhood 
trauma patterns that were more little 
tea like you you and I were talking 
about you you know you we don't always 
know what's bothering us and so when 
when we do this work when we go into the 
body which we'll talk more about some 
tools this people will ask me how do I 
know you don't have to look for it it 
will come out naturally like in a dream 
it will reveal itself and you'll be like 
I never knew that really bothered me oh 
wow and we honor every part of our 
life's experience through not just our 
mind we get out of the head and into the 
body and we can talk some tools on how 
to do that later oh my gosh okay so tell 
us what happened then so you're with 
these guys what's going on like how does 
that lead you to where you're doing this 
work now okay so that's a that's a lot 
and I did write a book so if people want 
more details because that's another 
story it's very embarrassing it's very 
vulnerable and I Heard a Voice a decade 
ago say you have to write this book I 
said oh gosh no I will never say all 
that that's that's like standing naked 
in front of a mountain and it said oh no 
no this is my internal spiritual voice 
no you will because you'll help many 
many people and I said okay done I'll do 
it so I would say if we cut forward 20 
years 
uh my own dysfunctional relationship 
started to reveal their pattern to me 
until I got hit so hard I don't know if 
I want to give that away because it's a 
big part of the book I got hit so hard 
that I said Thank You universe so the 
Big T hit me 
the big big team not physical hit but 
yeah yes both somebody hit you yes 
relationship abusive relationship amen 
and I just want to add 
not to get tuned is abusive in a 
different way I was with somebody 
that it wasn't just like oh I'm an 
abuser sorry I don't know if we 
can swear on here okay it was I'm not 
well you need to stay away from me and I 
wouldn't because I Had No Boundaries 
because that's how I grew up there there 
was a lack of boundaries and so that's 
what the universe wanted to wake me up 
to so this person was like something's 
wrong with me you need to stay away from 
me and I wouldn't so this person who had 
two parts to them like a schizophrenic 
or split personality got me into therapy 
to learn my role of why I was putting up 
with his 
so it's a it's a heartbreaking story 
because it's not just a Jerk It's 
somebody saying I'm suffering help me 
out of here and my codependence and lack 
of boundaries wasn't helping so I really 
go into how I woke up to owning my part 
if you looked at Carlene who was always 
like you said the happy girl and then to 
go wait what is my role if all these men 
I've attracted they they don't look good 
oh they're the bad guy no no no own your 
part so that's a big tool I owned my 
part what is this about me that's 
attracting relationships like this and 
putting up with so much and while I'm 
accepting this exactly boom that's what 
I woke up to and that's when I became a 
trauma practitioner doing Peter Levine's 
three-year training to unwind the 
nervous system 
and uh I woke up to a lot that I wasn't 
aware of so it's there oh it always 
takes two and I think that's a really 
good tool to help people with because a 
lot of people feel like I haven't done 
anything wrong why is this person being 
such a jerk 
because this isn't it's not about right 
or wrong it's about I would say that's a 
great tool for people to use right away 
what am I learning from this situation 
when something not good happens whether 
or not it's dating or a relationship 
what is this showing me what is this 
about me 
I love that question 
what is the lesson about me right and so 
you were with somebody who basically had 
Good Side Bad Side a little chuckle hide 
the good hymn was good but the bad hymn 
was really bad and one good hymn came to 
said you got to get out of this like bad 
me is not good for you and why are you 
putting up with this and that was your 
Awakening 
um amen perfectly said yep okay got it 
got it got it and and so you found out 
that this lack of boundaries Little T 
the trauma that you had made you accept 
everybody say yes to all things be happy 
tolerate all of this abuse and 
dysfunction and say thank you sir can I 
have another exactly exactly and I know 
a lot of people can relate to this 
because these are the people I help and 
I just wanted to add to your point that 
this is such a good tool I wish somebody 
would have told me the longer we put up 
with it the more trauma we're 
accumulating in our body and mind 
say that again for the people in the 
back so the longer we put up with any 
dysfunctional situation whether or not 
it's dating a relationship a friendship 
a family member the longer it takes to 
unwind all the adrenaline we keep 
building in the body and I'll use an 
analogy if that's confusing for people 
that may not know about adrenaline and 
the nervous system yet if you want to 
get healthy and let's say lose 100 
pounds you have to eat well and move 
your body for quite a few days if you 
don't move and you eat garbage what are 
you doing you're accumulating more 
weight more toxins so won't it take 
longer to get that out yeah same with 
our emotions and how we let ourselves be 
treated and I didn't know that so many 
years 
I got to spend many years unwinding but 
it was be and not but and it was a 
beautiful process I would never take 
back and I know it deepened my cup to 
make me better for others because I 
remember the first psychologist I worked 
with in Hollywood my thought was 
okay you're trained you got your PhD you 
got your tools you sound amazing but 
have you been through it have you been 
through heartbreak and 
how do you know personally and I don't 
even think they could answer because 
they can't really talk about themselves 
I'm not sure but I am very open I talk 
about myself because 
how is somebody else going to change if 
they they feel better people love to 
change when they hear how somebody else 
did 
100 and and just so you guys dear 
listener you know that I know we were 
talking about Carly being you know the 
happiness Guru and teaching Hollywood 
celebrities how to be happy but 
something that you wrote you know really 
stuck with me and I think it's very 
relatable that you were also having you 
know massive symptoms of anxiety panic 
attacks hallucinations Suicidal Thoughts 
unhealthy relationships you had all of 
these things so you were happy on the 
outside but tormented on the inside and 
didn't even know it until you were 
cracked open yes to clarify well said 
however the first 30 my first 30 years I 
didn't know those symptoms they happened 
when I got triggered in my mid-30s so I 
really was happy because that's what I 
was raised with I didn't know what was 
bubbling underneath 
until I got hit hard and then so to keep 
it simple all that adrenaline I was 
talking about that gets built up it can 
lay dormant this is very confusing about 
trauma that I discovered and found in a 
book when I first got on this path like 
why all of a sudden now so I when I was 
the happiness girl I didn't have that 
anxiety and tormenting thoughts that was 
later 
that's when so stuff can happen to us 
and it and it gets pushed down we don't 
know it's there 
then I 
well there's quite a few things that 
happened so I'll just keep it simple I 
got triggered and that's when it all 
came out because it was time for me to 
deal with it because as we get older we 
can we can only hold it together for so 
long or it's not in our awareness so for 
me that was my trauma pattern I wasn't 
aware of it so when I got triggered it 
was shocking to me wait I was always 
happy what is this why am I 
hallucinating why am I having these dark 
thoughts now remember though I had taken 
a lot of violence and manipulation and 
this was like my fourth serious abusive 
relationship so it all added up that's 
what I mean by the longer the more you 
take Boom at some point you're going to 
get hit does that make sense so there I 
didn't always have those symptoms they 
were later 
okay and so this is after a series of 
very abusive and violent relationships 
so the trauma continued you were digging 
those neural Pathways even deeper with 
every relationship you went back for 
another so at this point by the time you 
were in your mid-30s there you were 
easily triggerable because you had been 
through so much bad stuff yes it was 
time nobody we would wish on nobody 
right and and some just to clarify the 
first three relationships you couldn't 
really tell that's another big part of 
trauma it's more manipulative or what we 
talk about narcissism these days it's 
hard to see it was that last one that 
got really big where I saw a sick person 
get violent with himself and then me 
that woke me up to needing to heal if 
that makes sense and I'm sure a lot of 
people can relate to this those patterns 
of that we need to heal and that's one 
of the tools I love working with is what 
is this pattern Within Me me that I need 
to heal so I don't attract this again 
because right when we're dating we don't 
that was my motivation I don't want to 
go through this again 
100 it's like you hit rock bottom at a 
certain point you're like God the common 
denominator in all of these messes is me 
what am I doing and what do I need to do 
so so at this point you not only take 
responsibility look in the mirror and 
say the common denominator is me but you 
go out and you start to learn not only 
to help yourself but to help others and 
and I think that so many of the most 
beautiful Solutions in the world are 
born by us trying to solve our own 
problems so kudos to you for you know 
building a bridge over that really 
painful Chasm and I'm so glad you're 
here because you understand so many of 
the things that our clients and our 
audience have gone through so tell us 
you know 
um what is trauma what is considered we 
talk about Little T trauma we talk about 
Big T trauma right you and I were just 
sharing before the you know it's like my 
daughter has anxiety right now is that 
little T trauma she comes from a very 
healthy home with two parents that love 
her a lot and in therapy she's like I 
have a great family like I like my head 
just spins right so that what is trauma 
my teacher Peter Levine says it 
perfectly I think you're going to like 
this trauma is not the event it's how we 
respond 
okay I love that 
so bullying okay Robin Williams is 
coming to mind and the more research I 
did on him the more here's my two cents 
then I think this could be applicable to 
people he was bullied a lot when he was 
in elementary school 
bullying doesn't feel good I remember my 
daughter coming home from third grade 
and boom the bully starting and so we 
started to release that adrenaline 
immediately some if I didn't know these 
tools I might be like okay no big deal 
don't take it personally and we move on 
no no no trauma is the nervous system 
goes up this mountain 
and if it doesn't come down to feel safe 
we get stuck at the top and this is 
where all those symptoms are the anxiety 
the so so again let's say it again 
trauma's not the event 
it's how we respond 
and what we typically do without these 
tools like you're saying we're it's like 
in suspended animation yeah 
so if your mother-in-law says something 
little something little let's pick you 
like your mother-in-law I'm just picking 
an example but she keeps saying 
something you don't like and you don't 
say anything boom your body 
it's it's revving up because a natural 
response if we get out of the frontal 
lobe is I don't like that don't talk 
like that but do we always say that no 
we play Mr Mrs nice guy and so I really 
love 
I know we talked about giving people 
tools right away I love working with the 
tools of what's your truth and your 
throat Center our centers are so 
powerful they're not just these energy 
centers chakras I mean they are I like 
to me I feel like I'm the trauma Made 
Simple girl I like to make things 
practical we speak from our heart which 
moves through our throat so all the 
times in life people say things that we 
don't like were we able to say no that 
didn't feel good no thank you or do we 
hold it in and that's when the 
adrenaline builds and we get angry we 
get anxiety we get dysregulated so we 
trauma is being out of Regulation 
deregulated so we want to come in so up 
the mountain some I'm getting stimulated 
I don't like this I get stuck 
that's where that's where I work with 
people to come down to safety what did I 
not get to do or say what are my 
patterns I'm healing and then this 
release happens and the anxiety goes 
away okay and I love that because let's 
take the example of the Mother-in-law 
right at a certain point 
you 
you may just feel like oh gosh this 
isn't a battle you know they always say 
pick your battles right don't let the 
Small Things Great on you but I think 
the Small Things cumulatively add up 
enough so let's say for example my 
mother-in-law is giving me paper cut 
after paper cut on the same thing I 
don't like what you're wearing I don't 
like how you're cooking I don't like 
this right and you're right I won't use 
my voice because I don't like conflict 
so I won't say hey that's hurtful could 
you not say that or the story I'm 
telling myself is that you're trying to 
you know be mean to me is that true 
right so I'll hold on to it so now I'm 
at the top of the mountain okay I'm 
stewing in my Jews I'm in fight or 
flight it's not healthy for me and my 
patience is gonna wear thin at some 
point where I'll probably what do I do 
now you could even be in freeze and 
that's where I get people out of freezes 
when our symptoms get really knock but 
um so what you do now let's say we are 
working together I would work on what is 
your body we'd get out of the head so 
even right now if you dropped into your 
gut 
for example let's say this is your story 
and you picture what your mother-in-law 
saying to your gut's going to start to 
get tight your heart is going to start 
to race we're going to work with 
Sensations your chest you're gonna your 
muscles are gonna start to tighten so in 
most talk therapies what I've heard uh 
they're not working with the body it's 
they're they're analyzing and going 
through the events in the mind so we're 
going to work with the body and then I'm 
going to ask your body your throat your 
heart what do you want to say and you're 
going to say it to me and then your 
body's going to feel something different 
and you're going to like it and then 
you're going to want more of that you're 
going to feel lighter you can breathe 
it's relief it's like let's keep it even 
more simple if somebody walked up to hit 
you do you just let yourself get hit or 
do you block do you move away do you say 
what are you doing 
I like to keep Simple analogies like 
that so if you just take it that's not 
going to feel good 
so when people are working on this and 
working on themselves they're asking 
themselves wait what do I really want to 
say or do and then the what is stopping 
me if if something is and it could be oh 
well you everybody's still using you for 
example well I grew up in a family where 
there's not confrontation that's like me 
you don't you don't confront you don't 
speak up like that everything's okay 
that's trauma that is true I mean my 
parents are immigrants from India and 
there's respect to elders and right and 
so there's cultural and I know my 
culture is not the only one that has 
things like that right there's family 
Dynamics where there's somebody that's 
very volatile and you can't use your 
voice or you'll be swacked across the 
room or you'll be stonewalled and given 
the freezer treatment and you'll be 
given the silent treatment so whether 
it's spoken or unspoken I think that 
these Dynamics exist in all of our homes 
absolutely so the tool people get to ask 
themselves is do I want to work through 
this and when they do what I've I 
thought I could do it all on my own what 
I learned is we can't and that's why 
I've been putting myself more out there 
in the world because we need support 
we need truth the nervous system needs 
truth and it needs support so if you 
can't go get it from your family let's 
say you and I are working together you 
get it from me you get to move your body 
you get to find your voice you get to 
say it to me I get to honor your truth I 
get to support you your body your 
nervous system loves that you come out 
of trauma 
I don't want to fast forward too much 
however then you show up around your 
family and two things happen you're a 
different person it doesn't touch you it 
bounces off you you don't care as much 
you call me and you're like I'm freaked 
out I'm like part of this family but I'm 
not it's not affecting me great or you 
have a moment like you've seen the 
movies where someone speaks up and 
you're like that was amazing you know 
when you see those scenes in the movies 
where somebody's just being bullied 
bullied and they finally say no more and 
you're like 
absolutely 
and those are both win-wins which is 
what we want and I think the reason why 
we're talking about this because that is 
what needs to be healed before you can 
attract a good partner 
So when you say that needs to be healed 
what's that the patterns of what it why 
am I attracting this because we stopped 
attracting it once we find our voice and 
find those boundaries that mother-in-law 
that bad relationship that bully guess 
what they go away 
it's so true I've been practicing this 
for 20 years it gives me goosebumps and 
I'm a perfect example of 
when I'm doing this work I'm like oh my 
gosh those people those events that I 
used to draw in all the time they don't 
come in anymore now what comes in is 
respect kindness love so don't be I 
don't want people to be hard on 
themselves it's okay we all go through 
this and you know some people don't like 
necessarily the Law of Attraction some 
love it it's it's very similar to that 
if we're resonating with so much love 
and self-respect and self-love and 
self-care which are the tools the world 
starts showing us that when we're too 
afraid to have our voice or we're taking 
care of our 
families feelings like you said 
culturally and we're just shut down and 
tired of dealing with stuff we're going 
to attract more of those people and they 
it doesn't feel good so I got to the 
place in my life where it's like I'm not 
gonna die this way and I'm not going to 
live this way so there's got to be an 
answer so now 
yoga Nanda I don't know if you've heard 
of Parma Hansa yoga Nanda he came over 
here in the 20s from India autobiography 
of a yogi so he has self-realization 
fellowships and we go and meditate there 
he says kind and firm that's my motto so 
when we're traumatized or we're 
deregulated or we're frustrated we get 
angry then we respond harshly and when 
we do this work then we can respond with 
kindness and be firm like so for an 
example ah stop you know you're yelling 
that's anger get away 
okay that might feel good but that's 
something we'd want to do more in 
session so then when people can show up 
to someone it's that's not okay feel the 
difference 
now we're kind but we're firm and that 
is something I love that is not an easy 
place to get don't beat yourself up for 
that I've worked many years on getting 
there and hey I'm not a confrontational 
person either so I still get to practice 
and every time I do and I'm kind and 
firm I feel amazing make me sweat a 
little bit but I love it 
because I don't get anxiety anymore 
anxiety means something's not resolved 
and we need to find our voice our body's 
not happy about something and then we go 
in and we dissect that we find it and we 
resolve it does that make sense yeah it 
totally does so I I was just thinking 
about a situation this morning where I 
drove my 15 year old to school and he 
was supposed to be navigating me he's 
like yeah you know there's like five 
places to turn left he's like yeah you 
gotta turn left and so I'm driving he's 
like no no right that was the wrong left 
I'm like dude you and I like my voice 
raise I'm like oh my God you're the 
Navigator why didn't you tell me you 
know and then it was like okay and we 
got to school and it was fine then I 
shot him a text later I said hey I'm 
sorry I snapped at you this morning that 
wasn't my intention and he's like you 
were I had a TV segment this morning 
he's like you were time pressed right so 
so ultimately what could I do in that 
situation to prevent snapping like is 
there a thing 
so I when you here's how we know when 
you said it just now out loud what did 
you can you drop in and fill what you 
felt in your body when you're like dude 
what did you say what were your words I 
was like because he had his friend in 
his car and he was like acting like 
super bro you know like 15 year olds 
like you just missed it and I'm like oh 
my God like 
and it was just like this okay now what 
like I have to get them to school so 
they don't get detentions get to the TV 
studio so I felt I felt just like 
off-kilter like oh my God now you're 
telling you're you're supposed to be 
doing this and you're telling me I did 
this wrong and like you're such an idiot 
and I that 
yeah stay right there fill your breath 
fill your body did you really snap and 
do anything wrong or did you have your 
voice because what I'm hearing is you 
had your voice you're like hello you're 
being a whatever and okay so that's 
using my voice feel that in your body 
right now how do you feel well I it 
sounds much better coming from you 
saying that wasn't mean I was like I and 
I didn't say I didn't scream I didn't 
yell it's like oh my God you're supposed 
to tell me where to go okay that right 
there feel it if everybody's listening 
who's a parent or in any situation that 
to me feels good I tune into people I 
feel your strength where I think the 
trauma pattern is is you apologizing 
after like it's your fault because he 
had a role too he was acting a certain 
way so the healthy boundary or the way 
you could respond instead of owning it 
completely and apologizing like it was 
all you would be yeah you took to full 
responsibility 100 so there's the trauma 
pattern I'd work on with you it's not 
all you you did nothing wrong actually 
if you would have gotten very angry 
where you're screaming and calling him 
names we would look at that you said 
your truth you could next time instead 
of apologizing say hey I'd just like to 
talk to you I noticed these behaviors 
you were having that didn't make me feel 
good 
and you weren't showing me where to go 
so that's why I said hey now feel that 
as I say that does that feel better oh 
my God so much better and so much more 
correct you're right I tend to take full 
responsibility I am the firstborn I own 
a company everything is my 
responsibility right and so you I know 
how to fix things I know and so yes okay 
you just said it I was wondering so you 
learned that somewhere growing up you 
take full responsibility because there's 
something there you want to fix from 
childhood so now as an adult 
you feel that I want to be perfect you 
but we could work on that a little bit 
more to let you not be perfect guys and 
it's happy you're in my therapy session 
with Carly who would have expected this 
this but people love this because it we 
do what we do because we want to be real 
I love being real I'm super I don't know 
how to be anything but real but then 
I'll take response I'm like oh God I'm 
really sorry for being real and that 
would be my part in this right it's like 
I use my voice but then I'll apologize 
and I do love the words I'm sorry right 
and I think somehow in our society we've 
gone so away from using those words 
where I think that they're so disarming 
and beautiful and I try I want us as as 
a culture to learn the right middle 
ground that there are a lot of times 
where it's okay to apologize and say I'm 
sorry absolutely it's out of balance 
otherwise or you say it too much like 
you 
and I'm watching my two and a half year 
old start to be like oh I saw a sigh 
mama and I'm like no no you don't need 
to say sir I'm teaching him now this is 
when you say sorry no no you don't need 
to say sorry now 
so that's something you'd want to work 
on wait did I really do something wrong 
here oh I'm sorry from the heart 
or am I trying to make everything okay 
and fix it and be a people pleaser and 
keep everybody happy no no no we don't 
want that that's what I work with people 
on too I love that I love that and 
so let's talk about all of this stuff 
that we all have inside of us including 
me who you know we all have it like how 
can we attract more love and healthy 
relationships 
well it's doing what we've been talking 
about so far it's going have you ever 
worked on yourself where you go in the 
body and you feel those Sensations no oh 
you're gonna love this it's a whole new 
world so our frontal lobe our brain 
tells us a lot it's beautiful for 
getting us on time getting to this call 
talking to each other I see you in front 
of me getting from A to B it's not good 
for overthinking our feelings and 
trusting our gut that's where we get 
into another part of our brain so your 
question tell me your question again 
sorry it was just attracting more love 
and healthy relationships into our lives 
so you ask yourself 
do I love myself enough to go within and 
feel what I need to feel and find 
anything that may be unresolved where I 
keep noticing something showing up in my 
life I don't like am I 
vulnerable or ready to get vulnerable 
and real knowing it doesn't have to be 
scary because a lot of people that come 
to me have been through very dark scary 
stuff it's not about talking about it I 
don't a lot of times I won't even know 
people's whole story I know what their 
body's telling me and we create a safe 
environment to unwind and come out of 
the trauma again whether or not it's Big 
T or Little T it's do I love myself 
enough or let's say it this way the pain 
of not having the right relationship or 
not having love let that pain be so big 
that you'll do anything to change it and 
that anything is going within and doing 
yourself first I can't attract respect 
and love and joy unless I know how to 
give it to myself first how do I do that 
I start going within and I learn what I 
need to to heal what patterns and ask 
for support and and that that's what I 
did and I love it and to this day if I 
get triggered or something comes up so 
I've been doing this work 10 15 years 
now so what used to bother me for weeks 
hours days months 
I said that wrong let me say that better 
many hours many days many weeks months 
whatever is now minutes and my my 
clients my the people I work with love 
that because they're they're more in 
their first six months so they're like 
oh so what I'll do is I'll find who do I 
need to call right now is it my husband 
is it my daughter is is it my other 
people I've trained with other 
therapists that do what I do 
even knowing I can oh my body's already 
calming down because it's I'm telling my 
body I love you enough to put you first 
and look at this and take our attention 
off the other person oh this is my 
favorite tool if you want love and you 
want good think if you if you even I'm 
very visual so we're looking outside 
right we're going outside I used to do 
this thing when I was little before I 
even knew this work it was when I was at 
Berkeley in my first serious 
relationship and something started to go 
funny I was like wait a minute I took my 
hands and I literally started pulling 
them towards my face like this like no 
Carly stop thinking outside yourself 
bring all your attention back to you 
look at you who are you don't give that 
person your attention that to me is 
life-changing because when we change on 
the inside and really develop this 
relationship with ourself not to sound 
cheesy and I love Whitney Houston The 
Greatest Love is happening The Greatest 
Love of All is happening to me what was 
she singing about 
yourself herself 
she's she's our role model talk to her 
spirit look what she's been through I 
was the same way I in my teens and 20s I 
was writing about self-love so back to 
the beginning of our talk when you were 
asking me questions 
of my journey I was when I woke up to 
getting really triggered I looked back 
at my old writings and I was like I was 
writing to me not the world and I'm 
getting chills right now I was writing 
about self-love because I wrote a book 
called can you please talk to my 
girlfriend because in Hollywood uh men 
would always come up to me and say could 
you please talk to my girlfriend you 
seem so happy and like you love yourself 
and so Rob Schneider at the time said 
hey that's the title of your books I was 
always just writing little self-love 
spiritual things that just channeled 
through me 
and so that's the teaching 
do your relationship with yourself first 
if you really want to find love and have 
fun and have good dates and know when to 
walk away and know when to marry the 
right person 
fall in love with yourself first 
um and falling in love with yourself 
means prioritizing yourself and 
listening to what it is you actually 
need 
In This Moment especially when you're 
triggered yes yes or you could even do 
it when you're not triggered to be 
preventative proactive 
and I want to add one more thing when we 
do this whether or not you're religious 
or spiritual it doesn't matter we start 
deepening our connection to something 
much bigger than ourselves that Divine 
love 
s our socks off it is bigger than any 
romantic love that is a whole other 
podcast we could talk about I just want 
to throw that seat out there because 
after 20 years of doing this work that 
is happening to me now in my meditations 
my heart is exploding with love for no 
reason 
and let's just leave that there Phil can 
you feel me like I don't want to start 
crying but there's something beautiful 
right here that we all because you were 
created in love you are love 
right and love is our higher self it is 
our highest self and the world has put 
fear into us right and every time and I 
love Marianne Williamson and it's the 
course in Miracle says when I realize oh 
wait I'm in fear brain right now I'm 
feeling anxious I'm feeling sad I'm 
feeling depressed the power to shift 
that is squarely within us to go back 
literally to our higher self and say I 
was creative in love and this is my fake 
brain leading me astray so I'm right 
there with you for smart daters that are 
listening to this you know I have been 
talking to you all month about are you 
in fear brain or are you in love brain 
and you have the ability to create the 
miracle inside of you a miracle is going 
from fear brain into love brain so you 
Carly are creating your own miracles 
and the tool thank you for that that's 
beautiful and people may be asking well 
how do I get out of the fear brain the 
the tool is we regulate the nervous 
system we can't just do it through the 
brain some people can I'm not saying you 
can't the people I've worked with and 
myself and I think you might be able to 
relate to this 
if we really want that for your brain to 
stop coming out and like you said the 
the world is full of fear our families 
have stuff we grew up with there's a way 
to forget that and not put our attention 
on that by regulating the nervous system 
coming out of that fight flight freeze 
response no matter how big or little the 
traumas are so if we're in that fear 
brain it means something needs to be 
resolved 
and I feel like because I've gotten to 
find my voice and regulate and complete 
so much and this is what I do with 
people that the heart can open more 
because I feel safe so now I can get 
back to what did create me instead of 
being bombarded by the external it's 
like who cares we leave this work world 
alone we come in alone all that matters 
it's right here it's a journey to get 
there it's not just super easy but it 
feels amazing every step of the way 
can you give us a couple of things that 
we can do to regulate our nervous system 
we talked about cognizance 
self-awareness what do I need right now 
like what do I need to learn from this 
what am I feeling right now okay so now 
we're like I'm feeling angry because Max 
didn't tell me to turn it the right way 
and then looked at me like I was the 
idiot right now now what do I do with 
that like what are what are the steps 
because all of us every listener here 
could stand to use some hey what can I 
do to maybe just Tamp it down we're 
never going to get to zero but if we can 
just regulate at that moment 
okay so first point is you said 
self-awareness that's perfect what are 
my feelings oh I'm getting angry 
step two 
is what is my lesson 
here what am I learning there are two 
different steps 
so for you this morning what could let's 
have you answered if you want for fun if 
you don't have to if you don't want to 
but what do you think you learned from 
this says talking about that situation 
it could be very simply well I'll let 
you answer that first 
I think I learned that I don't love how 
he behaves around friends in my presence 
and tries to be like cool bro so I think 
that graded on me early enough and then 
the lack of responsibility on his part 
for doing his job also graded on me so 
this is the third step fill that in your 
solar plexus right now if you were to 
even close your eyes drop right down in 
right below your heart because I can 
feel it 
that you drop out of your head and you 
feel that sensation 
I don't like 
how he 
and you sit with that you don't go 
apologize 
you get out of your head you go in your 
body and you say thank you body you're 
telling me what how you didn't like that 
I was treated 
and then it gave me chills 
because you're honoring yourself and 
this is the unwinding right there it's 
like oh I didn't like that we 
that's the first step you just sit with 
that you don't have to think we work so 
quickly right then the next thing is 
what do I do what do I say no no slow 
down just be with that drop that's my 
favorite tool that changed my life life 
I was all up in my head I had no body I 
was walking around head when I when I 
learned to drop out of my head I was 
like oh there is a whole world down here 
my emotions started to release I had 
tears I had never experienced that felt 
amazing 
I got into my voice into my power so 
that that step of feeling your solar 
plexus and your truth 
there's there's three steps right there 
do we want to go more well I love that 
because I think that there's so much 
pressure on us myself included like I 
probably I'm I might react but then I 
freeze so I think and I always say oh 
man I should have said this or I should 
have picked up the ball like I could 
have said blah blah blah but what you're 
saying is it's okay if you didn't have 
anything else to say and you didn't want 
to escalate it it's okay to sit with it 
and come back to it and then talk to the 
person use your voice constructively 
when you are not in escalated mode and 
you can really get at what do I feel 
like was a violation what was your part 
and how could you do better for yourself 
and for me in the future 
beautiful like we need to write that out 
that was okay perfectly said I love that 
and I just saw it for your smart daters 
it's the same thing 
if they go out on a date or they're 
dating someone this process is the exact 
same and you made me think of another 
awesome point and you and I I've you've 
been married many years I've been 
married seven now what I've learned so 
that I'm in my first healthy 
relationship in my life in my 40s you're 
married and you have two kiddos yes he's 
amazing and here's why it works what I 
this is maybe another podcast we both 
own our part if any relationship is to 
work both people both relationships even 
parents and children my 13 year old 
daughter and I both do this she's doing 
it amazingly this is my boundary in this 
house 
nobody's perfect we all own our part no 
blaming we can say what we want 
well this this is a lot of tools and 
there's a lot to say around this but 
I'll keep it simple 
if we all own our part It's going to 
flow things can be messy things can be 
hurt things can be wrong but it won't 
get dark and ugly that is when 
somebody's not owning their part and 
just wants to blame so you want to walk 
away from that that's much bigger stuff 
there when you are owning your part 
you're going to attract other people 
that will do the same and it will flow 
so we could practice with your son your 
son sounds pretty awesome if you were to 
go to him yes so if I would love here 
yeah oh my gosh I would love that oh my 
gosh we should do that that would be 
amazing and or we could do it another 
time however you say you get to practice 
and then we see his response 
and he he'd probably say sorry Mom I was 
I was being rude my friends were around 
now the beauty is just this flower is 
just blossomed now the love can flow 
you know and it brings me to I value 
authenticity and I value consistency and 
when you have one personality in front 
of one person and another in front of 
another person I don't love that in 
people I don't have people like that in 
my life so you're right that was a 
boundary violation for me without 
knowing what I valued 
okay that is 
that is so beautiful what you just said 
sorry I I'm no I'm saying sorry because 
I thought I interrupted you so that's 
when we do say sorry 
so we would apply that to even any of 
your patterns where you feel like you're 
too nice or you don't say things at 
certain times let's we would take that 
up a notch let's say I was working with 
you so you're authentic all the time 
even when you don't want to be 
yeah there's a way to do it that feels 
amazing so it's again it's a little 
scary at first but it feels great it's 
like a good workout okay here's a good 
analogy my husband and daughter wanted 
to try I'm still practicing saying the 
word Jujitsu have you heard of Jiu Jitsu 
Jiu Jitsu sure I never knew exactly I 
mean I'd heard of it but I didn't know 
what it was so they said alien martial 
arts right yes yes so they said come 
with me let's try it oh I just lost my 
train of thought why am I bringing this 
up Jiu Jitsu yeah but right before that 
what were you saying you were saying 
your husband and your daughter we were 
talking about the tools uh the 
authenticity oh not being afraid to 
confront okay that's it'll come to me 
something to do with this so in that Jiu 
Jitsu we are confronting we are saying 
things that could make us feel 
uncomfortable so learning I did lose my 
train of thought but I'm kind of getting 
it I'll go back to it it's it's learning 
that it's okay oh I know what it is it 
just came to me I was uncomfortable 
doing it but it felt amazing right it's 
something new people are sitting on top 
of you you're in neck hold you're 
getting out 
and after it felt amazing I'm more 
empowered I know how to get out so I 
think the point is 
when you want to find your voice or try 
new things to be authentic or confront 
when it's not comfortable there's a way 
to do it that feels amazing so just like 
me going to this class being like I 
don't know 
is that him 
oh you've been the subject of my podcast 
do you want to come in here and say hi 
hey 
this is going out to the airwaves so 
um this is my son Max Max say hi to the 
podcast world 
I'm Max so happy to see you oh my gosh 
this is so cute so cute this is perfect 
timing 
well 
so yes he is 
um we are going to the Tailors and so he 
needs to get a suit fixed because we 
have some parties coming up and 
homecoming so so he was like okay it's 
four o'clock so very funny right 
boundaries he's got boundaries nice what 
year what year in school 
sophomore oh fun super fun cool well we 
have some more we could talk about but I 
do we need to let you go to get your 
suit fixed 
we've got a couple did you have any more 
things that you wanted to tell our Smart 
dating Academy listener world 
gosh I feel like we covered so much this 
has been so fun amazing amazing I'm so 
glad that you know you clearly and thank 
you listeners I hope that you you know 
through Carly coaching me from my 
episode this morning in the car with my 
son I hope that you guys all learn 
is he sitting here going what right and 
so and but really that we all go through 
these things and we all feel the 
feelings and then sitting with it and 
then coming back to it constructively 
versus 
blate just saying you're sorry when it 
wasn't you or freaking out at someone 
really sitting with it yeah understand 
what your body needs and then asking for 
it in a constructive way I hope this has 
helped you dear listener as much as it 
has helped me today awesome that's a 
perfect example and Max because you're 
sitting right there do you feel like 
your mom freaked out this morning or was 
it not too bad 
oh 
I feel like it was not too bad but we 
were just kind of in a rush so yeah do 
you feel like you have any part to play 
in it did you do anything that might 
have irritated her may have irritated 
her a little bit yeah maybe my lack of 
directions 
oh 
that's very sweet of you to say we were 
just talking about how when everybody in 
life and I wish I would have known this 
at your age you seem awesome I have a 14 
year old daughter who's doing this too 
if we all just own our part and say what 
it is we want life is much more 
beautiful so thank you for being real 
and just saying that how did that feel 
Mom oh my gosh it was great my son just 
walked into the podcast Studio not 
knowing what was going on hearing he was 
subject of today's podcast and our 
little episode in the car but Carly this 
was amazing where can we learn more 
about you and and your beautiful 
offerings outside is carlyholden.com 
yeah that's perfect my my name is my mom 
which is Karen k-a-r and my dad Lee they 
thought they were having a third boy so 
literally I came out and they're like 
it's a girl we had all boys picked out 
so let's just put our names together so 
that's why it's 
k-a-r-l-e-e all right and then we'll put 
your website in our notes and we'll 
definitely have you back on the podcast 
this was awesome I would love to so nice 
to meet you I wish I could come get your 
suit tailored with you 
we'll let you all know how it goes so 
smart daters if this has inspired you in 
any way it's September and if you need 
help in the dating world if you need to 
learn what your patterns are if you need 
to learn how to use your voice there's 
help out there okay you can there's a 
variety of people we bring you different 
tools and resources and experts every 
week this week I had this amazing 
conversation with Carly Holden feel free 
if you guys want help and actually 
getting your dating life in order you've 
been hemming you've been hawing you're 
like God I need some accountability God 
I need a personal trainer for my love 
life go to smartdatingacademy.com set up 
a consultation with us so again Carly 
thank you for being with us smart daters 
until next week I bid you farewell and I 
send you a week full of nothing but love 
good Juju and 
nervous system regulation 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love not only is she 
a best-selling author not only is she an 
amazing tedx speaker with like a 
bajillion gazillion views on her Ted 
Talk 
um she's also a very dear friend to me 
I'm super excited dazzled and honored to 
have my friend Jill share Murphy with us 
today Jill thank you for being here oh 
my oh my God Bella I am equally like 
levitating from my seat I'm literally 
can you see me floating 
I I feel like I don't know like is 
everybody ready for us I mean I'm 
sitting here looking at you as we have 
done so many times around our TED talks 
and just life in general and I am going 
to very quickly forget that there are 
like 
I'm sure plenty of people actually are 
going to be listening to you might need 
to like send me a virtual pinch and like 
don't say that 
don't say that you guys Jill is one of 
the most generous and I hope you go to 
the Smart dating Academy Channel and 
watch the video because she's also 
stunningly gorgeous with red hair and 
blue eyes but Jill is an incredibly 
generous person that when I did my tedx 
talk offered out of the sweetness of her 
own heart to help me rewrote listen to 
my talk coach me watch me dig my head 
into a bowl of ice cream many many times 
but ultimately to join along 
she is amazing and the reason I know 
Jill is gonna I was gonna say Inspire 
the pants off of you but maybe in the 
dating world we want to keep your pants 
on so she's going to inspire you to 
levitate out of your chair wherever you 
are listening to this right now but 
she's gonna put some sunlight in so Jill 
Jill wrote a book called big wild love 
because Jill after four Decades of being 
single 
found her big wild love and her story if 
I'm thinking about it right now if I 
could show you guys my arms I have full 
body Goosebumps right now but Jill had 
walked through quite a path in her life 
let go of a lot of things to find her 
love so Jill tell us tell us your story 
of big wild love yeah 
yeah that's quite a lead up I mean you 
know what's interesting Bella like I 
like to think about my story as kind of 
like every woman's story even though I 
went through so many things and you know 
I think when it comes to dating in love 
unless we are one of the 
you know I I don't even want to say 
fortunate ones because I have a lot of 
beliefs about whether we find love 
earlier we find love later in life but 
unless we have like this picture perfect 
idyllic life that has us floating from 
like you know this perfect belief in 
ourselves and then we grow up we come 
out of those teen years and now we're in 
our 20s and we're like right on the 
timeline and we get married and we have 
the babies and we lose the baby weight 
and then we like you know age gracefully 
into our 30s and our 40s like nobody 
does that anymore we have no this is in 
life and love and we come to all of 
those choices from very complicated 
Beginnings especially as women I know 
that's their share of things too I can't 
necessarily speak always to the men's 
side I have an idea because I dated a 
gazillion bajillion katrillion men 
for 20 years of my life one that left me 
shattered in more pieces than the other 
from heartbreak until I finally like 
stopped looking at them for why they 
were so awful and I started to look at 
myself for why I was making the choices 
I was making in life so I got engaged at 
a very young age I was engaged when I 
was like 20 to someone who was terrible 
I somehow found the wherewithal to break 
that off I went and I got graduate 
degrees and I moved on and I dated 
really poorly all through my 20s 
horrible man who broke blood first you 
know broke my heart for Bloodsport until 
I found a really wonderful guy 
named Hector who I dated for 12 years 
and when I met Hector I came to him and 
I think a lot of people can relate to 
this fella I came to him so with my 
heart broken by so many people and so 
lacking in confidence in terms of you 
know my choices or the belief that I was 
gonna ever find what a lot of my friends 
had done which was love and marriage 
that I really wanted 
and so when I met Hector he was like he 
was supposed to be kind of a fun playing 
he was you know really good looking and 
he was Suave and he was you know really 
intellectual and exciting and I he 
wasn't looking for anything serious and 
I wasn't either because I believed 
I would never find it so I thought I'm 
going to protect my heart and I'm just 
going to go out with people that are 
quote safe 
who are not going to give me that 
potential because then I have nothing to 
lose because I had dated someone right 
beforehand who did propose to me and 
turned out to be a cheater had a had a 
girlfriend in a report long story was so 
crushing that I just subconsciously 
decided that I was going to be that 
person who was probably never going to 
find love and so I was just gonna date 
like someone who was wonderful in every 
way and if they couldn't or didn't want 
more than that I would be I would figure 
out how to be fine with that and so but 
it was a lie you know because at the at 
the heart of things we want what we want 
and there's nothing wrong with wanting 
love in marriage I mean I think we're so 
taught like don't be desperate don't 
talk about marriage like it's a bad 
thing that we want to have this in our 
life 
and you know I subscribe to that Holy 
and so every year you know when I didn't 
really press the issue or talk about as 
we got further into this relationship 
and it got more serious and we decided 
to be exclusive but we never lived 
together and all the ways that I wanted 
this man to be committed to me 
in ways that he he couldn't never would 
be and I knew that at the very bottom of 
my soul I knew that pretty early on but 
I hung in there because I thought that 
was all I could get oh now say that 
again for the people in the back I hold 
I hung in there because I thought and 
this is no slight against him he was a 
wonderful man 
but I held in there because I thought he 
was my last best shot at anything 
um who else has goosebumps besides me 
right now and I know if I could ask 
those of you listening how many of you 
could raise your hands and say you've 
had a moment like this I think every one 
of us has right and then what yeah yeah 
because yes because we have all had that 
moment if we've not had that idyllic 
trajectory that I talked about in the 
beginning which none of us have had that 
idea now and actually even if we did it 
would be crazy boring we don't want that 
trajectory that's not why we're here on 
life to have perfect lives right we're 
here to figure it out we're here to 
enjoy the road along the way and and to 
pay attention in the hopes that we do 
catch the lessons that we need to keep 
doing better as we travel on that road 
and I think you know for me it took me a 
really long time 
to get to the place of 
um not holding on because I thought it 
was my last best shot yeah because you 
know we come to that that thinking from 
a place that has nothing to do with the 
other person 
and has everything to do with us and 
what we believe to be true about 
ourselves amen amen and and chill so you 
dated Hector for 12 years and in your 
book big wild love which I need to tell 
every one of you guys you need to order 
it like five minutes ago on Amazon but 
Jill tell us what that moment was for 
you like you said you thought you didn't 
want something serious but in your heart 
of hearts you really did want love you 
wanted marriage you wanted the whole 
burrito but you knew you weren't gonna 
get it but she but she kept telling 
herself he could get there what tell us 
about that moment that you so 
beautifully describe in your book and 
what changed at that moment 
yeah what changed at that moment is 
I think in the bathroom when we're in 
situations right 
doesn't everything like really powerful 
happen to us in the bathroom like don't 
we come to some of our best there's 
actually science and I actually talk 
about that in my book there's a lot of 
science behind that but 
um that is definitely going in the show 
notes all good things in life all 
moments somehow happen in the bathroom 
bro 
um 
um that's for another podcast but anyway 
so I yeah I mean I think there comes a 
point in time in any given situation 
where we know that the truth is not what 
we're allowing ourselves to see like 
that beach ball is just rising up inside 
of us and we can't hold a beach ball 
down forever right right where it like 
Rises up through a windpipe and just 
chokes us with the truth and that is 
what happened to me literally that beach 
ball that I've been holding down so 
strategically convincing myself I didn't 
need marriage I didn't need a piece of 
paper who cares about that I have two 
degrees I don't even know where the 
diplomas are like who cares about paper 
this person was there I wasn't alone and 
that beach ball just kept rising up just 
kept every year after year because in my 
mind I knew that I was shortchanging 
myself that I was being in my to me I 
was being a coward I was I was beating 
myself up for overstaying in this 
experience I knew that it was wrong with 
that beach ball 
came all the way up when my boyfriend at 
the time 
said that he would go see a condo to 
live in it which was like 
so enormous I I couldn't even get this 
man to like always commit to going out 
on a Saturday night but now he's ready 
to look at this apartment and I'm 
thinking 
well okay maybe maybe 
I'm here right and I talk about this in 
the book in the Ted talk you know 
I went to there and I was super excited 
and I had all my rose colored glasses on 
and you can probably guess what happened 
which is that 
he never showed up 
it was one of the most terrifying 
moments because I could not look away 
from that that is how change 
interchange and outer that leads to 
Outer change begins is with that 
Epiphany moment of I can't look away 
from this truth anymore which is that 
this is never going to happen and that's 
when I felt you know backed like a 
raccoon on a deck you know like like 
backed into this corner of 
it is either me or him 
like who am I going to choose am I going 
to choose myself am I going to take a 
chance on myself and walk away from this 
experience that is clearly never going 
to give me what I wanted there's no 
looking away from that now I'm laying on 
the bathroom floor in the stranger's 
apartment crying my eyes out wiping my 
snot with some strange guys you know 
dirty hand towels and laying there my 
one of my worst moments ever and I'm 
like are you going to finally choose you 
wow 
or not 
nobody's here you can do whatever you 
want it's not like you know back then I 
didn't get up on a stage in front of 
four million people and say give you my 
worst dating failure that lead to the 
greatest choice of my life 
but that was the moment is laying there 
and just 
you know saying and if I don't choose me 
why 
and if I do choose me why 
um that's really the whole story 
wow when you know the why 
of who you are in dating and 
relationships when you know the why that 
source of your choices 
that's freedom 
that's like that's when you begin to 
stop dating from a place of fear and 
Desperation and start playing dating 
from a place of Adventure and play and 
curiosity where the stakes become 
increasingly different because you're no 
longer 
attached to that it's like if you're 
stuck on an island and you know how to 
make money and find coconuts and and 
take care of yourself on that island 
you're less desperate sitting at the at 
the shore looking for a boat every day 
while life passes You by yeah both that 
may never be coming but if you don't 
need that boat and I'm not saying that 
we don't need or want love of course we 
do we all want love we all need to have 
love in our lives we all want 
relationships but we don't just want 
relationships that you know by proxy 
okay we've got it check move on we want 
good healthy loving relationships that 
give us everything that we want 
you know and I had a great relationship 
with Hector he was a wonderful man he 
gave me a lot 
but he didn't give me enough he didn't 
give you enough and so 
we're understanding that you chose you 
and then what happened 
so I chose me 
and I I picked up and I moved away I I 
left everything behind I quit my job I 
sold my condo I moved away to back to 
another area of the country the only bad 
part of the story because she was from 
Chicago and we didn't know each other 
then but sorry I digressed so she left 
my city 
to go to Pennsylvania I know well once 
we can get rid of covet I'll be back 
more than you want me to be but um 
but yeah and I'm and again I'm not 
suggesting everybody has to do that but 
I really truly learned 
what it took to let go 
to let go to create and open up space 
for the things that I wanted in my life 
because when we have things in our life 
that we don't want like the port is 
blocked and so we can't have other 
things come in because we're so focused 
on the things that we've already got and 
how we are going to survive them 
so I decided to blow up my entire life 
because I knew that if I didn't it would 
be too tempting to go back 
that was right for me but there's so 
many ways for us to let go in love let 
go of you know the relationship we're in 
that's just we know even if nobody else 
does is not working for us to let go of 
the you know beliefs like Bella you and 
I talk about this all the time I mean I 
had a wonderful wonderful mother I love 
my mother dearly and desperately but she 
put a lot of pressure on me like most 
mothers do to a lot of their daughters 
not most but a lot of women 
perfectly aesthetically beautiful body 
had to be a certain size hair had to 
look a certain way the pressure that we 
feel from society to be partnered and 
married and to like not have any 
mistakes or not make any mistakes I mean 
it's just it is insane and we carry that 
we drag that we we cultivate beliefs 
based on what we learn from childhood 
from our parents and then unless we you 
know I always say like we don't wake up 
in the morning and we're like oh what's 
the weather and what do I believe about 
myself today we all do that right past 
the orange juice 
exactly like nobody teaches us how to do 
that so you know it's really you know 
understanding why we make this the 
choices we make and why we sit inside 
the ideas that we do which is 
this is the best I can do I just need to 
suck it up who am I like 
when I tell people you know like I say 
in my TED talk you know my life was 
pretty good but it wasn't good it wasn't 
good enough 
like in some circles that's a that's a a 
line of entitlement like how dare we ask 
for more 
right where we ask for what we actually 
want and expect to get it and that my 
friends is the definition of the s word 
settling 
right and we don't ask for more and we 
keep trying to push that beach ball down 
right you know and you know and you know 
and I know through having Smart dating 
Academy for 12 and a half years and 
listening to the stories of women and 
men and when I ask when did you first 
know or when did you first see the red 
flags or when did you know this 
relationship wasn't going to give you 
what you want every single person tells 
me 
I knew right away I knew in the 
beginning I knew it's very very seldom 
I'm sure there are some of you that have 
been blindsided and things were good but 
the majority of the time when people 
look really carefully all the signs were 
there like Jill said from the beginning 
from the beginning now Jill take us 
through you blow up your life in Chicago 
you leave you go back to Pennsylvania 
and you put yourself 
you put yourself on dating sites I did 
oh my God and you know Bella I did not 
have a Bella which oh my God if I had a 
Bella forget about it geez that would 
have been awesome 
um yes I did we all need a Bella we all 
know in our dating lives and I'll tell 
you what like it's so funny because I 
remember like dating sites were practic 
were pretty new when I had gotten on 
them I mean you know this was a while 
ago and I just remember being like I 
don't even know how to date let alone 
like I now I have to use technology like 
how do I do this and I remember the 
first I got on so I I decided that I was 
going to be on every dating site 
um and that I was gonna I was gonna 
approach it like because I'm a 
journalist I was gonna approach it like 
I'm I'm just writing an article you know 
Jill finds love after 40. like I'm just 
writing an article I'm just exploring no 
biggie 
um and I remember the first time someone 
winked at me on Match I like ran into 
the bathtub fully clothed pulled the car 
I thought they could see me I was so 
freaked out of my mind I'm like what is 
this what is this like how am I supposed 
to do this can you all imagine Jill 
fully clothed sunglasses on hopping both 
feet over the tub and pulling the shower 
curtain oh my God 
I was so freaked out and you know what 
honestly like even today I I think there 
is something that is very like 
um 
you know it's nerve-wracking at first 
until you get the swing of it to think 
that like you know somebody is coming at 
you 
through a computer and I know we're used 
to that in so many different ways now 
but you know when it comes to love we're 
so like tender you know it like goes to 
such a deep part of of us and who we are 
and how we're wired and so what I slowly 
got the hang of it and I made all the 
mistakes I'm sure and I was very lucky 
or smart in that I did I was not on the 
dating sites for very long before I 
finally met the man that I was supposed 
to meet that answered all the questions 
of why why is it taking so long where is 
he already 
um and I I knew I knew what to choose 
for I was a fully formed adult who was 
no longer beholden to a lack of big wild 
love inside myself 
when I came at that dating experience in 
my early 40s I had the mindset of 
maybe I will never meet anyone to marry 
and you know what that's okay by me and 
I don't even say that in a in a 
Pollyanna light kind of way because 
anything is possible right but you know 
I also told myself that if I didn't meet 
and have the things that I want that 
there were so many ways to be happy in 
life and I was determined to do it and 
that allowed me to be very discerning 
about my choices and to not fall back 
into Old Habits which I almost did with 
a few of the guys that I dated and liked 
who definitely did not want the 
commitment and relationship that I did 
and you ladies all know what I'm talking 
about the ones that are like great on 
the date and then once you're gone it's 
like bye hear from them or they call you 
know they like breach like a whale you 
know a couple weeks later or whatever 
there we are we're ready let's go give 
me a jingle we're ready to go right but 
we don't I learned how to 
believe enough in myself and what I 
wanted in life and and to cultivate that 
inner um love and caring for myself and 
confidence and ability to know that 
being happy was a choice and I could 
make it and then I was not a victim that 
it was not poor me why is everybody else 
coupled and I'm not that I was on my own 
time frame that nothing in my life was 
about you know looking sideways to see 
how other people were doing and holding 
myself up to them because we have no 
idea what's going on in people's no you 
have no idea no no no idea and tell us 
about your first date with Dan I love 
this story right we always say love will 
come in an unexpected package right it's 
never he's never gonna be who you think 
he is so I lead you into that with with 
that well I mean my you know my now 
husband he show up at our restaurant 
that we agreed to meet at he I mean I 
think my husband is handsome I thought 
he was handsome back then and I got 
there early I was wearing a straw hat 
that my friends had begged me to buy it 
was really expensive and they were like 
you look amazing in that hat and you 
should wear it so of course I was like 
being the defiant you know big 
personality Jill I was like I'm just 
gonna wear this patent if he doesn't 
like it he's not for me and 
I could see him he looked so confused 
like finding the restaurant in our 
darling little New Hope Town and then he 
finally came in and he had with him 
it was rainy it was supposed to be rainy 
he brought this really kind of nasty 
looking rain hat a rain hat okay what's 
a rain hat pull out of a mud room 
instead of an umbrella and I was like oh 
my God this is so adorable like and he 
and you know the funny thing Bella is 
that 
he I could see like I could see that his 
phone went off and like he reached in 
his pocket and turned it off and I know 
that was his save him call you know we 
talked about it after and he he told me 
that he was sitting there and he was 
looking at me and he was like the hat is 
so weird 
because women we dress for other women 
we don't dress for men oh my God he 
thought my hat was just the weirdest 
thing ever but there was something in 
him 
that was like no I need to stay here 
because this woman is different 
um 
and it was it you know when you find the 
right person I will tell this to your 
whole audience because let me tell you I 
dated for a long ass this time okay 
all different kinds that's hyphenated 
long ass for the work for the record 
right 
when it is the right person it does not 
at this this stage of the game 
it does not take long when you when you 
go out into the world fully formed when 
you go out to the world with big wild 
love you instinctively and reflexively 
and with great awareness and intention 
let go of the things that are not meant 
for you including people situations and 
anything else anything else things you 
think about yourself any toxicity you 
just let that go you do you really 
you really really do because you 
know that no matter what happens you 
will always be okay because you have you 
and you are the boss 
like amen my ex who I thought was the 
boss for 12 years was never the boss 
I gave him the I gave him the big office 
you gave him the big office the corner 
office the keys right and the red carpet 
welcome yes 
and I made him dinner and I cleaned the 
place like 
it took me a really long time to figure 
out what I wish it hadn't which was that 
at the end of the day 
the things I have in love are up to me 
they're the byproduct of my choices and 
those choices are the byproduct of what 
I believe to be true about myself 
and that's it and that's it that's big 
wild love you got the rain head he gave 
you his rain hat to wear in the rain he 
brought one for you guys he brought a 
second rain hat he did he brought a rain 
hat can you believe that who does that 
number one Bella only one he didn't wear 
a rain hat oh no he was too cool for 
that he brought old you in the rain and 
I wore it 
he's like please take that straw thing 
off your dancing off your head please 
wear my janky rain hat because I will 
find you sizzling hot with that and find 
that I should have worn it for our 
podcast 
I'm sure you need to find that hat and 
Joe's husband guys for the record Dan is 
the cutest nicest oh he's wonderful most 
generous loving husband and he's an 
elevator person on steroids he's an 
elevator person and I know that you guys 
know what an elevator person is because 
you've been listening to this podcast so 
it's somebody that lifts you up and 
elevates you and yet keeps you safe and 
grounded that's an elevator person and 
Dan is the ultimate elevator person for 
Jill and it is not too much to ask for 
an amen person in love the same way we 
ask for that at our workplace the same 
way we ask that in our friendships the 
same way we ask for that in ourselves 
yeah and if we're not asking that of 
ourselves first 
we're not ready to go out there yet got 
some work to do 
because absolutely we model we role 
model for the people we date how we 
treat ourselves how we see ourselves how 
we Champion ourselves how we are there 
for ourselves 
and 
that is really hard to come to 
you know unless we're we're lucky and 
we're giving it as in our childhood 
we're given esteem and all these things 
or we've had our ass kicked enough that 
we're tired of looking outward at the 
world for our solution 
it's always in us every single time and 
I really do believe that 
so Jill if you had to give everybody 
here who you've inspired to know my gosh 
I was that person for 12 years and she 
let go and I can let go and she did the 
online thing and I can do this and I too 
can find the lid to my pot the the rain 
hat to my head we should call it for you 
is what were what would be 
you know what would be a couple of 
things that you could tell people as we 
level up in this new year and we all 
want big wild love in our lives and we 
want that big wild love across the board 
like Jill said yes the lid to your pot 
your romantic partner but everywhere in 
our life so what would you what would 
you tell us to do okay 
so big wild love begins with us it is 
the it is the self-love with intention 
that we need that allows us to let go of 
what's not serving us to take those 
risks because risk is involved with 
letting go so that we can create space 
for what we want so the big wild love we 
need to ultimately find big wild love 
with someone else starts with us and so 
I would say this 
tonight when you're drinking your wine 
your coffee your milkshake your 
Metamucil whatever it is sorry your salt 
water your salt water you're gonna take 
out a notebook and you're gonna Journal 
I'm a huge fan of journaling not just 
because I'm a writer because there's so 
much research that if you Journal you 
will change your life and your outcomes 
and the first thing is is to answer the 
questions or look at make a list of what 
do you have now and what do you want and 
look at where the gaps are because 
that's that's the gaps are where you 
need to let go so it's really figuring 
out if you are here if you are single or 
divorced and you want love you want to 
get here what is in between you and 
single and love that is standing between 
you make a list of what those things are 
what you think they are are they your 
kids are they you know shared 
friendships are they the pressures of 
convention are they internal limiting 
beliefs which are huge like I'm too fat 
to find love again right Divine love 
again 
um I'm too 
um I don't choose well to find love 
again I'm not lucky you know fate wants 
me to be single it's a sign from the 
universe that I'm not supposed to be 
with anyone like what are those things I 
call them let goables I love that let go 
of both which is anything you need to 
let go of to get from point A to point B 
so make a list of what those let goables 
are and then as you look at each one of 
them maybe start with three 
so if you have most of those let Gobles 
are coming from your limiting beliefs 
so what beliefs do you have about 
yourself and who you are in love and 
relationship that might be holding you 
back from getting to that place that you 
want to go and journal around them I 
promise you if you do this once a day 
for 10 minutes and you keep your hand 
moving every day you are going to one 
day be aghast at what you write on that 
page and that is when the good stuff 
begins 
and for those of you who don't have the 
book yet I'm telling you on page 
191 of big wild love Jill puts down 100 
potential let goables so if there's a 
Chasm between where you are and where 
you want to be and you really can't 
figure out what it is especially 
internally that you need to let go of 
this list in this book there are 100 of 
them and I promise you I can look at 
every place I am versus where I want to 
be and I can go oh yeah it's absolutely 
number 55. other people's voices in my 
head telling me what to do or who I 
should be right and these are things we 
that you need to know and you need to 
let go of to finally make those big 
moves for your big wild love and I have 
to say one more thing about which is 
really simple for people if you're 
struggling to let go of any of the 
things we've talked about 
I would say the very first thing you 
need to do is to get up in that mirror 
with love and grace 
and all of the compassion in the world 
for yourself 
and say out loud what you know is true 
you don't have to tell it to anyone else 
I know that this person that this 
relationship is not going to get me 
where I want to go 
I know that I'm scared to be alone 
I know that I think I'm too 
insert whatever to be loved 
I know that I'm wounded from X Y and Z I 
know that I am holding on to this 
horrible experience from dating that is 
getting in my way 
I know that this is what is true I feel 
ashamed that everyone around me has 
found love in marriage and I haven't 
what's wrong with me 
just get it out of your body and then 
whatever emotions come what may on the 
backs of it let yourself cry let 
yourself feel terrible let yourself be 
shocked that you would even think that 
about yourself 
and then once you get rid of all that 
muck and all that repressed 
feelings and beliefs that are admiring 
you down 
then you are a clean palate and you're 
free to start dreaming and envisioning 
what comes next but you've got to get 
real with yourself you have to know what 
those things are you have to know and 
for so many of us we don't stop long 
enough right understand what those 
things are and this is really it can be 
a real moment of Reckoning you guys if 
you don't want to see them that's why we 
don't stop like I would never stop in 
the mirror and say this man is never 
going to marry me 
what a terrifying Epiphany what a 
terrifying acknowledgment that was like 
saying oh my God you just took 12 years 
of your life like cash dollars and threw 
it into the lake right right there's so 
much attached to what we're afraid to 
see but once we see it it frees us and 
that is the truth 
amen so take that look in the mirror 
right like Jill is saying and what do 
you truly believe what's holding you 
back and and from personal experience I 
can tell you this when you get to the 
bottom of what those things are that's 
just step one right it's acknowledging 
what those things are it doesn't mean 
you eviscerate those things like okay I 
grew up thinking I'm too fat right and 
it doesn't mean I look in the mirror and 
go I think I'm not dating right because 
I'm too fat it doesn't mean that goes 
away but it means how are you going to 
let go of that and start to love 
yourself as you are or for some people 
maybe to get yourself to where you'll 
feel better in your own skin but 
whatever that is and know that those 
things can come back and they'll always 
be the Boogeyman and the mind monkeys 
that jump around your brain but first 
acknowledging them and then having a way 
to say oh that's just the crazy person 
I've got crazy Hilda in my head who's 
trying to keep me down right now just 
name that altar personality and name it 
a name that you hate right someone like 
maybe there's a person that bully on the 
playground and no it's that person it 
doesn't just go away you're gonna have 
to have a strategy to deal with it add 
infinitum even in the dating world 
especially when we go out into the world 
where life changes or we feel vulnerable 
we're going to have those limiting 
beliefs about ourselves but we have the 
power to revise them and we revise them 
we take that I'm too I'm too old or I'm 
too fat or I'm too whatever to be loved 
to saying I am perfect just the way that 
I am I embrace my curves whoever I meet 
whoever I allow into my life is lucky to 
have me I have so much to offer it's 
reframing the stories and everyone says 
this because it's the truth it's 
reframing them and so to Bella's point 
it's the awareness that allows us to 
know what the story is we can't do 
anything if we don't know what the story 
is we're telling ourselves but once we 
know that story 
we can revise it to be completely 
different because 
beliefs only true if we say so 
there's no there's no definitiveness to 
the things to the beliefs that other 
people give us beliefs you guys let me 
just break this down for a second a 
belief is an opinion 
it's somebody else's opinion we can have 
religious belief spiritual beliefs 
intellectual beliefs but beliefs are 
beliefs because they are not true they 
might be true to you but they're not 
inherently empirically true so a belief 
is an opinion and if I give you the data 
saying well Jill if you don't think 
you're attractive enough I think you're 
gorgeous so how about we shift that 
belief 
right because that's a bad opinion you 
have that is not serving you let's take 
one on that does serve you so that you 
know just right you keep telling 
yourself I'm not attractive enough to 
find love I'm too fat guess what you're 
gonna do the s word settle because you 
are telling yourself some bogus BS Laden 
story and that story impacts our choices 
in a huge way so you know what we can 
change our story 
right now 
we can change it right now and we can 
keep telling the news story to ourselves 
over and over and over and over and over 
until we start to live it and manifest 
it and breathe it and how we do that 
shows to the outside world that's not 
the reason to do it but when we start to 
believe those things about ourselves 
those empowering things about ourselves 
people are drawn to that people want to 
be around other people who are empowered 
emboldened who like themselves and 
you know like attracts like Bella I mean 
you know if we're not thinking if we're 
insecure we don't think good things 
about ourselves that's what we're 
pulling in 
and so the work always starts there 
we're not powerless even though it feels 
like I'm never gonna not feel this way 
about myself I'm never not going to 
believe this about myself 
that may be true that our reflexes and 
our impulses always drive us to the 
place 
but when we have that awareness we can 
stop the train we can say wait a minute 
that's old that was the old belief 
here's the new belief and I'm going to 
write it down I'm going to type it into 
my computer I'm going to write it down 
I'm going to put it on a Post-It note 
put it up on my bathroom mirror this is 
my new belief 
and I'm going to keep telling myself 
until I don't have to anymore it's just 
part of me 
absolutely 
it's not there's no magic bullet Matt's 
that's the really hard thing about this 
stuff is there's like not something you 
could buy to change your belief or not 
some like really simple like one-time 
exercise but awareness is so powerful it 
was for me when I could track back that 
I stayed in that relationship because I 
didn't think I was attractive enough 
to go out and now I was now I was older 
in my 40s now I had a new limiting 
belief that I was too old but I had the 
power at any given point in time to say 
no you know what I am not a perfect size 
six I might never be I might have to 
decompose to get there but you know what 
who I am right now is wonderful and you 
know what if somebody out there wants to 
be with a perfect size six they don't 
want me if someone wants to be with a 28 
year old they don't want me and you 
don't want them 
I was gonna say and I don't want them 
that is not interesting to me so you 
know it's it's like not everybody is 
gonna want to be with us and that's okay 
we're looking for one person most of us 
really for one one 
you know and that's the other important 
thing which is when you have those with 
those you know bold beliefs empowered 
beliefs it's less about whether they 
like you and more about whether you like 
them and once you get to that place 
you're on fire you're unstoppable and 
let me tell you too probable and if I'm 
a lot of you have heard me talk about 
psychotic optimism but if this is your 
first time to the podcast I'm going to 
tell you if you need a belief I'm gonna 
fire hose you with a new belief that's 
going to make you a psychotic optimist 
so here it is love exists for me it's a 
when it's not an if right that baby in 
red lipstick on your liver right now if 
you need me to handle the belief that's 
the Smart dating Academy belief you are 
a psychotic Optimist love exists for me 
it's a when not an if and that will help 
to power up your speedboat in the right 
direction so that is your first belief 
that I'm gonna take out am I good enough 
will love exist for me am I too old I'm 
telling you love exists for you it's a 
when it's not an if okay and right and 
that kind of thinking attracts like 
thinking 
right because you are going to go out 
into the world now with that with that 
fierce 
confidence that is so appealing to other 
people who are fiercely confident 
because that's what you want like any of 
us can go out into the world and find 
any Joe Shmoe or Karen schmarin or 
whatever to date and be with I mean 
finding a warm body is not the problem 
it's like you're looking for Quality you 
are looking for an equal so if you're 
looking for an equal you need to be at 
the top of that game mentally because 
that's what you're going to find 
yourself attracted to and attracted back 
to you you know Bella I love when you 
always talk about like that heart palp 
and how we think that's the sign of our 
soulmate when really it's like a super 
red flag when we don't know these people 
because we're always going to be drawn 
to what's familiar and safe but 
when we have that Fierce confidence we 
stop doing that we might we might have 
that that impulse I know I did 
but that's when they open I tell a story 
in my book about this but that's when 
the awareness comes in and then like I I 
met someone that you know I was beholden 
to him for three days until I was like 
wait a minute this could be three dates 
could turn into three years and I'm 
still waiting for him no way Jose the 
situation I just laughed wait a minute 
and that awareness spared me that's how 
powerful awareness could be but if I 
didn't know that about myself or my 
situation where I hadn't done all that 
work to cultivate my big wild love I 
might have hung in that situation 
because I liked him and he was cute and 
we had fun dates and I couldn't wait to 
see him again but you know what he 
didn't want the same thing 
bye bye 
bye boy see you and that leads to one of 
the 2022 dating terms of the year which 
is called hardballing and you know what 
that means hardballing I've just put 
this together hardballing means you're 
gonna State your intentions for what you 
want people post pandemic are looking 
for relationships they're looking for 
authenticity they're looking for 
commitment and so guess what ladies and 
gentlemen when you're out there after 
you've been on a couple of dates it's 
okay Jill and I are giving you the 
permission to say Hey sir or madam 
I'm looking for a serious 
but fun relationship that could lead to 
marriage is that your intention as well 
and if that person looks at you like 
Darren headlights and say well I I don't 
really know what I'm looking for at that 
point you have permission to cut the 
rope and move on I want you to be with 
somebody that like Jill saying what I'll 
tell you what the Perfect Analogy is 
it's the lid to your pot and it fits 
perfectly it's not that lid that's like 
tipped or you know just doesn't work and 
you're like oh God where's the matching 
lid the lid fits perfectly and that 
means that person wants what you want 
and by dates three and date four if you 
say hey I'm looking for something 
serious a committed long-term 
relationship that leads to marriage 
that's fine that's hardballing don't 
Meander like you're hanging out in the 
wind for six months going well I think 
he does I'm not really sure now hell no 
this is the year commitment 
relationships big wild love for you you 
say what you need and you know what 
Bella I have to say this because I think 
this is a really important point to that 
when we think about letting go when we 
think about using our big our own big 
wild love to let go of things because 
we're no longer afraid of the feelings 
that will come when we release things 
even if they had value to us if we are 
with a person who doesn't want what we 
want that's okay yes that doesn't make 
them a horrible person that doesn't make 
them wrong it doesn't make them bad it 
just means that they don't want what you 
do and you can wish them well and keep 
moving because I find that when I 
villainize another person in dating for 
not wanting what I want that is not 
helpful that's not helpful that just 
makes me bitter or feeds into a limiting 
belief that all men or women are ex or 
all men or women don't want Acts or it's 
so fine to Heart find a good person who 
acts no it's just that person didn't 
want what you did they might be the 
greatest person you know what Hector was 
a wonderful man he was a wonderful man 
he just didn't want what I did and 
who am I to vilify or say what another 
person should want from their life but 
we can choose with love in our hearts 
to release and let go with love in our 
hearts because that's good for us 
so that we don't walk away from the 
experience feeling a sense of bitterness 
or leaning on that victim mindset or 
those broad generalizations of see look 
all men or women are acts no that's not 
true either and I I really think that's 
so important especially in the world of 
dating as we look and make choices about 
what we hold on to and who we hold on to 
and how we feel about the process and 
what we choose to let go of and so 
the people that I dated in the dating 
online dating process there were a few 
that liked me more than I liked them 
um there were a few that I liked more 
who didn't want obviously didn't like me 
you know but all of it I I moved for all 
of it unless someone was really awful 
and no one was 
I moved to the process in a very gentle 
way 
and I was always very careful to let go 
of people in situations that were not 
right for me and I know this is going to 
sound really like wooy and I don't mean 
it that way 
with a with a sense of love and kindness 
and compassion go ahead go deal with 
your life you're not for me thank you 
for showing me that 
thank you for showing me that because 
that's just allowing me to reinforce my 
own goals and intentions 
you know what we call that bless and 
release 
okay 
and release them back inside lesson 
released bye and right 
this I literally feel like we could talk 
for another 17 hours which I know we can 
and I know you're going to be back with 
us Jill is there is there any 
inspiration anything you'd want to tell 
our listeners I know you've given some 
amazing advice already is there any 
other last minute like go do this that 
you'd like to leave us with yeah 
go out into the world of dating and 
please have fun 
[Music] 
I know this is not like this profound 
like you know so good you know 
we are here in life for such a short 
period of time 
and love is not meant to be torture 
let's make t-shirts out of that 
I mean they're they're there needs to be 
an acceptance and a willingness to 
embrace come what may 
with a healthy distance a healthy sense 
of Detachment which is really what 
letting go is all about 
and not making it about us but just kind 
of getting on the ramp the raft and like 
choosing which way on the river we want 
to ride and letting life and love 
surprise us along the way because 
there's no Marathon here there's no you 
know this is not the Hunger Games you 
know there's no trophies for finding 
love on Tuesday right there's no 
trophies like it's all part of the 
process of our lives and so dating can 
be a really joyful experience even if 
it's not about finding the one tomorrow 
and so you know use that act of letting 
go and have released to know that you 
don't you're not stuck anywhere there 
are no definites about large groups of 
people that you release the idea that 
you don't have the power to not only 
choose well but enjoy yourself along the 
way 
ah 
Goosebumps full head to toe I love me 
some Jill share Murphy and I love you 
back my Bella you guys did too thank you 
so much for joining us Jill and thanks 
to all of you for listening today and as 
always download us give us that great 
five-star review because Jill is amazing 
order her book on Amazon big Wild Love 
And subscribe to our newsletter at 
smartdating Academy 
smartdatingacademy.com lots of free 
information you'll see who's coming up 
and all of the things and of course 
follow me on Instagram to join in our 
Instagram live we are here to bring more 
love into your life and more life into 
your love and we will see you next time 
on the Smart dating Academy podcast 


don't wait for something to happen to 
you like getting cancer or going through 
a divorce or losing someone you love to 
do the things that you want to do and 
show up differently in life and um don't 
wait for it so I think that's my driving 
force in terms of helping people 
navigate change our friend Susan has 
coined me the champion of change because 
sometimes we do need a champion to 
believe in all the things that you can 
do and I just help people remind I help 
remind people that they have it in them 
and we believe so often in our friends 
and our family and our loved ones and do 
we give the same reciprocity to our own 
belief about ourselves and often we 
don't and I learn the hard way 


jill wrote a book called big wild love 
tell us your story for 20 years of my 
life one that left me shattered in more 
pieces than the other from heartbreak 
until i finally like stopped looking at 
them for why they were so awful and i 
started to look at myself for why i was 
making the choices i was making in life 
subconsciously decided that i was gonna 
be that person who was probably never 
gonna find love and so i was just gonna 
date someone who was wonderful in every 
way and if they couldn't or didn't want 
more than that i would figure out how to 
be fine with that and that is the 
definition of the s word settling that's 
when you begin to 
stop dating from a place of fear and 
desperation and start dating from a 
place of adventure and play and 
curiosity so i decided to blow up my 
entire life because i knew that if i 
didn't it would be too tempting to go 
back we always say love will come in an 
unexpected package at the end of the day 
the things i have and love are up to me 
and that's it that's big wild love 


there's so much when it comes to 
hormones especially hormones of 
attachment and what's happening to our 
body as we're aging when do we attach 
the most you know in our reproductive 
years it's during ovulation when we have 
peaks in testosterone and estrogen and 
then we enter into the ludal phase where 
it's predominantly progesterone but 
during those times of peak you know Peak 
ovulation we're most attractive 
scientific Studies have shown that we 
look our most attractive to a mate 
during those higher hormonal periods of 
higher hormonal concentration and so 
it's also the time where we're more 
receptive to finding a mate Andor mating 
you know having intimacy during those 
times as well and as we age those 
hormones start to decline so we have to 
be very aware using our brain our 
intelligence and optimizing our hormones 
so that we maintain healthy levels of 
hormones and don't find ourselves 
disconnected and apathetic and without 
desire 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm bellagande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back I am really 
excited about today's guest who was 
introduced to me by my friend Melissa 
and Melissa said Bella I have a friend 
who I think you're gonna love her she's 
a little different than what you've had 
on but your energies match and Melissa 
couldn't have been more right I am so 
delighted honored and excited to have 
with us today spiritual medium Erica 
Gabriel Erica welcome to the Smart 
dating Academy podcast I mean I'm just 
so excited to be with you today thank 
you for having me oh my gosh well let's 
jump right into this because a lot of 
this is new to me and ladies and 
gentlemen get your seat belts on because 
I'm sure today is going to be a ride 
because this woman is awesome and filled 
with wisdom that we can both see and we 
don't see so 
so and if you could see her right now 
she put her arms out like yes preach so 
how did you become a spiritual medium 
tell us about you and your story yeah so 
I um when I was around seven I started 
realizing seeing sensing feeling that I 
could kind of connect with things that 
other people couldn't see 
so I could feel energy I could sense 
things I could immediately sense things 
about people that I would meet so this 
was from a very young age and when I 
moved into a house a new house with my 
mom and stepdad I started seeing a 
little boy around the house 
and told them about it which is like you 
know what do you make of that when your 
seven-year-old tells you that you know 
it's gets it can be confusing and you 
know my parents later found out that a 
little boy had died on that property oh 
my God Goosebumps yes and so I had kind 
of been seeing him connecting with him 
feeling him and you know being a medium 
and connecting with spirit and 
connecting with the quote unseen was 
always a part of who I was but I didn't 
know really what that meant or what to 
call it or how to navigate that and you 
know I I think about my 20s as like a 
wild goose chase as many of our 20s are 
right to find out exactly right like to 
find out who I was 
um and through that searching right 
which I mean we could talk 20s for hours 
but through that searching um I really 
came to understand that I was really 
here on a calling from God and to help 
people I didn't know what that was or 
looked like and then eventually it 
unfolded that I was a spiritual medium 
and I actually went to a medium 
and she was like oh you know you're a 
spiritual medium right and it was like 
no but yes but no and also thank you 
because you just 
put all the puzzle pieces nice and 
tightly into my life and help me 
understand what the heck was wrong with 
me right which I always thought gosh I'm 
so haunted I have so many spooky things 
why can't I hear things about other 
people it was so unclear 
and when she kind of like pulled the bow 
on that gift you know the gift was 
already there but she kind of pulled a 
put a bow on it and tightened the bow 
everything just kind of flew open from 
there and everything was like a bonfire 
and I just started I mean within two 
weeks I had people knocking on my door 
for readings literally oh my God what 
for those of us who haven't lived in 
this world described to me the 
difference between a psychic and a 
medium best question right because even 
when I'm about to read for someone 
sometimes they're like wait what do you 
do what is this so um a spiritual so 
I'll start with a psychic a psychic is 
someone who really Taps into someone's 
aura and their energy and can sense and 
feel things about their past present and 
future right and they're really 
predicting future events 
a medium which is what I do I'm actually 
a spiritual medium which means I'm a 
deeply deeply spiritual and committed 
person to God and I mediate information 
from the other side right so meaning 
when I go to read for someone I'm not 
reading their energy 
but I'm actually opening a door in a 
protected and safe way to the other side 
for them right so let me explain like 
you Bella you are already connected to 
the spirit world without me so if you 
were to call me for a reading I am not 
carrying your loved ones in spirit your 
answers your messages with me you are 
carrying your messages with you your 
beautiful family who's crossed over in 
spirit is with you your angels are with 
you your Spirit guides are with you so 
when I read for you I have a gift and an 
ability 
to to kind of open the door to the 
spirit world and when I do that I tune 
into you and your connection to Spirit 
and I hold space 
for your loved ones I hold space for 
your angels I hold space for your Spirit 
guides to show me and tell me things to 
serve you and assist you in your life 
and I mediate that information and then 
I deliver it to you so when I open to 
read for Spirit 
sometimes psychic-like predictions do 
come through I can't control that 
sometimes loved ones who have crossed 
over do come through I can't control 
that I can't control what doesn't 
doesn't come through so I have total 
faith in spirit that Spirit portrays to 
me exactly what you're meant to hear at 
this time in your life when I read for 
you 
so to put it into perspective let's say 
for example I came in to do a reading do 
I have to some extent an agenda of 
connecting with people that have crossed 
over where I want closure or I want 
advice or guidance or reasons like why 
did you do that we never got closure 
like I I want people to understand the 
work you do which is why I'm drilling 
into this yeah well that's what a medium 
does a medium is available and open to 
hold space for that person so if you 
come into the reading I always ask 
people to have three specific questions 
right we cover many more than three 
questions but the three questions help 
prepare your energy and your Spirit 
guides energy and really gets them and 
gives them a chance to prepare answers 
for you so you know sometimes people 
will come in with questions like am I on 
the right path with my field of work 
what are some things I can do what does 
Spirit say about my relationship right 
what does Spirit say about you know uh 
the property that we're selling you know 
that it can be like that sometimes 
people will come in just focused on 
connecting with a loved one right so 
there's all kinds and that's what's 
different about a medium and a psychic 
right you can come in to connect with 
Spirit which you're already connected to 
but have me listen in for you and 
deliver you those messages it's kind of 
like you know sometimes like when you 
can go into 
a friend's closet and you're like oh I 
can organize this girl you don't need 
this anymore these shoes are done you 
can organize it and then you go to your 
closet and you're like I don't even know 
what to do here right you need something 
to come in my closet with you this 
morning did you have did you have did 
you have a premonition of what happened 
this morning with me in my wardrobe 
right but like someone else can come in 
and that's kind of you know it's a silly 
example for something that's really 
really sacred and profound but it's it's 
someone it's me who comes in and 
connects to spirit with you and for you 
and really Tunes in and listens in and 
is able to deliver you messages that 
you're meant to hear so yes to answer 
your question you can ask about love you 
can ask about life you can ask about a 
loved one has crossed over so the only 
thing I don't do in readings is I don't 
demand or yank information so it's not a 
seance 
I don't call out to your grandma and and 
you know really try and get her to come 
I'm a medium so I need the information I 
have been training for over 15 years so 
I know how to open the door to the 
spirit world in a safe and clear way and 
tune in for you and your energy and tune 
in to the answers uh that your guides 
and your angels and your loved ones want 
to give you 
okay gosh and spirit could be anything 
it could be God it could be your angels 
it could be people that have crossed 
over the line you can tell I'm a newbie 
at this world so and I'm figuring other 
people are and we need to know all of 
the tools that exist that are out there 
right it's like wow am I in the right 
space of being a love guide and a love 
coach and a dating coach so right those 
are the kinds of questions to ask like 
help me with my guts 
yeah exactly exactly and you can you 
really you know you can bring anything 
to the table when you're working with a 
medium that you trust and you know bring 
it to the table and really see how how 
Spirit responds you know amazing things 
happen in reading so the thing about 
readings is like you know you can 
explain them over and over and over 
again and I can tell you all of my 
experiences but every reading is so 
unique and sacred and special every 
reading is there to support the person 
that wants to get the reading and wants 
to connect with spirit in that way 
wow amazing 
um well let's take I know you've read 
for thousands of people 
and you've amassed a lot of information 
throughout the years you've even 
developed this course that we'll talk 
about as we close out the the episode 
but if you had to say and I'm sure 
people with love you work with a lot of 
people that maybe Haven't Found Love or 
on the path to finding love or have had 
just their hearts broken in love a 
hundred thousand times and yet they're 
resilient and they want to do it again 
and they want to find love what are the 
three things in the spirit world that 
you most often see that are blocking 
people from love 
um okay so there's a couple of things 
um 
and it's so funny when you say three and 
and like I'm like yes we discussed three 
and now I'm like oh my gosh I have ten 
but anyway okay that's fine let's do ten 
let's go there girl we're all we are 
very flexible so you know the the first 
thing that comes up right at the door is 
fear right and fear is 
something that blocks us from so many 
things right and and I think what 
happens is and what I've listened in on 
these readings and heard Spirit talk 
about is fear and we look back and we 
think oh my gosh like this has happened 
and it was so catastrophic in my world 
and I'm so heartbroken and this was so 
horrible you know that this happened and 
you know one of the things and one of 
the ways to work through fear of 
repeating uh you know things that have 
that have happened in the past is to 
understand that those were life lessons 
not life sentences you are not now 
sentenced to a life of living alone 
because you were vulnerable and put 
yourself out there and it didn't work 
out life lessons 
we are here to learn and spirit talks 
about that so much Spirit talks about 
Earth being a classroom 
and really those are our life lessons 
and to not just hold your feet to the 
fire of these past I put in quotations 
mistakes when we really know their 
lessons uh anymore so we just we're 
afraid and we're afraid we're going to 
repeat the same thing over and over 
again and so we start to build up this 
hard shell just like no no it's cool 
it's cool I'm good I it's fine and we 
kind of remove ourselves and we kind of 
take away our vulnerability so we won't 
get hurt so that's a huge one and going 
anything we do from a place of fear 
doesn't lead to good results right fear 
keeps you closed off fear keeps you to a 
certain extent comfortable you're not 
going to jump off your lily pad if 
you're afraid and if you don't have the 
courage when what are you gonna do 
the same thing again there's and this is 
what happens and this is why 
you know an easy stat to think about is 
the divorce rate 50 of first marriages 
end in divorce 67 percent of second 74 
of third ladies and gentlemen what you 
do from a place of fear is going to keep 
you closed off and doing the same thing 
over and over again so I love that your 
first 
thing that you see that's blocking 
people is fear I couldn't agree with you 
more and if this is resonating with you 
and if you're listening to this fact 
that fear and it's putting a pit in your 
stomach and you're like I'm scared 
to do this this is an alarm Bell for you 
that it's time to change something up do 
something that makes you mitigate that 
fear enlist a village of people hell it 
takes a village to find love okay all we 
do all day long I always say we're in 
your corner with you exhale you have us 
as you're on Earth guides holding your 
hands and you're saying the same thing 
in the spirit world 
absolutely and and I cannot tell you how 
many times I read for people and their 
guys are like you are not meant to live 
your life alone 
I'm meant to share it it's okay and and 
it feels so good when people hear that 
but then they immediately start to bump 
into their blocks and it's like I can't 
get there that sounds good that feels 
good but I I have more blocks and one of 
the other blocks that we bump into is 
what I call false agreements which is 
also kind of tied up with a trauma 
response so let me explain and you will 
love this example I'm already obsessed 
let's go let's go so I 
I read for someone and she kind of I 
opened to read for her and and it was 
like her energy it was like okay so you 
just got a divorce 
and she was like no and I'm like okay so 
what no you just got a divorce and she 
was like no and you know it's funny for 
me as a medium because I 100 trust 
spirit 100 right so I'm like 
am I like what's happening here I'm like 
you didn't just get a divorce and she 
said well I got a divorce 10 years ago 
and I was like oh 
because her divorce 
was literally the very first thing in 
her energy space 
wow and she had not let it go in fact 
all of the things that she believed 
about herself from that divorce 
we're completely conducting her life 
so meaning her husband at her ex-husband 
you know told her she wasn't funny or 
not lovable and you know all these 
negative agreements and so he would tell 
her them she would say okay she would 
agree to it she would sign an invisible 
contract she would seal it click the 
stamp and deliver it to the universe 
right and that's what she thought of 
herself now 
I'm not blaming her ex by the way right 
we all relationships are complicated but 
just reading for her 
that is really where she was she had all 
of these beliefs and false agreements 
about herself that she made with her ex 
and they were still there so the divorce 
was still there and what's amazing about 
that is when you let false agreements 
with someone run your life 
they become your Guru and your master 
so her ex-husband 
was running her life was her master 
because everything he said she agreed 
she kind of made this agreement and she 
was conducting her whole life by so her 
ex was her Guru still ten years later 
and guess what they didn't even speak 
anymore 
she didn't like him and he was 
completely dominating her life right so 
the idea for her was this block of these 
false beliefs about herself and this 
control that she was still completely 
under and you know what's amazing is she 
didn't even have to call him to set him 
free she did she wasn't going to get 
anything from him she had to set herself 
free and really start to build up who am 
I what do I believe and build her own 
life force and in that strength then 
kind of raise her vibration and go oh 
wait a minute and attract someone else 
that was in similar vibration so that 
she could move on in her life so these 
false agreements really being 
traumatized as well right we get like oh 
my God this was so bad I'm so scared I'm 
traumatized it's like a trauma response 
where we kind of keep everything at Bay 
because we're waiting for that rug to 
get pulled out from under us right same 
thing you know we're still living in the 
past and we don't even realize it wow so 
her energy her divorce was so 
predominant in her field when you were 
reading her and so it's 
it's because she was tacitly agreeing 
with these false agreements you're ugly 
you're too old you'll never find someone 
you're too damaged and she was like yup 
yup yup yup and so so it's identifying 
like dear listener do you have false 
agreements and maybe it was your ex 
maybe it was your mom maybe it was your 
dad to little you maybe it was a teacher 
maybe it was a coach that said something 
and that little seed planted a giant ass 
Oak Tree in your head and grew and the 
branches grew and you and you think you 
are that but here's what's Sinister 
right those people probably never meant 
that that one thing was captured in your 
head right and that's how humans are we 
have a negativity bias and we're gonna 
seize the one thing we're gonna plant 
that seed and it's gonna grow into a 
giant oak tree so I love what you're 
saying and is there a way 
that we can understand what our false 
Agreements are 
absolutely and I love what you're saying 
and I also to add on that it's like 
Society can also put us in false 
agreements as well when you said I'm too 
old or I'm too this it's like Society 
can put us those in those agreements as 
well when it comes to love yes it can be 
coming from anywhere right and I love 
that you also said you know people 
aren't Sinister it doesn't have to be so 
Extreme as the divorce that this woman 
had experienced you know sometimes we 
don't even realize that it's for you to 
empower yourself to break these 
agreements right so you want to identify 
you know your agreements and and there's 
many ways you can do that I mean I think 
what we're also talking about is really 
going in and examining your thoughts and 
your feelings and part of that you know 
bleeds into this idea of connecting with 
oneself and one's own inner voice 
um you know the best way to to really 
just start to work with agreements is to 
do a free flowing free-form 
consciousness of journaling right where 
you can just and make it simple it it's 
you know I think sometimes tools that we 
hear all around is very complicated it's 
like yes throw some salt in a circle 
with some this and some lavender sprigs 
and then dance and do a jump in an ice 
bath and I'm like oh my God it's too 
much just right get a pen and a piece of 
paper keep it simple at the top what are 
some negative ideas or thoughts I have 
about myself just start with that just 
write that and then just let it go what 
am I looking at here and then you know 
set a timer for four minutes 
four minutes on your phone and you'll 
know them 
oh oh I know mine mine art I feel 
delivered I got them in my back pocket 
I'm working through them you know do you 
see my backpack I carry them around with 
me yeah yeah like heavy Stones I have 
them in my back pocket that's why I have 
such a such a big booty right now you 
know what I mean I have them all in my 
pockets foreign 
oh my gosh we all carry these false 
agreements around and I joke it's like 
right we've got Erica's booty we've got 
I don't have a big booty I wish I did so 
I'm gonna say it's in my rucksack you 
know in my backpack but we all carry 
around these false agreements right and 
write them down right what are the 
things and you know what they are and we 
know what they are and other people ha 
might even know what they are for us 
right I know in our practice we do with 
our one-on-one clients that you know we 
work with for a year we do a 360 
feedback process where we have them 
reach out to their friends and family 
their Village telling us why they think 
our client is hasn't met the right 
partner wow and so what's so interesting 
about this is we think that these false 
agreements or the things that are 
holding us back are just our dirty 
little secrets in our backpacks in our 
booties guess what 
that everybody knows 100 everybody knows 
and they can tell you you know what she 
doesn't realize how beautiful she is she 
walks around with her eyes down she has 
no idea who's looking at her because her 
ex told her she wasn't pretty or she was 
bullied for being you know the ugly 
duckling and whatever that stuff is 
people know like we think nobody knows 
we know so get your notebook out write 
down your false agreements people let 
them stare at you you know I want to 
just finish that also for the awesome 
listeners here just because if this you 
know podcast you're hearing this and it 
stirs something up and you get your 
journal and you write them down and 
you're like oh my God you know wow you 
know right there's so many or even I 
just never consciously looked at these 
so let me give you a quick quick tool 
just what to do from here okay so number 
one you're gonna look at these 
agreements and you may feel all kinds of 
feelings number one it's okay 
everyone has these agreements please 
don't be mad at yourself 
number one on the docket I forgive 
myself I know I'm a spiritual being 
having this Human Experience to learn to 
grow to evolve these are things these 
are part of my AP courses remember AP 
courses in high school these are part of 
my Advanced courses right here on this 
paper are part of my Advanced courses to 
move my soul 
forward in this life and to forgive 
myself for these right not not be angry 
at myself because we're going to 
automatically look at the paper and go 
oh my God what's wrong with me and guess 
what there is nothing wrong with you and 
in fact if you get that pen and paper 
and you write these down there is 
everything right with you because you 
are of the 99 of people that are willing 
to grow and change so or one percent of 
people I should say that was backwards 
I'm saying we were following you I knew 
what you were trying to say girl I'm 
saying it is so rare you know people 
that listen to this podcast I know are 
looking to grow and to to shift and 
change but a lot of people aren't 
willing to do that and are very set in 
their way so just writing these things 
down you are already cooking with gas 
and you're doing a great job 
so after that I'm just going to give you 
a quick tool is that 
as you go forward in your days after 
that I want you to see your list and say 
I acknowledge you I hold space for you 
little friend little soul within you 
right and as you go about your days I 
just want you to acknowledge I don't 
want to say catch yourself because that 
sounds negative but acknowledge when 
those Agreements are coming up right so 
like you know maybe someone invites you 
to something and you're like uh I'm 
feeling so gross and I don't look very 
good so I'm not gonna go right so let's 
just use that as a silly example and you 
would go 
oh wait a minute that's a false 
agreement that I'm not good to look at 
or I'm yucky or I'm you know no good so 
what you can do is take a moment close 
your eyes take a deep breath 
and I want you to touch your hand to 
your head and you're going to say cancel 
and then I want you to touch your hand 
to your heart and you're going to say 
cancel 
and you are basically out loud saying 
cancel cancel I cancel that out right it 
seems Elementary and simple but your 
words your thoughts your intentions are 
so powerful so if you think of something 
negative about yourself go oh I I see 
her there she is there's that little one 
coming out to play and you're just gonna 
say I'm going to cancel it and I'm going 
to cancel it cancel in my head in my 
mind cancel it in my heart and my soul 
cancel cancel and then move on with your 
day 
yes keep working cancel cancel it is 
amazing it sounds ridiculous oh my God 
saying cancel cancel yes saying cancel 
cancel because think about this if 
you're continuously saying I'm 
unattractive I'm unattractive I'm 
unattractive does that affect you yep 
how to yeah yes so we'll cancel cancel 
affect you yep because you're 
acknowledging it you're taking control 
of it you're saying I I no longer accept 
that type of talk about myself I cancel 
it I cancel it try it it's amazing how 
much it works I love that so much this 
is amazing thank you for that I'm going 
to be canceled cancel canceling a lot of 
those things in my rucksack really soon 
so 
um God this is so amazing I feel like I 
could talk to you for eight hours but 
let's tell us you just gave us this 
amazing cancel cancel tool what about 
you talked about some tools that we can 
use when we need to check in 
with our gut feelings about somebody and 
let's maybe open this up into the dating 
world right so it could be the dating 
World maybe it's a new friend maybe it's 
just a new human what do we do when we 
think so when you're saying check in 
with your gut feelings like gut feelings 
like oh my God I think this person's 
awesome or oh my God this person is 
giving me the heebie-jeebies 
so a huge I love that question and a 
huge thing and I'm sure this is going to 
resonate with a lot of people right now 
is they go 
I have a feeling and a thought about 
something is that my anxiety or is that 
my intuition 
is that my false agreement saying I'm 
never going to meet anyone or is that my 
intuition we have conflict within 
ourselves it happens to me it happens to 
us all we're kind of like oh that didn't 
feel right and then we're like wait is 
it because I'm afraid or is that real 
right so first and foremost you know and 
think about this guys how much you can 
look back and you're always like oh damn 
I knew that that person was not for me 
right dynside is always 20 20. but 
somewhere along the line you felt it you 
knew it right so the idea is to get 
familiar with what is fear and what is 
intuition right so look back on those 
situations and really kind of picture 
you know when did I get that red flag 
and the way that you received that red 
flag that's your intuitive voice 
okay so practice kind of thinking about 
gosh when did that happen I recently had 
this happen to me I got a big red flag 
about something and I'm like no no 
that's cool it's cool it's cool and it 
wasn't cool 
um and so now I you know once again I'm 
reminded what that inner voice sounds 
like right 
so what the best thing to do when you 
want to connect with your gut and your 
intuition is practice it not in the 
moments so let me explain you would um 
and I'm going to tell you some quick 
steps so the idea that you would do is 
you're going to set an alarm I'm going 
to tell you this is for beginners right 
or Advanced if you want some you know 
brushing up 
you're going to set an alarm on your 
phone 
for one time a day 
you choose is it 8 PM is it 8 A.M do you 
wake up for work at you know seven and 
it's you actually set it for you know 6 
55 or whatever you're gonna set an alarm 
on your phone for five minutes you're 
gonna go to a safe separate place in 
your home 
or your apartment you're going to sit 
down either on the floor on the floor is 
preferable so you sit up tall you're 
going to set an alarm on your phone I'm 
going to do five minutes for you guys 
okay and you're gonna close your eyes 
and you're gonna breathe 
and when you're breathing I want you to 
picture you have in your hand a flower 
and a candle 
and I want you to smell the flower 
in through the nose and then I want you 
to blow out the candle 
out through the mouth and the reason why 
I give you the flour in your candle is 
because a lot of people are going 
meditation she's telling us to meditate 
get out of here lady so use a visual 
like a flower and a candle and work with 
cooling down your mind and knowing what 
that feels like because when you're 
confronted in a moment with something 
and you're like is that my gut is that 
my anxiety is that what is that is that 
my intuition 
you begin to create a space within you 
that you're more familiar with if you're 
familiar with closing your eyes taking a 
deep breath and touching in 
when there's something that's happening 
and you can go let me take a deep breath 
going in 
okay yeah this does feel weird if your 
let me touch in is Juicy because you've 
been working the let me touch in muscle 
you know five minutes a day you're 
already cooking with gas so what happens 
is we go to go within and it's kind of 
confusing in there 
so you want to start to create this 
really good and really active connection 
with what does it feel like when I just 
take a breath and go inside 
it's kind of like when you go and visit 
a place and people are like you know 
tell me all about this place and you're 
like I haven't been there in a long time 
you know they're asking you questions 
about it you're like I don't really know 
I haven't been there in a while 
so you know getting confronted with a 
question it's like uh what does your gut 
tell you it's like I don't know I 
haven't really checked in there for a 
while 
so take a few minutes a day breathe 
and just think about a flower and a 
candle and you will start to get juicy 
with this inner place 
the other idea you can do is start to 
create a place within you that's a safe 
place I call it my safe house create a 
happy place vision for yourself that you 
can go to I did this work with someone 
last week I said what's your happy place 
and she had a porch swing as her happy 
place that was it it was important in 
her mind 
she created this quartz swing it 
overlooked a lake and she created this 
happy place and now when she's feeling 
stressed anxious or doesn't know what 
she feels she closes her eyes she does 
her breath and then she sits on her 
porch swing and there she can connect 
with herself right so start to create a 
happy space as you begin to work this 
breath and this five minutes a day it 
sounds so ridiculous but it's amazing 
and it works it is and I love what 
you're saying because 
it's our thoughts that work us up so 
much 
and it's anxious thoughts lead to 
anxious feelings so what you're teaching 
us to do to reconnect with our intuition 
is to quiet our minds 
inhale smell the flower exhale blow out 
the candle right quiet the thoughts get 
to a still place then you can hear and 
you can make certain that it's intuition 
not anxiety intuition not your crappy 
false agreement 
you nailed it and like what I love too 
is like you know sometimes the idea of 
meditation or quieting the mind it can 
feel so overwhelming so don't meditate 
just smell a flower blow out the candle 
don't meditate create a happy place in 
your mind that you can go hang out at 
for a minute it doesn't have to be for 
three hours a day just a minute you're 
in a stressful situation let's just use 
work say you're at work in a stressful 
situation 
step away for a sec take a deep breath 
and visualize your happy place go there 
and you will calm your kind of your 
whole system down in order for you to 
see the truth and I love doing that with 
dating because you begin to become 
strength and stronger and more clear 
from within and then you can really see 
and kind of illuminate the person that's 
really right for you it's so amazing 
that you're saying that I couldn't agree 
more I know you know a couple of weeks 
ago we did I did a podcast episode about 
you know the anxiety that I was feeling 
in my own life and the four sentence 
meditation that really changed 
everything for me in five days and it's 
the kindness compassion meditation where 
you picture the person who's giving you 
anxiety or fear or that you're in 
conflict with and again it's just being 
quiet with yourself and hell when you 
think when you start to get into it you 
can do it while you're walking down the 
street when that pit gets into your 
stomach and this is maybe a person that 
you have a false agreement with and you 
wish them four things to calm yourself 
ultimately may you be happy may you be 
healthy may you live with ease and what 
is it may you be safe 
um that's nice the person and this is 
for people that are giving you anxiety 
and what I also said is you can do that 
for yourself may I be happy may I be 
healthy may I be safe may I live with 
these what would help me to do that and 
so much of the success in life in dating 
in love in every way and this is what 
this beautiful spiritual medium Erica is 
telling us it starts with us 
it starts inside of us and isn't that 
incredibly empowering you guys I talk 
about you have the steering wheel of 
your life and here Eric is telling you 
the same thing you have the steering 
wheel to cut the Clutter to cut the BS 
to cut the things that people have told 
you these false agreements and to suck 
quiet your mind you were blessed with 
great intuition 
get rid of the monkey chatter and the 
monkeys that hop around in your brain 
Lindsay and I called them monkey Minds 
right the monkeys go 
and they jump around quiet that 
breathe in smell your flower I love this 
visual area is it good blow your candle 
out do the kindness compassionate 
meditation do whatever it is but bring 
yourself back to Center 
I I could not agree more I think that is 
so beautiful I love the meditation you 
shared because it dispels the anxiety 
right you get back to what is and what's 
real right true kindness compassion 
connection we're all in this together 
right so it kind of helps eliminate that 
and you know what's so amazing too about 
thinking about anxiety and what you're 
talking about is like you know anxiety 
is emotionally rehearsing for the very 
thing we don't want to have happen 
yeah have you ever done that you're just 
like oh my God I'm going into this 
meeting it's gonna be terrible they're 
all mad at me uh this is gonna be a show 
I don't know if I can curse on here yeah 
I'm sorry absolutely 
I should have asked you you know I have 
I curse like crazy I should have asked 
you beforehand um so I've kept it under 
wraps you know uh but but you know the 
anxiety we're just playing out a 
terrible situation A worrisome situation 
that hasn't even happened yet so the 
idea of getting yourself in the moment 
right now is what will help alleviate 
some of the anxiety and you may even be 
doing that going on a date are they 
gonna like me this isn't gonna go well 
all the past ones have been terrible we 
play out the very thing we don't want to 
have happen and so when you're doing 
that get in the moment Get Right Here 
Right Now into what is and what's real 
I love that I love that so much and 
tell us 
we all talk a lot about manifesting and 
your spiritual medium right and this is 
like oh let's manifest let you know and 
we we talk to all of our clients we 
who's your dream guy or who's your dream 
woman so tell us about 
you have a best tip for manifesting 
someone yeah what is that so wait really 
quick when you say who's your best man 
who's your best woman do they always say 
like a celebrity type person 
so we start out one of the 
transformative exercises that we do with 
our clients to help them really get to 
you know we call them elevator people 
like who because they elevate you yes 
who's a partner that you need versus 
what you want and so we ask them in free 
form describe your dream person in all 
of his or her glory and I have heard 
things like well you know I would like 
you know 
the Marlboro Man meets George Clooney 
like you know and like super visuals so 
to Bollywood film stars to do you name 
it well that's what I was gonna ask you 
like who's hot right now like are people 
saying Brad Pitt or is Channing Tatum 
the one like you know who's hot right 
now anyway I'm just oh my gosh curiosity 
but right who'd make your list who's the 
number one person if I'm like who's your 
celebrity crush me yes oh my gosh 
oh I have a couple but it's ever 
changing I really but also here's what's 
here's what's funny about celebrity 
crush with me is that I'll be like oh my 
gosh that guy is is so hot and then I'm 
like he's like 25 years old this is like 
creepy you know what I mean so all these 
celebrities are so young so I gotta like 
give me a minute let me I'll have to 
marinate on the older on the 
age-appropriate ones no you don't 
because it's this is what I tell my 
clients okay this is your dream person 
like I can say Theo James from White 
Lotus and Divergence and you'll probably 
be my son but can we just discuss I I 
like the guy and I'm forgetting his name 
this is the one that I think is the 
cutest guy on the planet right now he's 
like in all the the Rocky movies but the 
new Rocky movies oh Michael B Jordan oh 
my God is there a more beautiful man 
like I just think he's I think he's so 
hot so but like how he's like probably 
20 years younger than me like that's 
okay well I I think he's gorgeous and I 
love his Vibe so that would be my 
celebrity crush if I had to choose oh my 
gosh I love that yeah yeah um so if you 
know him you know no I'm just kidding if 
you know him help me manifest my way to 
him but right exactly the problem is I 
am extremely happily married so 
so now let's pretend yes 
you weren't what was your what is your 
best way and you can be married I'm 
kidding but yes our listeners you know 
who are single like what is their best 
tip for manifesting someone and for 
listeners who are happily coupled you 
can manifest different things in your 
life so listen into this one so so let 
me explain 
um in terms of manifesting there's you 
know we all know a lot of the steps so 
I'm not going to go over everything you 
know you kind of you can create a board 
I think there's two main components that 
are missing number one you have to put 
action into your manifestation right so 
you cannot just 
write yourself a million dollar check 
and you know sit on your couch and watch 
TV you have to put everything into 
action number one way I recommend doing 
that 
is writing on a piece of paper the 
alphabet down one end a b c d e f g like 
this all the way down 
you are putting at the top what you're 
manifesting and then the A through Z is 
going to be one thing on each line 
that you can actively do to show up for 
your vision okay so I'll give you an 
example 
um like you said someone that wasn't 
even in dating right say they're 
listening for different reasons I uh 
want to be a nurse and they're really 
want to be a nurse right but they're 
just they don't they're just hanging out 
it's like write your A through Z it 
would be looking at schools number one 
you know a b what are my prerequisites 
see what are the schools I like write 
down what do you need to do to create 
action right same thing you're 
manifesting I want the great love of my 
life you know what I mean a through z 
number one and number a excuse me or 
letter A call Bella you know get on our 
list yes right God's sakes number two 
find my agreement so I can move on 
number three start journaling number 
four do things I love right again use 
the alphabet you can use numbers but 
write down what you're gonna do about it 
and show up for that thing every single 
all day and I hope that makes sense I 
love that so it's not just 
manifesting and putting it on your board 
and then you know going you know 
watching Netflix eight hours a day and 
saying no to all these invitations that 
come your way because of your false 
agreements it is if I want to become a 
nurse if I want to find the lid to my 
pot what are 26 things that I can do A 
to Z on the left side of the paper that 
are going to move me in action towards 
getting what I want right be about it be 
about it be about it and you're showing 
you're creating momentum you know the 
universe just can see what you're doing 
right so it's not uh the universe is not 
manipulative and it's not like gray area 
right so you wake up you're about it 
you're doing everything you're 
manifesting your vision you're doing 
your actions it's like whoa universe is 
like yeah baby it's it you're in 
momentum 
so that would that's a huge component 
that I think people miss and then I love 
that necking component 
is feeling good about the thing you want 
feeling good 
so meaning sometimes what happens is 
we're manifesting a soul mate 
and every time we think of the soul mate 
we go 
but I don't know if this is going to 
happen and oh God I want it so bad but I 
I I don't know and we actually feel bad 
about the thing that we want 
and we actually start to squeeze this 
because we're like I'm in such lack I'm 
in Lac I'm in lack I'm a lack and it 
just I want it so bad but I it doesn't 
feel good and we actually shut the very 
thing we want out we don't even feel 
good about the thing we want because we 
go back to 
we go back to fear and we start it 
starts to backfire on us backfire it's 
like oh my God we say we want these 
things but we feel terrible about it 
right so my number one thing to do is 
create a vision in your mind that you 
can connect with that feels really 
freaking good and every time you think 
about the thing you're manifesting you 
go to that vision and that feeling so 
let me give you an example 
you close your eyes 
say this is for a man or a woman I'm a 
woman so I'm going to use woman you 
close your eyes you take some deep 
breaths right you do your smell smell 
the flower you blow out your candle you 
go to your happy place 
and you're manifesting a partner say 
it's a man and you imagine someone walk 
towards you you maybe don't even see 
their face and you just go in and they 
put their arms around you and you put 
your arms around them and you just give 
each other this Epic 
Soul healing soul-quenching hug and it 
just feels so good and they smell good 
and you're hugging them they have the 
build of someone you like albeit tall 
short you know whatever you like and it 
just feels so good and you know that's 
your person and then you hold that 
vision and it feels so good it feels so 
good to feel good about your vision and 
then you go yes thank you and then you 
say thank you and you leave your vision 
and you leave your happy place and you 
go on with your day so now when you 
think of your soul mate you go oh wait 
I'm not going to go into that fear-based 
I'm not gonna let it backfire let me go 
back to my vision I'm gonna close my 
eyes oh yes that good hug awesome and 
then put that in the universe then hit 
your A through Z and keep moving towards 
it 
and that you have to feel good about the 
thing that you're that you're 
manifesting because the universe again 
is very black and white do you feel good 
or do you feel bad oh you feel bad okay 
let's not go there 
right and so if you I love that so much 
and now if it's back to being a nurse 
then your vision could be you're sitting 
next to a patient with their hand on 
your hand on this patient's head and 
you're giving them comfort and they're 
looking at you with the smiles saying 
what would I do without you 
yeah and that's it and just leave it 
there because what's going to happen is 
your mind is going to go but when am I 
going to be a nurse but how is that 
going to be but I don't have the money 
to be a nurse I don't have the time 
don't worry about that just make sure 
you're clear with your vision and it 
feels good and whenever it backfires say 
that's all for now and back out of the 
vision don't let it backfire on you it 
doesn't mean you're not being in reality 
it doesn't mean you're not doing your A 
through Z but it means the vision feels 
good to you 
it means the vision feels good and I'm 
going to add one thing on there yeah 
please what I don't want any of you to 
do is I want you to know that whatever 
you want in life requires action like 
Eric is saying and it requires time 
right and sometimes you know it's like 
if I want to lose 10 pounds then you 
know day one that I eat really well and 
work out I'm like well why isn't the 10 
pounds off the scale right and I know 
you guys will all feel me on this one 
right we want instant gratification and 
you might be manifesting this for a day 
a week a month a year a decade it's okay 
it is okay I want you to know that we 
don't know when the universe is going to 
deliver the lid to your pot but if you 
continue to do the things and be patient 
and go back and get rid of your false 
agreements and imagine your good vision 
and take action and you know do the 
things maybe you need a dating coach 
maybe you need a course whatever it is 
that's what you need to do so really 
think about guys what it is I mean this 
episode couldn't be more freaking 
inspiring we're telling you the power 
exists in you and all you can control in 
this lifetime is you right you can't 
control if someone else likes you or 
doesn't like you and if they don't to 
hell with them you dodged a cannonball 
because remember it's Smart dating 
Academy we want you to be with someone 
who likes you just a little bit more 
than you like them and if they said no 
to a second date or a fifth date well F 
them we're done because they didn't meet 
our 5149 rule so this is going to take a 
minute or a long time so please be 
patient just because you imagine this 
big warm hug like Erica said and he 
doesn't appear tomorrow it doesn't mean 
oh it didn't work come on 
we call that in the spirit world Divine 
timing 
and we don't know when that's going to 
be no no and it's so funny I love this 
joke do you want to make God laugh 
tell it tell tell it your plans right 
it's like there is such a thing as 
Divine timing and you showing up and 
believing is just a beautiful 
affirmation of that and really just 
staying on your own your same team 
believing believing in your vision and 
keep moving forward with joy and that's 
why we talked about feeling good because 
it feels so good to feel good right 100 
well Erica tell us for a second if 
people want to know more about you 
um tell us where we can follow you thank 
you so much so yeah well first and 
foremost you can always follow me on 
Instagram which is spiritual medium 
Erica with a k 
um and I do all kinds of fun things on 
there so I'd love for you to join me you 
can go to Erica gabriel.com and know 
that is not a stage name I promise that 
is your reaction that is my real name is 
Gabriel e-r-i-k-a-g-a-b-r-i-e-l.com 
and you can hit that if you want to 
request a one-on-one reading and also 
that's where you can see the courses 
that I offer right so my course that 
just launched now is called the way the 
way and it is Spirit showing you the way 
to getting all the things that you want 
including finding your purpose finding 
your soul mate whatever it is that 
you're walking towards 
it is of course about identifying blocks 
and receiving tools to help you move 
through them so that you can get to 
where you want to go and you can use the 
tools for the rest of your life so you 
can see that on there and that's how you 
can hang with me I love that Erica thank 
you 
so much for being here and for sharing 
your gems I am inspired by you and I 
know we're gonna have you back again on 
the show so thank you and for those of 
you who are ready to make some changes 
do something okay do something we've 
given you a hell of a lot of tools today 
you've got this so in psychotic optimism 
and psychotic love I embrace you in that 
warm hug and I'm always here for you and 
I wish you the most amazing Week full of 
action towards finding the lid to your 
pot 


there's something unlovable about me 
there is something about me that means 
that men find me really attractive and 
then they find a reason to not want a 
relationship or to mistreat me and I 
experienced a bit of an I guess what you 
call it an Awakening PR to start in 
baggage reclaim where I talked out loud 
about these feelings I was having about 
myself and my relationship and found 
that I was inundated people were like 
you are talking about me you're talking 
about my life my experiences and I was 
like oh wow that's weird because I was 
thought I was a weirdo uh and it turns 
out there are a lot of us that struggle 
with feelings of Abandonment who have a 
pattern of being involved with emoly 
unavailable people and who on some level 
spend their lives people pleasing I got 
so much out of talking about my 
experiences online and connecting with 
people that I wanted to help at least 
one person avoid what I had been through 
or to help them navigate out of it and 
here I am all these years later and 
clearly I've helped more than a couple 
of people 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
I'm so excited that you've decided to 
join us for another episode of the Smart 
dating Academy podcast I'm feeling super 
in my glow today and I hope that you are 
too and if you're not today's episode is 
going to be perfect for you because I 
brought my friend Angela gim on here who 
is the Visionary behind Sav Beauty and 
Angela and I are going to talk all about 
your glow right and everybody wants to 
have better skin if you're dude 
listening if you're a woman listening it 
doesn't matter what age we're all 
talking about a more youthful glowy dewy 
look yes you guys too and so we're going 
to talk about the glow from the inside 
and the glow from the outside so Angela 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast thank you so much Bella for 
having me it's such a pleasure oh my 
gosh well tell us about like tell me 
your journey to becoming an entrepreneur 
let's just hop right in okay well I was 
a concert pianist in a former life and 
um while on tour I was about to walk out 
on stage um in front of hundreds of 
people put on this quote natural lotion 
all over my body and started breaking 
out from it um during the concert and it 
was very humiliating so when I got back 
to the hotel room I took a look at the 
list of ingredients and was shocked to 
find how many um chemical fillers were 
in this quote natural 
lotion and um I don't know back then 
there weren't that this is over a decade 
ago Bella so there weren't a lot of 
natural clean skincare brands on the 
market and I want wanted something that 
was organic natural but it had to be it 
had to work um I my parent my mom is 
Korean and you know Korean women are 
obsessed with their skin care so 
obsessed obsessed yes and so I just 
wanted to create something that my mom 
would want to use that I would want to 
use I'm a New Yorker as we discussed 
earlier so it needed to be it needed to 
work in a New York minute and make you 
look like Flawless and this beautiful 
skin because I think skincare is 
self-care so that's really that was the 
beginning of my journey it literally 
started with an itch on stage oh my gosh 
and this was only so you were I mean 
this was 10 years ago and you put this 
lotion on that someone gave you you're 
like I don't want to look chalky or 
flaky I know I have those moments before 
I do media segments I'm suddenly like oh 
my God look at my knees and I'll take 
whatever's around and slap it on me so 
you did one of those and you just 
started to break out and you had never 
had issues well it no I've had I've I 
have very sensitive skin so okay um it's 
been a lifelong journey to find skin 
care and body care that makes you glow 
as you were saying earlier but without 
all of the chemical fillers or 
preservatives that were making me break 
out so um and actually it was it was 
well over a decade ago my daughter I 
remember remember it was around the time 
that my daughter was born that I started 
playing with lotions and potions in my 
kitchen she's now 14 she's a teenager 
now so oh my gosh yeah so that was 
really the beginning that's amazing and 
so is she using your skin care as well 
she is I think there are a lot of teens 
that use sa Beauty you know we have sa 
beauty is a natural skincare brand 
inspired by Korean beauty rituals um 
it's made here in New York and we have 
two spas in Manhattan one in Bangkok 
Thailand and um we a lot of our guests 
are teenagers believe it or not and men 
like we're seeing an increase in teens 
and Men come through the doors and both 
segments are becoming increasingly more 
interested in skincare and my daughter 
in particular what I'm seeing is her age 
group you know they're breaking out 
because maybe they're not taking care of 
their skin so we teach them how to wash 
their face 
at night um how to use peels gentle 
peels so that they are exfoliating their 
skin without um you know harming it at 
this early stage so there's a lot of 
education and and then for the men that 
are walking in they're you know they're 
very interested in how do I take care of 
my skin now um a lot of their questions 
is do I come in to get a 
facial after I shave before I shave you 
know so there it's it's very cute these 
two unexpected groups of people coming 
in now I'm so I'm I love that I and I 
think you're right I think as a society 
we're thinking more about longevity and 
we're living longer and kids are 
thinking about things earlier because 
they're they're influenced and 
surrounded by social media all day long 
so how much do you think 
um genetics play a role in this right 
like okay I you can look at your mom or 
your grandma yes like how much can good 
practice alter your 
genetics I think it is key to having a 
healthy glow I think you can do so much 
to counter genetics um meaning that 
let's say you're just you just have oil 
skin that breaks out and this is what 
your mom or your dad had and this is 
what runs in your family I there's so 
many things that influence your skin it 
can be 
environmental it can be um what you're 
eating in fact a lot of it comes from 
what you're eating we find a lot of 
people that are lactose intolerant or if 
they're eating too much sugar it shows 
up on their skin um I really believe 
that what how what you're going through 
in life also shows up on your on your 
face yes yes so stressors can exacerbate 
rosacea breakouts dry 
skin um so all of these things 
contribute 
tremendously you're so right and so I 
know most people listening probably 
including myself haven't had the 
opportunity to try your products now 
with that being said can you also and 
I'm sure we'll all want to by the end of 
this episode but can you tell us some 
things that you know while we're 
listening to this what are some things 
that we can do to improve our glow today 
whether that's the inside whether that's 
the outside so many of our listeners are 
single right and they're thinking about 
relationships and they want to feel 
better while they're dating or maybe 
they're in a relationship but they want 
to make sure that their relationship has 
that glow so talk to us about this I 
love that uh your question is very rich 
and there's a lot to tackle there so 
let's start with a philosophy that I 
think is very important um I think 
waking up with a glow is so essential to 
how you carry yourself through the day 
how and now we're since we're talking 
about living a single life attracting if 
you're interested in that attracting 
love into your life it starts with 
self-love right talk yeah so I think 
skinc care is your best accessory I mean 
I don't wear makeup I don't wear a lot 
of um Foundation I like for my skin to 
just glow because it really represents 
to me and I and I told you that sa 
beauty is all about um Korean beauty 
rituals and Korean women as early as ad. 
uh 9918 ad they were putting on they 
were taking care of their skin Radiance 
with things like safflower apricot peach 
oils um it was this um this philosophy 
that your inside is reflected on your 
outside so that's the foundation of 
savor Beauty and I think there are some 
beautiful rituals that I'd love to teach 
you on how you can take care of your 
skin from the inside out so one of them 
and this is a beautiful place to start 
is to wash your face at night and people 
often say well why do I need to wash my 
face at night why is is so important 
because how many of us sometimes get 
into bed and we're so dead tired and we 
just don't want to wash our face well 
something I'd like to encourage you to 
do if you're not going to go out at 
night and you're in and it's around 5 o' 
you're about to cook yourself dinner 
wash your F face at 5 o'clock okay and 
um this is a beautiful tip because 
you're not tired and you will take the 
extra step to take care of yourself to 
me washing your face is symbolic 
for um removing the toxins from your 
pores and your mental psyche right your 
soul so there's this beautiful Korean 
beauty ritual of double cleansing you 
start with an oil cleanser and you layer 
on top um you know and saber Beauty we 
have this Jasmine cleanser um oil 
cleansing oil and then there's the uh 
Pearl cleansing cream that you layer on 
top so the reason why I love starting 
with an oil cleanser is because the 
coconut and the Jasmine it pulls out the 
bad oil from your pores and then and it 
smells like a tropical getaway I love it 
it just the scent the aroma just takes 
you away for one second and then I love 
to um layer on top the Pearl cleansing 
cream which has these grape seeds 
exfoliators that just sweep away all of 
the dirt and debris that you've just 
pulled out of your pores and it's it's a 
beautiful way to just soften your skin 
and to get rid of all the toxins and 
once you do that you are more glowing 
and because if you go to bed with all of 
this makeup and dirt and debris in your 
pore you're sweat and sebum are having a 
party in your pores it breaks down your 
collagen with M which makes your skin 
age faster it makes you break out so you 
just want to clean all of that if you 
want to change your skin cleanse your 
pores and for those of us that might not 
have these products on hand is it okay 
to you know wash your face with the soap 
that you have or a standard cleanser 
like what would you say to someone who's 
like okay I want to start I'm gonna take 
baby steps so I love that question you 
can start anywhere with what you have I 
often think that life is sometimes you 
choose from the lesser of two evils so 
so I'd rather you wash your face than 
not then not exactly not now if you want 
to upgrade or elevate your life and your 
experience you can get you can I mean 
there are a lot of beauty products on 
the on the internet that you can choose 
from you know obviously sa be I use sa 
Beauty because I'm the founder um but I 
love it because we choose each 
ingredient for specific purpose so um 
you know Jasmine and coconut uh coconut 
the ingredients it's great for 
antibacterial purposes um coconut has 
lorc acid which for me softens the skin 
and it just breaks down like all of the 
dirt and debris so after I use it it 
just number one smells amazing but also 
I just feel like my skin is Velvet soft 
I love having very soft skin and I and I 
work for that you know so I like that 
product and then what I mentioned 
earlier um the Pearl cleansing cream I 
love that has crushed grape seeds to 
sweep away um all of that dirt and 
debris you can find any product and I'd 
rather for you to wash your face than 
not oh my gosh totally okay asking for a 
friend does using a makeup wipe count as 
washing your face yes okay asking for a 
friend named 
Bella yes and I think especially if 
you're on you know in Flight that's a 
great way to wash your face um you know 
I prefer to have a more eco-friendly way 
to do it and I like I like for women and 
men and teens to take the time to really 
enjoy it as a sensorial 
journey because if you're you're going 
to wash your face anyway you may as well 
use it as a moment to ground yourself be 
present and so sometimes I think a 
makeup wipe is not the best way to do 
that but I again lesser of two evils I 
agree I agree with you 100% there are 
days where one makeup wipe if I've been 
doing Media stuff doesn't take off all 
of the things and then I'll use a 
cleanser on my face and there's 
something really cathartic about the 
water on your face it's like it feels 
like a higher level more natural cleaner 
way I know the days where I do that I'm 
like H why don't I do this more often 
with cold water on my face or even just 
lukewarm and it feels so good so I 
couldn't agree with you more I I'm going 
to get away from just a makeup wipe so 
you can all keep me accountable on 
that that's awesome okay so we should 
wash our face at night to start and 
whatever that means before bed even at 
5:00 p.m. just as you're winding down 
your day wash your face okay what would 
come next so I think one thing that's 
super important for inside out glow is 
to drink your 
water um a lot of people don't I I keep 
by my desk um a glass of water at all 
times because you need to stay hydrated 
and then of course moisturizing your 
face so um I like to mist my face uh all 
saber beauty products are numbered so 
it's like one two 3 four five so you 
takes the guess work out so you missed 
step number two would be to miss 
yes and the reason why it's important to 
mist your face and with a toner 
non-alcohol toner is because it preps 
your skin for um penetration of your 
serums and moisturizers five to seven 
times deeper so I like that as well 
after washing my face I like to um mist 
my face with a toner because it also 
balances is your skin and you want that 
perfect balanced skin because it helps 
you to not get too dry and not to break 
out so you want to keep your skin be pH 
balance happy right then I like to put 
on step number three is the serum and we 
have three serums that you can choose 
from um you can choose from carrot Rose 
which has natural retinol we have 
pumpkin serum which is has zinc so it 
helps with 
hyperpigmentation and then we also have 
um the red raspberry which is very 
nourishing for drier skin so I like to 
massage that on my skin at night time 
and in the morning actually and in the 
afternoon and I think it just having 
that glow especially um helps with 
moisture but it also gives you like for 
example on the Go On The Go Glow like if 
you have a zoom meeting like you and I 
have you've got that just Natural Glow 
um I like to call it the glistening 
glow and then um I like to moist the 
step number four is I like to moisturize 
my face with uh the Truffle face cream 
that we have it's rich in vitamin B so 
it restores your Skin's 
luminosity and then you can finish with 
step number five which is the we have an 
eye cream caviar eye cream or 
pomegranate Eye Serum so that helps with 
the puffiness the dark circles and the 
fine lines that a lot of people have 
issue 
with okay tell me about the difference 
between a cream and a serum and who 
should think about 
what so I thank you again you asked such 
excellent questions that I just assume 
people know the answers to so the way I 
like to think about it and this is a 
Korean beauty philosophy is you want to 
layer your skin care the same way you 
layer your winter clothes so I know 
you're in Chicago you're going to layer 
going from thinnest to thickest you're 
not putting on your coat first and then 
you're long underwe wear you're going to 
put on the long underwear first and then 
the coat right or long underwear sweater 
and coat right so that's the same thing 
with um the philosophy of skin care so 
the toner is the first layer because 
it's the 
thinnest then you put on the spr on yeah 
that's the spray or a toning or or toner 
make sure you choose non-alcoholic 
because non-alcoholic non-alcohol toners 
because you don't want to dry out your 
skin unnecessarily a Serum is 
then less thick than a cream right so 
you're going to put on serum on next 
which is why we label it number three in 
the saber Beauty system and I love 
serums because the serums just give you 
extra layer of concentrated nourishment 
much like a vitamin for your skin so you 
might choose a vitamin C serum like our 
pumpkin serum has a lot of vitamin C um 
which gives your skin um also zinc for 
hyperpigmentation if you're concerned 
about brown spots or you might find a 
serum that has vitamin E for soothing 
nourishment so or for example you might 
find a serum that's concentrated with 
vitamin A like our carrot Rose serum for 
natural retinol which is which gives 
your skin cellular turnover then you put 
on your moisturization because it's a 
little thicker got it what a mo what a 
good face cream will do it will lock in 
moisture for the rest of the 
day got it so you should do a serum and 
then cream after so you can do an eye 
serum and an eye cream yes yeah an eye 
cream is usually you want a thinner eye 
cream because the the skin around your 
eyes is a lot thinner than anywhere else 
on your face so you just want a lighter 
fluffier eye cream which is why we whip 
our caviar eye cream so it's just 
lighter and then the way you put on eye 
cream properly is to dot it around your 
eyes with your using your ring finger 
and then I like to play the piano around 
my eyes like this concert Pi just to 
yeah just so that you're not a lot of 
people will put on their eye cream and 
drag it on and not be delicate so the 
piano lessons that your parents gave you 
you just put it on like this I love that 
and it feels so good too to do that I'm 
doing it here in case you're now we you 
know you can watch this podcast on 
YouTube or listen to it on all of your 
platforms so I was just piano my face it 
feels kind of good yes it gives you 
circulation yes I love that it's kind of 
calming okay this is great and this is 
and again this is B this is the Korean 
formula so in general Korean skin care 
uses these steps and for men and for 
women so there's nothing you would 
recommend differently for my husband 
Andy who is Caucasian right and because 
of that he's like I'm getting wrinkles 
when he like here and here and so he's 
getting more like oh my God right should 
I could do Botox I'm like I don't know 
if you should so well I think I think 
that that's why and I had said this 
earlier to you we have a lot more men 
coming into the spot something that men 
love is that the the skin care line is 
numbered 1 two 3 four five so if you 
were to tell Andy um use the serum he 
will probably tell you what number is 
that that's how guys think right so my 
partner he loves or I should say my 
fiance now oh congratulations thank you 
he loves the saber Beauty line because 
it's numbered so if I ever say hey I 
think you need some carrot Rose serum 
because your skin is looking a little 
bit dull he'll say what is that just 
tell me what number that is um so I 
think that's why a lot of men may be 
attracted to coming in for spas and to 
our line because numbered system takes 
the guess work out and that's what we 
did the saver the Korean beauty rituals 
are very daunting for a lot of people I 
know a lot of people are intrigued and 
very attracted to the Korean beauty um 
industry but it's overwhelming I think 
the New York Times called it the over 
whelming multi-step line which is why we 
sort of made it for the American woman 
and numbered everything and simplified 
everything so that it takes a guesswork 
out I love that Angela because I can 
walk into Sephora right or blue Mercury 
or whatever is in my neighborhood and 
it's so daunting because there's a 
thousand different products and that's 
why they're like well you should use 
this serum or this creamer this Ral I'm 
like oh my God overwhelmed walk out and 
I'm going to use my makeup wipe today so 
this is literally so I'm very much a 
skin care virgin very much a newbie so I 
love the fact that you have things are 
like one two 3 four five I must think 
more like a guy like show me exactly 
what to do and and I love that you're 
doing this for men as well and are your 
products unisex like could we use the 
same products for example absolutely 
yeah um I will give my partner a facial 
sometimes at night and I use all the 
same products they love the scent um 
it's a sensorial experience and um you 
know the reason why Bella I we numbered 
everything is because when I when I was 
working at the spa you know when we 
first uh took when we first launched 
people would come in and say Angela when 
do I put on my serum when do I put on my 
cream so I would take a big black 
Sharpie and I would just number it okay 
you you cleanse your face first one and 
then then you're going to do the toner 
two and then you I want you to put on 
the serum three and then I'd like for 
you to do the cream four and actually 
it's very interesting because we came 
out with our hyaluronic acid serum which 
is hyaluronic acid if you don't know it 
helps to boost moisture in your skin and 
hold it in and I remember my part my 
partner at the time fiance now he was 
like well when do I put this on and I 
would say well right before three he's 
like can you number it 2.5 please 
so now we have one 
2.5 no sorry one two 2.5 
three I love that your partner and I 
need to like have the same regime it 
sounds like would you please put a 
decimal on this um well you and yeah you 
my fiance and Andy need to do that it's 
it's just I think it really helps people 
to keep it organized people tell us that 
they love to see at one two 3 4 five in 
their in their beauty 
pantry I love that because we hear again 
newbie what is the difference between 
hyaluronic acid and retinol like what do 
we need to be thinking about like if I 
need X tell me about this because I know 
even for someone like me people are like 
you don't do all this stuff I'm like I 
don't I would love to become more 
educated around it but I just never had 
the time and so here you are to help 
educate me as well as our listeners so 
what should we need to do 
what should we do for staying youthful 
and glowy do we need to do both of those 
things well okay so I like to do 
everything and I take it very seriously 
because I believe that skin care is a 
marathon not a Sprint and I think as we 
gain wisdom years as I like to say um 
it's like waking up with great skin is 
just it makes you feel beautiful you 
know and confident I think when you have 
really good skin you feel very confident 
and the fact that you know I don't need 
to use a lot of foundation I just it's 
it's very symbolic for not needing to 
hide it just this is who I am this is 
what my skin looks like I feel good in 
the Skin I'm In you know it's very it's 
a very spiritual slash inner outer 
Radiance attitude right um so so you 
asked what's the difference between 
hyaluronic acid and retinol and I'd love 
to explain it because I think it's 
important to understand why you need 
both for your skin so hyaluronic acid um 
is great because it hyaluronic acid 
attracts a thousand times its weight in 
water to plump and hydrate your skin so 
it's a great way to boost moisture which 
is what keeps your skin feeling elastic 
and flexible and soft and supple so it 
safeguards collagen collagen is what 
keeps your you know when you see a baby 
with all that baby fat that's collagen 
and as we gain wisdom years um we 
deplete in collagen and so the skin 
becomes a little bit more thin and hot 
and you lose a lot of that elastic 
buoyancy in your skin so that hyaluronic 
acid is your the hero to um to solve 
that problem and then retinol is vitamin 
A and the way that you can think of 
retinol is vitamin A is a stands for 
acne and it also stands for aging so um 
retinol is great to turn over your skin 
because as we gain wisdom years again 
your skin stops exfoliating at the same 
rate as when you were younger so that's 
why you'll get more age spots that's why 
your skin feels drier because youve got 
this like top layer of dull skin cells 
because it's just not exfoliating as 
fast so you want the retinol what that 
does is it helps with cellular 
regeneration which is a fancy word for 
it just exfoliates and renews new cells 
that look youthful and vibrant and vital 
right 
so that's your beauty 101 Bella damn 
there's a lot for me to learn here 
clearly um I do that make sense so does 
that make sense why retinol would be 
that's the skincare 
solution to if you have aging concerns 
or acne concerns because you want 
to ex um expedite the exfoliation 
process the cellular regeneration 
process I love that no this is so great 
and I really appreciate you giving me 
the you know skin care for 
kindergarteners I'm sure you're all 
horrified at my prac no these are great 
questions I love them them um and with 
these Korean skincare regimes and Sav 
Beauty which I love everything you're 
saying do you find that people don't 
have to do as much cosmetic stuff like 
botox fillers or is that kind of like 
the 102 of skin care then interesting 
because I asked one of my friends when I 
saw her recently I said um and I think 
she just turned 50 maybe she's 49 she 
looked fantastic and she was super glowy 
and I said oh my gosh I just love the 
way you look you know I hadn't seen her 
in about 10 years so I was just like you 
look younger what's your secret and she 
said sa her beauty and Botox oh my gosh 
wow so she um you know so I think people 
they find what makes them feel 
comfortable they they do I think it's a 
very person personal decision what makes 
you feel comfortable some people just 
choose an all natural route and they 
look gorgeous but they moisturize their 
skin they wash their skin they take 
really good care of themselves they're 
happy they have that glow I have a 
friend who doesn't use any Botox and 
she's just using saber Beauty and she 
just looks phenomenal but she's one of 
the happiest people I know she's so 
grateful for everything in life she 
doesn't talk behind people's back she's 
not she's not a complainer she's one of 
she's probably the most positive friend 
I have and she looks so young and happy 
and vibrant and everyone's really 
attracted to her energy you know um so I 
think everybody I think you know I think 
I say that part of the I think um secret 
to youth is looking for what you're 
grateful for and 
um this carries you so much further than 
you would realize you know it is it is 
an elexir Fountain of Youth 
secret you know it's it's so true and 
you know my friend Jenny Stevens who is 
a coach and therapist she recommends she 
recommended for me to do two pages right 
gratitude 100% And guys once you get 
used to doing it it's a little addicting 
to sit down and write all the things 
that you're grateful for be and it's 
awesome and I've been doing this for the 
last month and I know I've been talking 
about it a lot but now I'm doing it and 
on the other page what she has me do is 
what she calls the dump right the things 
that didn't go well get them out of your 
head and dump them out on the paper just 
things that like irked you where the EG 
didn't go well do your dump page do your 
gratitude page and what I found by doing 
gratitude obviously it's great but doing 
the dump in conjunction also helps get 
out the ick kind of like we get the ick 
out from our skin like you first said 
when you're washing away the toxins of 
your day both physically mentally we've 
got to get rid of the toxins as well so 
doing a dump page has been super helpful 
and it's funny I did a dump page two 
weeks ago and I had said something to my 
mom which I was probably I was busy and 
it just came out shorter and edgier than 
I wanted it to and she's my best friend 
but she's my mom and sometimes we can 
just take on that tone and that came out 
on my dump like I don't like how I got 
short with her about this when I 
finished my dump page and my gratitude 
page I sent her a text hey I was in a 
rush and I feel like I was mean when I 
text did you or when I said that to you 
today I'm not proud of what I did or my 
tone I'm really sorry and she picked up 
the phone and she called me she's like 
what are you talking about I didn't even 
sense that but for me I had to process 
it and I texted her anyway so I love the 
I love the Gratitude 100% to Glow 
getting rid of the I with the dump and I 
love what you said about your friend is 
the most positive person and you know 
and she doesn't talk about people badly 
behind their backs and listeners if 
you're thinking about that it is so easy 
to get caught up in talking about 
other people right it's really easy but 
usually when I find myself tempted to do 
that because we're all human at the end 
of the day think about when you're doing 
that you have a mirror and you're 
pointing it outward right and usually 
what's going out is what you're feeling 
inside about yourself if you're thinking 
bad things and saying bad things about 
someone else it's usually stuff that 
we're not loving about ourselves instead 
when you find yourself doing that think 
about the mirror pointing outward and I 
want you to visualiz putting your hands 
on that mirror and turning the mirror 
gently inward towards yourself and say 
what am I not happy with right now yeah 
I love that you said so many amazing 
things and I first of all I just want to 
acknowledge um how you made it right for 
yourself with your mom and I think 
that's so beautiful I agree with you 
100% that you know just how we need to 
clean out all the dirt and debris and 
toxins from our pores we need to do the 
same and not only focus on what we're 
grateful for because part of that 
process is being 
real and what's not working and you know 
um saber Beauty has a self-care planner 
that it's called called my next 90 
days and we do just that there we it's 
it's a book actually it's right here oh 
and and here and and I have it by my 
side at all times you know there's a 
manifest wheel where you bring out your 
beauty Brilliance and balance for a 
holistic life and balanced life and you 
get to create your 90day vision here and 
some of the questions are you know 
what's flowing in the last 90 days what 
did I learn in the ne last 90 days and 
what's not flowing in the last 90 days 
but then the last question I think is 
really important what do I want to do 
the same or differently in the next 90 
days so what I love about your story 
with your mom is that you were able to 
process it write it down do a dump and 
then what what are you going to do about 
it you know like and I think that's the 
positive I call it focusing on the 
gorgeous chaos right it's like you know 
our life can be gorgeous chaos but you 
acknowledge that some things are not 
going well and then you focus on what's 
gorgeous and you take it into the next 
iteration of your next 90 days for 
example that's what we have you do in 
this in the self-care planner so I'm a 
big proponent of that as well and I 
think you know touching upon what you 
were saying about my friend 
um I agree with you that I think it's 
important to process and that's what 
friends are for but I also think it's 
really important what you said that like 
how we see anything is 
everything and how you see anything is a 
reflection of how how you see it because 
this is your experience right so um and 
I think if you practice this Bella in 
your life then because I I will not be 
friends with anybody who gossips I I 
believe that we are here to help each 
other process but there's there's a 
point where it becomes gossiping and 
there's a point where it becomes 
unhealthy right when it's just pointing 
out someone else's flaws and and you 
don't do any reflection of what's my 
50% um I I just find that if you 
practice this clean what I call the 
clean inside living um it becomes a way 
of life and you attract very different 
experiences into your life life as in as 
a 
result um you know in 2020 I was going 
through a 
divorce and I started to I launched 
myself into the dating world as a single 
mom in Manhattan which is very 
challenging and I've just practiced um 
you know clean inside living I call it 
spiritual intelligence where I see 
everything as a lesson every experience 
that I have in life negative or positive 
and especially actually negative because 
sometimes that's even more valuable 
because if you can look at it as what 
did I learn from this what's my 50% what 
do I own you just become so in tune with 
your spiritual intelligence and the 
higher your higher self and what you 
were meant to learn and I think as I was 
dating I I learned a lot from the guys 
right they would say that a lot of um 
the women in Manhattan because there's 
my partner my fiance says that there's 
like it's like 80% single women in New 
York city so it's very competitive in 
the dating world and it's it's can be 
demoralizing for women it's hard it's a 
hard City it is a hard city and what I 
heard a lot from the men over and over 
again was that you know the women that 
they were dating were 
angry jealous 
desperate and um they were scared they 
got scared off by it because there was 
this General energy of um I'm mad at my 
divorce I'm not you know they weren't 
and and they were describing it in a way 
where it was like these women are 
vicious they're they're out for 
something it's an energy thing they 
could feel it but I knew deeper down 
that a lot of the women are still just 
healing from past experiences right and 
I think a lot of the way that we can 
heal maybe a little bit faster because I 
think you do need to process it and you 
shouldn't ignore what you've been 
through is plugging into that spiritual 
intelligence which is okay let's start 
even though it's really hard for me to 
do this let's start with what you just 
said earlier Bella we need to take that 
mirror and point it inside and say okay 
what do I own here what's my 50% and 
that's really challenging to do and it's 
not just for dating it's for everything 
in life your work your relationship your 
every relationship you have friends 
family daughters sisters parents your 
lover 
whatever it's just asking yourself what 
do what can I own it's not over owning 
and it's not under owning it's just what 
can I clean up on my side of the 
sidewalk and then what were my lessons 
learned what am I learning here and then 
what can I focus on what can I do the 
same or differently for the next it's a 
very empowering practice right and I 
think once and and I do think because I 
had that a lot the reason why these guys 
were confiding in me this way is they'd 
say well you're you're glowing they 
would actually say you're glowing and at 
first I thought it was the skincare and 
and maybe it does have something to do 
with skincare but I course it 
but I think it has to do with also this 
attitude of yeah I'm not going to focus 
on the the things that didn't go well I 
want to focus on the lessons I've 
learned and what I'm going to do 
differently this next time you know I 
love that I think it's really important 
um for you and it's the greatest act of 
self-love so we've talked about skincare 
being self-love and turning it from a 
chore of washing your face into 
sensorial experience of taking out the 
dirt debris from your skin and yours 
your spiritual psyche right and the same 
thing can be said about what we're 
talking about now doing that inner 
self-work because it is work a self-work 
it's taking out the dirt and debris 
cleaning up your side of the sidewalk 
you know cleaning up your your 
proverbial skin and then just reflecting 
the radiance of what did I 
learn and how am I going to take care of 
this for myself in the future right and 
what am I going to do the same or 
differently I love yeah what am I going 
to do the same or differently and the 
self-awareness of it all is so 
empowering and it's really beautiful and 
it's super attractive it's very 
attractive when you can have that level 
of connection to your higher self and 
spiritual intelligence awareness you 
know it's really really I'm telling you 
Bella it's very beautiful and that's 
what I think when I was talking about 
one of my good friends that's what she 
has in Spades and by the way she's been 
married for 25 years and they act like 
newlyweds oh I love that and they're the 
only people that I've ever couple I've 
ever met that's like in that honeymoon 
phase 
still it's funny this week's podcast 
episode maybe for you guys by the time 
you're listening to this it's going to 
be uh several podcasts out was with Dr 
Helen fiser who is amazing and an 
biological Anthropologist and she 
studied men and women and relationships 
through fmri Chambers and how we fall in 
love and how we stay in love and one of 
the things that she said about happily 
married couples is we have what's called 
positive Illusions about each other 
right it's not delusions but it's we 
tend to over focus on the positive and 
we underfocus on the negative right it's 
it's like so your friends that have been 
married for 25 years they continue to 
look for the good and they're kind of 
like nah okay whatever with the bad 
right and most good relationship 
researchers if you're in a healthy happy 
relationship I am not talking about 
those of you who have been in toxic red 
flag relationship it's good it's healthy 
it's the kind of relationship we would 
put you in at Smart dating Academy it's 
continuing to focus on the positive and 
just having a strategy to deal with that 
15 to 20% that you don't love or you 
differ or you argue about my husband 
Andy and I have been married for 26 
years oh my gosh oh congratulations 
that's beautiful thank you and it's 
really it's important to continue to do 
that because especially as women right 
we've got diffuse awareness and meaning 
men have more one track minds because 
you know 200,000 years ago they're job 
was to sit in a damn tree and wait for a 
buffalo with the bow and arrow and shoot 
the Buffalo right whereas we had to like 
make sure that you know are there any 
Marauders in The Villages do all the 
other women around here like me because 
all the men are out in the jungle 
hunting Buffalo do we have enough 
mangoes like all of those things so 
women we tend to pay attention to 
anything that might be going wrong right 
and so and that's what leads to that 
negativity bias and we can become more 
critical and look at the things that are 
wrong it's not because we're bad people 
again check in with self-awareness is 
this something that's really important 
and am I focusing on the negative can I 
flip to focusing on what's good right 
because the bottom line is there's 
always going to be something that's not 
good no relationship will ever be 
perfect and I love what you said Bella 
as long as you're in a healthy happy 
relationship overall overall guys not 
red flag not toxic not abusive okay 
that's get out of that right there's 
always going to be you can it's I always 
say life is like a party you can focus 
on many many different conversations and 
activities and the good and the bad and 
the ugly but I think what you just said 
was so spoton it's really important to 
blow up what is working the gorgeousness 
right and focus on that and then dump 
the ick and then have a cleanup session 
for the ick right look at the ick and 
say what was my role in this yes right 
can I act differently hi Mom I'm sorry 
right your thing right because then the 
ick isn't an ick anymore and the next 
day it goes to your gratitude list so 
it's this good virtuous cycle that can 
happen in this so Angela this was such 
an amazing conversation I knew it would 
be good but it was even more Soulful and 
educational than I thought it would be 
so you've exceeded my glow expectations 
for the day and for that I'm grateful 
and smart daters listening to this I 
know you love this as much as I did so 
I'll put a link to Angela's website to 
save her beauty in our show notes so 
make sure you check it out because she's 
been all over the place and all of the 
media voted you know best skin care here 
and there and there and you can be damn 
sure I'm going to be trying these steps 
one two 3 4 five ASAP so I'll report 
back on how that goes so until next week 
get ready for Peak dating season ladies 
and gentlemen because it is arriving 
shortly if you need some help around 
that ping us go to Smart dating Academy 
fill out a form we'll do a session with 
you we'll make sure you're in good shape 
for Peak dating season so all the best 
to you until next week Angela thank you 
again and you so much for having me have 
a beautiful love filled 
week 


we have a lot more men coming into the 
spa something that men love is that the 
the skin care line is numbered 1 2 3 4 5 
so if you were to tell Andy use the 
serum he would probably tell you what 
number is that that's how guys think 
right so my partner he loves the saber 
Beauty line because it's numbered so if 
I ever say hey I think you need some 
carrot Rose serum because your skin is 
looking a little bit dull he'll say what 
is that just tell me what number that is 
um so I think that's why a lot of men 
may be attracted to coming in for Spas 
into our line because numbered system 
takes a guesswork out and that's what we 
did the New York Times called it the 
overwhelming multi-step line which is 
why we sort of made it for the American 
woman and numbered everything and 
simplified everything so that it takes a 
guess work 
out 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back I could not be 
more excited like jumping out of my skin 
excited about this episode today because 
I will tell you you have asked and we 
are delivering ladies this is for you or 
maybe men you know you might want to 
perfect your summer face too because we 
don't discriminate here right color and 
products are for everybody but I will 
tell you I brought on one of my favorite 
human beings for those of you who work 
with us in our one-on-one coaching 
program or you've taken our makeup 
webinar love lab called perfect your 
look for zoom and Beyond I introduced to 
you a celebrity in her own right my 
right hand makeup artist Anissa sabovich 
who is awesome and is going to tell us 
today how we can perfect wait for it our 
summer face and our summer look Anisa 
well welcome hello Bella and hi everyone 
thanks so much for having me I 
absolutely love what I do I hope that 
relays to our clients and I love 
teaching and I love informing I don't 
like to keep the secrets like if I know 
it and I know how to incorporate it I'm 
going to teach it to you I'm going to 
show you and let's do it I thank you for 
that lovely intro I really appreciate it 
oh my God you guys Anissa is the best 
and smart and funny and gorgeous inside 
and out so if you have not yet come to 
work with us one-on-one just call 
follow our insta stories and we always 
post the fun that we have in our photo 
studios because Anissa has worked with 
me I picked her up at a photo shoot 
um I'll tell you that story at the end 
so stick around for the end but she does 
all of the makeup for our clients that 
come in for our photo shoots and it's 
the most Glam fun amazing day it's one 
of the highest highs of the dating 
process it's my favorite day to go in 
see our clients see our team so Anisa 
creates the magic along with Michelle 
who's our photographer so she's gonna 
tell you right now because we're doing 
how many summer shoots have we done a 
gajillion already discount I've lost 
count and we're like fully booked next 
week and the week after and the week 
after so we're going to talk about 
perfecting your summer face and look so 
okay in general and of course I'm here 
learning from you Anisa what's the 
difference difference between a winter 
look and a summer look I'm here to share 
so think about winters so we're in 
Chicago y'all like it's not a pretty 
winter no one's loving it but winter 
typically we want to do like heavier 
right so we think just in general 
heavier layers of clothing but it also 
kind of translate over into our faces so 
heavier moisturizer heavier Foundation 
we need a little more coverage that 
summer glow the sun Tans are fading away 
her Skin's getting a little dry so we 
typically tend to go heavier-handed in 
the winter than we do in the summer 
summer again it's super hot so we're 
just kind of keeping it Light fresh easy 
breezy beautiful Chicago summer girls 
I love that okay so I'm gonna start out 
with the quote that I know you say all 
the time good makeup starts with good 
skin okay so tell us about our canvas 
our face our skin what do we need to 
know for this summer and while the 
weather is warm I would love to thanks 
for asking so yes this is my coined 
phrase I constantly say this so 
oftentimes a client will take a seat and 
she's like oh my skin is just okay well 
so my question I'm like I'm gonna throw 
it back at you what do you do to take 
care of your skin well what does that 
entail do you hydrate 
sometimes okay do you wash your face 
daily you know I'm so big about this so 
big about this is this yesterday's 
makeup because it's looking a little 
janky and I'm very forward as you all 
that have met me know I intend to be 
super forward but with good intention 
from a place of love we everything we 
say is our dating Academy is a place of 
love right girlfriend this is 
yesterday's face I can tell okay we all 
have our rough nights I get it but let's 
do something to take care of our skin so 
those steps look like simple easy wash 
your makeup off cleanser just get 
comfortable anything typically 
lightweight if you tend to be a really 
dry skin you're going to want to go for 
like a heavier cleansing balm something 
like like that just take take today off 
at the end of the day remove today's 
makeup after that hydrate throw a little 
exfoliation in there exfoliation can be 
simple it's not super invasive it's a 
quick extra like two minutes to your 
skincare regimen you can do it like 
twice a week but it makes a difference 
so summertime every every couple weeks 
your skin renews itself so what happens 
is we're getting these dead skin layers 
on top of dead skin new skins growing on 
top of old skin Slough that away so 
you're getting like the good skin the 
pure like virgin skin if you will 
underneath so Slough it off an exfoliant 
could be like little beads or it could 
be a chemical exfoliant they have these 
cute little pre-moistened like 
towelettes 
do do rub it on your skin that's it 
we're done okay I was about to ask you 
I'm like okay I'm gonna have this is a 
confessional today for Bella Gandhi 
um not the heaviest makeup wearer as 
everybody who knows me knows but I have 
a question 
pardon but stepping up your game for 
sure stepping up my game because Anissa 
is around me to help me she's like you 
need to step it up and I always listen 
to Anissa so when you know after a day 
you know whether it's been on camera or 
just a regular day I'll use a good 
makeup wipe to get my makeup off and 
then an eye makeup remover do I need to 
come back with cleanser with soap and 
water or is that enough yes you should 
okay with an extra cleanser so the make 
things are awesome thanks for asking 
great question the makeup wipes are 
wonderful lovely they are just taking 
the makeup off well now you have a 
residual leftovers from the white 
and you have to go in and wash that off 
to get your skin like squeaky clean so 
the reason you want your skin 
the reason you would want your skin 
squeaky clean is so that when you apply 
your skincare your serum your 
moisturizer your skin is absorbing all 
the goods from your skincare instead of 
having to work through that layer of 
makeup remover 
okay perfect so use your makeup wipe and 
then cleanse exfoliate hydrate okay and 
then we're talking about it's the Sun so 
we need sunscreen on our face at all 
times correct correct often times it 
will get there so I'll give you a little 
a little teaser a little sneaker yeah 
yeah please give us all together we're 
making our way towards like summer face 
summer complexion and it doesn't have to 
be like a heavy a heavy Foundation it 
could be a BB cream it could be a CC 
cream but definitely at some point in 
your regimen incorporate an SPF if 
you're going to be out in the sun and 
you know you're going to be out there 
for a prolonged period of time let's 
kick it up to like 50. if you're just 
taking a walk or going out with your dog 
or running out to run errands the 
minimum is 15. sometimes you guys these 
like products that are targeted towards 
like a quote-unquote summer face already 
have like an SPF 15 or an SPF 20. that's 
fine that'll do the trick as long as 
you're not outside for a prolonged 
period of time if you are just throw an 
SPF 50 in before your day and there you 
go 
another video 
warm but wait there's more but wait 
there's more 
um so personally this is a this is a 
two-way confessional I wasn't prepared 
for this but here we go 
after dark behind the freaking scenes 
here 
full disclosure I don't like to tan my 
face okay I am a sun worshiper I love it 
I love being tan but I don't like to tan 
my face because we all know the age-old 
stories of what it really does to our 
skin right we're getting wrinkled no 
one's getting younger out here and I 
just I want to keep them at Bay it's 
okay they creep in and it's fine but I 
just like to prolong the aging process 
and keep it at Bay what I do is I 
actually don't tan my face at all so if 
I'm laying out for example if I'm with 
my kids at the beach or with friends I 
will put 50 on reapply it regularly at 
SPF 50. reapply it regularly well guess 
what once I'm out of the sun my face is 
super pale and doesn't match the rest of 
my body you ready for it here's the 
secret self tanner 
self tanner on my face so my face 
actually never sees the Sun 
oh because you're covered in 50. and 
maybe a hat and sunglasses and all of 
the things but then to keep my skin tone 
even with the rest of my body so my body 
will get tanned the neck down but my 
skin I like to protect it from the Sun 
my complexion I should say I like to 
protect it from the Sun so I'll just 
even it out post sun exposure with a 
little sunless tanner so a little self 
tanner and I like to apply a lot of them 
you can apply with your fingertips or 
they come with like a glove or a mitt 
again another one of my little tricks I 
like to use a fluffy makeup brush and I 
just blend it over apply it usually it 
stays on overnight 
your your bed sheets are a little yucky 
in the morning but I mean tomorrow's 
laundry day anyway and then toss it in 
the wash your face is nice and tan you 
rinse it off in your tan and evens out 
and it just stays like that for how many 
days it stays oh it lasts about a week 
oh wow even if you work out or you're 
sweating outside you're working out 
you're sweating you're still cleansing 
you're still exfoliating it's still 
gonna last when it starts to fade you 
hit it with a round two oh my gosh I 
love that okay so that's your secret so 
you're not walking around with the white 
face and a brown body right and white I 
mean white compared to you for you 
because it's different I'm different 
mismatch is the right way to look at it 
so a self tanner available in all shades 
by and large all shades usually it's 
just they'll have most companies 
marketed like a light or a dark it's one 
of the two it just depends it depends on 
how dark the rest of your body gets or 
how dark you'd like your the skin on 
your face to be okay that's great and 
self tanner 
um you can also put it on your legs if 
your legs are inordinately white like 
mine 
um right you can put a self tanner on 
there as well right so always tease like 
you know my my winter skin my winter 
coat I'm very very very fair and I love 
it and I embrace it but in the 
summertime I'm like I I want a little 
Sun we all want to be that sun goddess 
come the summer month and here in 
Chicago I mean we have a very short 
three months of summer so we want to 
maximize 
I mean if this hasn't changed your world 
already it's changed mine I mean for 
God's sakes the sun is out but put on 
self tanner okay episode over game over 
let's go I mean okay my world has just 
changed for the better so now let's go 
we know our face is our canvas we know 
how to keep ourselves out of the sun put 
on the SPF clean yourself people know 
last night's makeup I can't even believe 
that but that's a whole nother episode 
in studio on the street I will call you 
out oh damn okay so now summer makeup 
right the first thing you'll always say 
is keep it light it's summer right keep 
it light keep it fresh think we're not 
masking anything it doesn't have to be 
heavy or a mask like just like I keep 
using metaphorically I keep using the 
layers that we have to bundle up in the 
winter so you've got your scarf you've 
got your hat you've got your gloves 
you've got your tank you've got your 
hoodie we don't need all this in the 
summer we just want to be fresh and free 
and clean and free of those layers same 
rule applies as it does with wardrobe in 
the winter we can metaphorically use 
that for our skin also in the summertime 
it's hot out we all know ladies we want 
to throw on a summer dress we just want 
to be easy breezy keep it lightweight 
same exact rule applies to our skin so 
think minimalistic okay Golden Goddess 
if we're taking care of our skin if 
we've already got our self tanned around 
we're already evened out we need a 
smidge and these are technical terms 
just a little touch of concealer maybe a 
little liquid blush to throw it up I 
love liquid blush here's why it tends to 
just blend right into the skin and it 
lasts all day we're gonna get to making 
your makeup last for the day and we were 
just talking about this Bella 
um but just keep it light keep it fresh 
you want everything Blended in and not 
not a lot less is more less is more 
these are this is the motif for Summer 
Skin and perfecting your summer face 
okay so let me recap what we're talking 
about summer makeup okay so now we're 
saying Tinted Moisturizer I love that 
that is 100 what I use and I have an SPF 
50 in mine and I will tell you I don't 
go anywhere without it I use it in the 
winter if I'm not doing you know if I'm 
like running around in my daily life 
Tinted Moisturizer is the bomb and it 
gives you that kind of glowy dewy look 
because it's part moisture there's SPF 
and a little bit of color it doesn't rub 
off everywhere and in the summer like 
Anise is saying you want light because 
you will Sweat Right because we want you 
moving you guys hear me talking about 
happiness and exercise and being outside 
for our mental health you want a face 
that doesn't melt off so we don't want 
layers that are melting off so use that 
Tinted Moisturizer if you need it over 
your self tanner because your face is 
now going to match your body right light 
concealer right nothing and then liquid 
blush does that mean cream name or an 
actual liquid so there they come in a 
few different varieties markets have I 
mean where blushes it used to be just a 
standard powder blush compact those days 
are gone blush is just blowing up in 
blush is really the pop that you want in 
the summer 
um alert alert guys summer summer blush 
blushes everything this summer this is 
the trend so your blush a liquid blush 
is just that it usually comes with the 
pump or it comes in a wand but it is a 
liquid formula that's distributed 
through a tube or a pump the way I like 
to apply it you know one of my favorite 
tools always is a beauty blender so I 
like to for example one with a pump that 
I use on set with a lot of our clients I 
will pump it right onto a beauty blender 
and just press it into the skin and it 
truly is that like fresh glow from 
within that's exactly exactly what it is 
and I like to do a light wash on the 
cheek and then guess what you can use 
that same blush on your lips you can use 
it on your eyes like I'm all about 
products that are one hit wonders like 
give me multiple uses for it and I'm 
sold oh my gosh I love that products 
yeah I love that and one of the things 
that I know you talk about and I know 
I've been guilty of and then and I now 
know better is that everyone's skin 
tones change to your point about being 
pale in the winter sun goddess in the 
summer right and even if we're taking 
all the Care in the world our skin is 
still going to shift I know I have to 
have different summer skin products than 
in the winter because I get really light 
in the winter so my winter Foundation 
shade is darker than my summer shade so 
just know that you're gonna have to and 
you might have to adjust your skin 
Shades is that right definitely 
definitely and that's normal that's 
typical that's standard don't feel bad 
about what's wrong with me it's totally 
normal I'd say 85 to 95 of my clients 
tend to feel this that like how come the 
same shade it just works for me two 
months ago well there's no sun now so 
that's why we need a different shade 
Just Adjust go with the flow roll woods 
and heims have a winter shade of 
foundation or BB cream or CC cream and 
have your summer care too right exactly 
and give us a quick definition of BB and 
CC for those who might not know this so 
BB cream is beauty balm so that is a 
treatment 
just to break it down to lamest terms a 
BB cream is a beauty it stands for 
beauty balm and what is a beauty bomb a 
beauty bomb is a product that is your 
treatment and correlation with your 
um Foundation or Tinted Moisturizer so 
it's like a treatment tinted moisturizer 
it's kind of how you want to approach it 
a CC cream is a color corrective cream 
oftentimes makeup artists what we'll do 
is it will have to go in and color 
correct so that's for us that have like 
dark circles or I've got these like 
hyper pigmentation spots on my 
complexion what we as artists do what I 
do is I'll go in and color correct so 
the CC cream has that step built in to 
the product again it's like let's 
eliminate not break it down it's all in 
the one tube of CC cream 
okay I love that both of those tend to 
have excuse me SPF in them amazing 
amazing amazing and so now let's talk 
about the subject that I love and you 
guys know I will talk about the berry 
lip but let's talk about color what is 
going on for color this summer what do 
we all need to know to look fresh and 
cool and like on Trend it's it's just 
that it's fresh bright washes we're 
looking for the pinks we're reaching for 
the berries the corals your berries are 
still here Bella we love you yeah where 
you're still good 
so whether you have the tan whether 
you're working and you're not getting 
much sun now thanks to this podcast you 
can everyone's going to be reaching for 
a self tanner at least for their face 
um go ahead and treat yourself to a nice 
fresh pop so pink Berry a light wash on 
the cheeks again I love these liquid 
liquid blushes girls I'm telling you 
it's where they're at because you can 
use the same shade let's say you opt for 
like a bella Berry because berries 
aren't just berries anymore you all 
should know that they're Bella berries 
like Bella Berry lips it's a movement 
it's a movement it's a movement jump on 
the bandwagon so if you reach for your 
bella Berry the same shade that you use 
on your cheeks you could do just a light 
wash on the eyelid and a little bit on 
your lips and there you go you're ready 
for it oh my God did you guys hear that 
three in one 
we're going to call it the Bella Berry 
absolutely it's it is Tyler Berry oh my 
God absolutely people ask me all the 
time what's your favorite Berry lip and 
I when you and I did the love lab the 
perfect your makeup look which you can 
buy on our website we talked about my 
favorite Berry lip is still Nars is Pele 
Royale and I'm trying to remember what 
yours was at the time 
mine was lover I believe or my new one 
is Lover by Maybelline oh I love that 
we're a good thing I'm obsessed oh my 
God we're like Walgreens CVS all the way 
up to Neiman's right and that's what you 
can do right you don't have to break the 
bank on these products you can totally 
mix and match so we like we share our 
love and our passion over these 
Maybelline and we're not plugged guys 
we're not I mean I'm plugging 
shamelessly because it's a great product 
and I don't like to gatekeep I love 
these Maybelline long wear lip stains 
they're on forever and lover tends to be 
my favorite Berry and heroin is my 
favorite coral for the summer and 
they're like under 15 and I've tried 
high-end low end like I just I love 
these things and they're great 
absolutely and her makeup kit that she 
brings to at SDA to do our photo shoots 
has like 150 different shades of 
everything and so many of them are 
Maybelline and those are absolutely 
amazing I agree and you can pick up even 
the everyday the Maybelline 
um what are the Crayons called that are 
like eight bucks that you can get at 
Target the ones that stay on like you 
and I have left like you have to take a 
washcloth to get the sucker off 
it's there to stay oh yeah absolutely so 
love those and 
um again love for lips that I want to 
share 
um tinted lip balms or lip oils again 
just kind of keeping it light and fresh 
so sometimes gloss and I'll get this a 
lot from our clients that gloss it's 
like I don't like it it kind of gets all 
over the place I will always suggest go 
for a lip oil so you're again hydrating 
and treating the lip but also wearing a 
little tint so you have a little bit of 
color 
okay and we can just look for lip oil 
yeah yes and most brands make that this 
is new to me too they do 
because I do berries and I can show you 
every Cup in my office and there's a lot 
because I drink a lot of stuff during 
the day has residues of lipstick and lip 
gloss so I'm always like oh gosh if I'm 
gonna go to someone's house I don't want 
to wear lip gloss because I'm good 
they're going to be like oh my God 
there's that Bella Grande and that Berry 
lip gloss all over everything and I know 
it was here giving your mark in 
everyone's living room 
absolutely so that's really great to 
know about lip oil I'm going to make 
sure I go out and get me some and and 
again I know you're a big fan of these 
things beauty blenders right and blend 
in all of this stuff like you're saying 
I bought my first one two months ago 
don't judge I love it it's okay it's 
okay it's never too late it's never too 
late and no judgment this is the no 
judgment Smart dating Academy Zone oh my 
God Beauty blenders for those of you who 
might not know and maybe I'm the only 
ignorant Schmo on Earth which I tend to 
be a lot but especially when it comes to 
makeup but it's like this pink sponge 
that's sort of shaped not like a clown 
nose but it's sort of it's just cool and 
you can blend literally anything I've 
taken it when I feel like oh I don't 
like the concealer you just rub rub rub 
and it's like it's like an artist's 
paintbrush and it just Blends everything 
together so get yourself a beauty 
blender they're like five bucks and 
they're amazing amazing and I have a PSA 
okay I've had clients that are like how 
come yours feels different yours is so 
much softer so this is a public service 
announcement you are supposed to wet it 
and Bella you I hope that I told you 
this or you may already know you're 
supposed to wet it squeeze out the 
excess water before you use it so you 
use it damn oh God she didn't know you 
did not tell me this I I want to try I 
dropped the ball I'm a terrible friend 
I'm sorry you wet it you completely 
submerge it in water and squeeze it dry 
and use it damp and that's how you blend 
I'm so sorry truth bomb ladies 
so today we've learned that I've just 
bought my first Beauty blender eight 
weeks ago and it's been dry so now we're 
gonna soak that sucker and we're gonna 
squeeze it out hey guys we're all works 
in progress including me right nobody 
has made it yet 
except Denise has made it to the top of 
the makeup Hill but the last the rest of 
us are all Learners so um let's talk 
about one of my favorite subject 
besides lips eyes tell us all of the 
things about summer eyes I love eye 
makeup so eye makeup also tends to be 
the one thing that it's like oh the 
girls in the magazine or people on 
social media they just look so perfect 
and Blended and it doesn't have to be 
complicated you don't have to call in 
and call off a work for the day it can 
be a super quick process and it doesn't 
have to look like you threw something 
together you can definitely still look 
fully put together and don't have to 
spend half your day 
um tackling eye makeup what I absolutely 
love especially for summer are the cream 
eyeshadows so you guys they have these 
in either sticks so there's like an eye 
shadow stick there's so many of them on 
the market 
um eyeshadow sticks tend to be more 
popular and then they also have 
eyeshadow cream pots again high-end low 
end so the pots look like 
um 
like a Carmex right that's that's kind 
of how they're sold and they come in 
Shimmer washes or matte washes same 
thing applies with the eyeshadow sticks 
but what I love about the eyeshadow 
stick let's say let's stick with those 
no pun intended 
we do it all makeup comedy you name it 
you name it we got it you want a drink 
you want a shot we've got it you got it 
um the eye shadow stick for example 
you'll take that and literally just rub 
it from your lash line up to 
um halfway up your eyes so halfway up to 
your brow and just blend it out with 
your fingertip boom your eyeshadow is 
done 
it's that easy it's that easy you can't 
mess it up I assure you I promise you 
cannot mess it up oh my gosh one of my 
favorite ones is a gold Shimmer crayon 
from Laura McAvoy and it's amazing and 
I'll take it and I just wear it on my 
lips Laura Mercier or Trish or Trish 
McAvoy see Trish mcelboy that one Laura 
I was thinking is it Laura Mercier 
they're both beautiful Brands they 
should be friends you guys see why I've 
hired a makeup artist that you're not in 
my hands for makeup so Trish McAvoy it's 
amazing it's this gold Shimmer and I 
have one in charcoal and I put it on my 
lid and now that I've watched Anissa do 
her work I'll also like tap a little bit 
underneath my eye to just sort of make 
it look like eyeliner so it's a lighter 
look and it doesn't have to be a harsh 
black liner or something underneath your 
eye and it's just and it's easy and you 
throw it in your bag right especially if 
you think oh my gosh my face is going to 
melt off throw it in your bag and it's 
teeny tiny and it fits and they're 
amazing definitely definitely and 
another another little tip because I 
love them and I love to share 
um if you get a light like gold wash 
like you're saying Bella what you can do 
is you can even use that same pen and 
just give yourself a little tap on the 
inner corner of your eyes it brightens 
up your whole look and let's say you're 
running late and you're like I don't I 
can't afford the 23 seconds it would 
take me to apply the shadow just give 
yourself a little love tap with that 
light bright eyeshadow stick on the 
inner corners of your eyes and you're 
good to go oh my gosh and you guys this 
is just a public service announcement 
Anissa and I put together a 90-minute 
webinar love lab called perfect your 
look for zoom and Beyond and Beyond made 
States and it's rooted in data from 
Harvard about the look for women the 
makeup look that is the most promotable 
at work and that dovetails perfectly 
with our recommended dating look and we 
put together this 90-minute webinar we 
did this about a year and a half ago and 
it we put 
we have products we have a list we and 
we I'm talking through it Anise is doing 
a demo on it so if you want to look at 
this and you love these tips in detail 
go to our website 
smartdatingacademy.com go to webinars 
buy that thing it's on sale for 99 bucks 
on there you will learn more than you 
will potentially imagine and you will 
see Anissa at work and that just 
reminded me when you talked about 
dabbing that eye shadow stick into the 
little inner corners of your eye how we 
went through every single step including 
contouring and highlighting and how you 
give yourself an instant eye lift using 
makeup in this webinar so I'll put a 
link in the show notes as well to this 
webinar if you're loving this watch that 
it will change your freaking world and I 
can't tell you it's how selfishly 
rewarding we've spoken about this ballot 
to this day still so that was some time 
ago as you mentioned about a year and a 
half ish let's say 
um we still are getting so much positive 
feedback from clients that attended 
clients friends that attended that and I 
love it it's the gift that keeps on 
giving and it just it makes me feel 
really good to know that oh wow okay you 
did learn a lot and you're still using 
those roles today I love it oh 100 my 
married friends have all they're like 
can I buy the webinar I'm like of course 
you can and it's available on our site 
so if you like this and you really need 
help with how to apply it that is the 
thing to do in any six spills out all of 
her favorite products in there a lot of 
us have bought a lot of that stuff and 
everybody is in love with it so 
um so first summer and this is 
um how do you how do you kind of melt 
proof your face I know with our client 
photo shoots we do a lot outside and the 
clients always look amazing I'm sweating 
my face off we're all sweating our faces 
off but how do you protect that look 
setting spray setting spray setting 
spray setting spray I cannot say it 
enough so again we have really short 
Summers we don't want to waste our time 
inside we want to maximize every moment 
we can of being outside and enjoying it 
because you know we are going to be 
cooped up in the winter so let's get 
outside no one wants to waste their time 
inside it's too lovely of a day so 
making sure the day doesn't slip away 
off your face you're going to use 
setting spray here's where the magic 
lies are you guys ready instead of 
spraying it directly on to your 
complexion I like to use our new magical 
favorite tool in my kit the beauty 
blender so I get a setting spray spray 
it onto the beauty blender and tap it 
into your complexion at those High sweat 
areas right so our T-Zone our forehead 
maybe the upper lip a little right here 
outside on the cheeks that's how you're 
going to tap it once you have the spray 
onto your bra onto your beauty blender 
you're going to tap it on and then make 
up it's not moving the wet Beauty 
blender not the dry Beauty blender the 
dance Beauty blender right no you spray 
it on the dry one and like you need a 
new you need a new setting spray it's 
going to absorb all of it oh my gosh and 
I love that because not only are you 
going to set it but you're going to blot 
off any excess stuff right as you're 
blending so that's amazing do you have a 
favorite setting spray 
I tend to I love morphe okay I used to 
use it it was an Urban Decay 
um I I didn't love the smell I'm I'm 
very particular about smells and that's 
just like honest full disclosure I 
didn't love the smell of the Urban Decay 
it works well but I just couldn't get 
over the smell to me I had like a little 
Funk to it I love morphe 
um because what I love about it is that 
it smells fresh and clean it's a light 
mist it's just like a nice little treat 
for yourself when you're done with your 
makeup like look at that so you do your 
makeup you follow our steps you go ahead 
you purchase our class that we talked 
about before you're done you take a step 
back in the mirror and you're like damn 
I look good I just did that I just did 
that to my face look at me I'm feeling 
myself and then you just missed it on 
press it into your skin and you're like 
okay I'm ready this work of art is not 
going away so let's make plans let's go 
okay so after recording this podcast I 
will tell you I'm going to buy the 
morphe setting spray I think it's 
m-o-r-p-h-e is that right 
yes yes have fun with it they're they're 
no wrong have fun with it embrace it 
it's makeup it washes off because now 
you're all washing and wiping it washes 
off it comes off have fun with it play 
with it customize it make it your own 
these are the general tools but every 
face is different every look is 
different every preference is different 
and it's okay just have fun with it 
claim it make your own we may even have 
some listeners that are saying you know 
I don't really like makeup that's okay 
that's your thing that's your thing it's 
fine it's totally 
and everyone has a different preference 
that's why there are so many products 
there are so many faces that we see on 
billboards and that's the beauty of it 
customize it have fun with it make it 
your own 
and try some new things guys I mean I am 
the Pele Royale Soldier 
recently I've started trying out 
brighter pinks Anissa will give me new 
colors she did my makeup for my TED talk 
with this pink lipstick and people were 
like what is that lip that it needs to 
put on you for the Ted Talk today if you 
watch the reels of this segment I'm 
wearing a brighter pink lipstick and 
it's not a berry so push your boundaries 
out it'll give you a little bit of a 
dopamine surge you'll walk down the 
street going who's noticing my new 
lipstick my new lip stain or my amazing 
setting spray so people will when you 
wear it permanently people will they 
definitely will so embrace it have fun 
with it it's makeup it's not a tattoo no 
it is definitely temporary you can 
although these lip stains I mean they 
could be as permanent as you want them 
to be but it's not a tattoo you can wipe 
it off you can wash it off but I agree 
have fun with it go outside of your 
comfort zone this is part of like the 
human growth process jump out of your 
comfort zone I love that Anisa thank you 
so much for being here and guys remember 
if you loved this go to the show notes 
buy the whole tutorial you will not be 
sorry we've had nothing but five star 
reviews hundreds of them on this webinar 
that we literally took hours and hours 
and hours and hours and hours to put 
together between us and it was fabulous 
and if this all sounds good to you get 
your tail to Chicago to come and work 
with us and do a photo shoot because 
then you'll need us personally and guess 
what then you don't even have to do the 
tutorial because Anise is going to make 
that gorgeous face gorgeous for you so 
with that Anisa thank you again 
thank you Bella thanks for having me oh 
my gosh you're such a delight one of my 
favorite humans smart daters until next 
week we leave you in a world of happy 
Rosie blushed summer looks have a great 
week 


[Music] 
what Eileen and I are going to talk 
about is something that you have asked 
for and even when we give it to you you 
ask for it again and again and again 
what we want to talk to you today about 
is signs that you're talking to a 
catfish someone who's disingenuous a 
Tinder swindler a fraud somebody who's 
just plain unsavory I'm so relieved in a 
way that people ask for this again 
because it's so important there's always 
a new scam there's always a new spindle 
and sadly a lot of times because love is 
a strong emotion that makes us all do 
some crazy things it makes people Target 
and this is not just targeted to females 
guys if you're a guy listening to this 
we've had that many men also potentially 
get lured in by someone that is unsavory 


I was dating someone casually I was on 
the west coast he was on the east coast 
and that worked just fine then I moved 
back to the east coast because of my job 
and we were in the same city and it just 
became clear that it was not the right 
relationship probably for either of us I 
have this one friend who told me about 
Smart dating Academy and I was like oh I 
don't know she sponsored me to come to 
this the the workshop where you were 
talking to this group and I came and I 
still wasn't convinced because I didn't 
want to put in the hard work I was like 
this is too hard I kept thinking about 
it off and on and then I finally decided 
that okay I'm going to do it but when 
you called you were in and I'm just 
thankful that that I did find a liit to 
my pot and who would have thought who 
would have thought that you know I would 
meet somebody who was literally in route 
to another continent and that we would 
end up together it's it's just 
unbelievable 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
I know that this is the episode that 
you've all been waiting for and I've 
been waiting for two Rachel Zar sex and 
relationship therapist at spark therapy 
at northwestern's Center for sexual 
medicine and menopause Rachel welcome we 
are going to Dive Right In to you and 
dive right into this topic thank you for 
being here with us yay thank you for 
having me I'm so excited and I love to 
talk about sex and I love to talk about 
dating so let's dive in can I serenade 
you let's talk about sex baby let's talk 
about you and me okay that's the only 
time you're ever going to hear me sing 
on my podcast so 
um tell us a little bit about what you 
do who who you serve give us a little 
context and then we'll go through some 
of the things that you want to talk 
about with our audience to give you guys 
everything and then some you've thought 
about sex thought you couldn't say you 
wanted to say Rachel's got all the dish 
and we've got questions from you 
listeners as well to go through so tell 
us what you do okay well it's a good 
question because a lot of people don't 
know what sex therapists do and the most 
important thing to know is that Sex 
Therapy is just talk therapy 
um despite what you might see on TV 
nobody's ever getting naked or touching 
each other I'm not touching anybody oh 
man 
it's mental health it's just talking 
through sexual issues 
um and what I do basically is people 
come to me I work with both individuals 
and couples and they come to me with any 
sexual concerns Under the Sun a lot of 
times for couples that's a difference of 
discrepancy in the way that they like to 
have sex or and how often they like to 
have sex at the center for sexual 
medicine I'm working with female-bodied 
people who have some kind of sexual 
functioning issue so that's issues with 
libido arousal orgasm 
pain with sex I see a lot of women with 
painful sex which is not normal sex 
should not be painful unless you want it 
to be there's always that little caveat 
oh okay did you guys hear that Fifty 
Shades of me exactly we could go there 
we could go there 
but in my private practice and the group 
practice that I'm a part of I'm working 
with people of all genders all 
relationships structures any kind of 
sexual issues but I do have that kind of 
specialty Niche focus in working with 
female bodied people who have concerns 
about the their sexual functioning or 
really just want to have a deeper 
understanding of their sexual selves how 
they show up sexually 
wow that's amazing I love what you do 
and like I told you as we were having a 
quick conversation before this podcast 
this is God's work I've had so many 
people that get into great relationships 
but then sometimes something's missing 
with the sex sometimes it's Ed sometimes 
it's I want him to do this but he 
doesn't want to do this sometimes it's 
she wants me to be more experienced but 
I'm not so we refer out very fluidly to 
sex therapists because I know 
um once I've surpassed my pay grade and 
that's when I bring in the experts like 
Rachel so 
um 
I'm so glad that you set the stage for 
what you do and you know let's talk 
about I certainly have my thoughts at 
Smart dating Academy about sex and what 
we call sex exclusivity and waiting to 
have sex until you're in an exclusive 
relationship because we often see people 
that come in with lots of red flags and 
like to jump into things Fast and 
Furious and so tell us about what do you 
tell people about when it's okay or not 
okay to have sex for the first time sure 
sure 
um the answer to a lot of these 
questions for me is going to be well 
Bella it depends 
and sometimes it's like therapist Mantra 
it depends 
um but I think when we're talking about 
sex with a new partner it's all about 
intentionality and I think what happens 
is too often people get stuck in these 
kind of rules the one that I hear most 
often is the third date rule right 
right and it drives me crazy because 
first of all it sets it sets these 
expectations it puts a ton of pressure 
on this kind of like energy and 
chemistry to be there by the third date 
which for a lot of people that isn't 
true and why the third date this is what 
you should do your PhD on why the F who 
was the dude that created the three-day 
rule just decided but this is where I 
mean this is a this is human nature We 
Like rules we like structure we like to 
know what the game is that we're playing 
and the problem is 
um that when we're dating it's really 
more about feelings than it is about 
rules and logic and we just have to 
acknowledge that sex comes with a lot of 
feelings for some people and this is 
where you know I know that you advocate 
for waiting a little longer I think that 
that gives you so much time for that 
intentionality that's really important 
about sex I also really I see a lot of 
women who are out there dating 
um men too I do see this more and women 
who are really beating themselves up for 
having sex too early in a relationship 
um I always invite people to just kind 
of do a self-check around deciding to 
have sex how are you feeling before how 
you feel enduring how are you feeling 
after what do you think sex means I 
think a lot of times people think like 
you know oh if we have sex that means 
that we're exclusive or exclusive that 
means that they want something more or 
it means that they don't respect me that 
they that you know some people will say 
yeah I don't really see this going 
anywhere so might as well have some fun 
sex out of it and unless we're 
communicating unless we're setting up 
those intentions we really don't know so 
there's no right time to be having sex 
from my perspective when you're dating 
sometimes 
you're dating just for fun you want to 
be able to have a sexual relationship or 
the chemistry is there the mood is right 
and you just decide to go for it with 
nothing to worry right it happens and 
you know I've seen sex on a first date 
that leads to a really long meaningful 
relationship I've seen people wait until 
you know six months or until marriage 
right we see that a lot and have a 
really beautiful relationship so there's 
no rule the third date rule is made up 
it's arbitrary it's all about 
intentionality 
and really self-awareness how are you 
going into the sexual experience what 
are you expecting out of it 
um 
and that's where I stand it depends I 
love that and what you're saying is it 
should feel right for you whatever your 
intention is so if we take the 
reciprocal of that if you are thinking 
well God it's the third date and I'm not 
ready but I think this is going 
somewhere and I should really you know 
have sex because I don't want to lose 
this person that's not a good time to do 
that potentially because you're doing it 
from a place of fear exactly the thing 
that I like to say is when we're talking 
about consent we're often talking about 
consent between two people there also 
needs to be a process of self-consent 
right do I really want to do this and 
especially early in the relationship 
I say if it's not a yes yes yes then 
it's a no right if you're really 
thinking about you know it's not just no 
means no it's it's either yes yes yes oh 
my goodness I'm so excited I can't wait 
like I can't wait for it to know 
no no no and and self-consent is such a 
big deal I love that so much you have to 
check in with yourself and if you're 
coming from that place of fear or you 
just don't know and is this too soon is 
it not if it's not a yes yes yes it's uh 
how about we give it another date 
right right give yourself permission to 
take your time to move intentionally 
um you also see that a lot of times when 
people feel that pressure they tend to 
do things like drink too much or get 
into a state where they're really not 
able to give that self-consent or 
consent to another 
um so just be aware of that if you're 
feeling a lot of anxiety if it doesn't 
feel right to you then it's not and any 
partner and this is actually a really 
good opportunity to check this out any 
partner that's not respectful of your 
sexual boundaries 
is not going to be a good partner for 
you long term that's really kind of 
foundational to having a good sexual 
relationship is respect for each other's 
boundaries and able to communicate 
that is such a great point one of the 
things that we get and now understand 
too when people come to us with the 
intentionality is I want to find the lid 
to my pot I want to find a committed 
exclusive relationship that's going to 
go the distance and to your point we 
advocate for three months right like 15 
to 20 dates and why not for any 
arbitrary reason not for game playing 
right it's it's really to develop the 
like to develop the emotional intimacy 
to make sure I'm kicking the tires I'm 
taking the car for a test drive in the 
snow and in the rain and all of the 
conditions right before I oxytocin bond 
to this person so that's that's usually 
so if you're from Smart dating Academy 
and you're one of our clients and you're 
listening to this right I'm not going to 
start advocating for a three-day rule 
but you know the rationale as to why we 
say slow things down because a lot of 
times our clients will come to us having 
chronically been attracted to people 
that aren't good Lids to their pot 
aren't good partners for them maybe 
they're emotionally avoidant maybe 
they're narcissistic they're 
non-committal whatever it is and it 
takes a while to start to suss that 
stuff out and I say get to know people 
under a variety of contexts because 
sometimes it's like in the beginning 
you're dating somebody's representative 
you're not dating the real person and in 
three dates again I'm not going to say 
judgment but these are the conversations 
I have with my clients like okay if 
you're going to spend two hours per day 
with someone and that's a collective of 
six hours over three days basic 
multiplication it's not even a freaking 
legit work day which is eight hours so 
let's kind of put a little bit of rash 
Chanel to this so unless you have 
self-consented unless it's a yes yes yes 
ladies and gentlemen it's a no and the 
right person and this is the biggest 
point that I just love about what you 
said is people need to respect your 
boundaries and what I can tell you is 
when people you know I know you know our 
philosophies and everybody's like oh my 
God 15 20 dates but I will tell you a 
person that wants to be with you will 
respect those boundaries they will move 
mountains to be with you so if you say I 
want to be in a committed exclusive 
relationship where I can call you my 
boyfriend if this dude is legit and he 
wants to be with you guess what he'll be 
like game on sister that's fine so just 
to set the stage around all of this it's 
you it's the other person and the right 
person will like Rachel saying respect 
exactly what you want and if they won't 
then you have to ask yourself would this 
be a good part for me long term sure 
sure and I think what's so just to add 
the other side of that coin if we're 
talking here about women who are dating 
men 
men are hearing those same men are 
feeling that same pressure that women 
are around oh I've gotta like 
real men want to have sex right away and 
all of this stuff and I swear I hear it 
more from men than I do for women this 
idea of like I do think I need to wait 
or I'm feeling really anxious about sex 
but what's she gonna think of me if I 
don't want to have sex right away right 
every we're all caught up in these same 
narratives and if you're not feeling 
comfortable with it there are other 
people out there that are not feeling 
comfortable with it too and it's why 
it's so important to have it's what I 
love about what you do Bella but it's 
all about kind of like let's look at our 
patterns here what is working for you 
what is not working for you and the 
permission to rewrite the script 
and just being authentic to ourselves 
and it's regardless of what gender you 
are we're stuck in the sexual script 
especially when we're talking about 
heterosexual relationships we have such 
such a script for that oh yeah and it 
scripts to your point we coach men as 
well as women and sometimes men and we 
prescribe the same kind of Doctrine to 
men and women it's not only hey women no 
it's men too like we want you to have a 
dating funnel and date a lot of people 
and so that you are objective through 
the process when you're dating 
consciously right and and men will often 
say my God these women are like let's 
just have sex in my car it's like the 
second date or the third date and they 
feel the pressure of that like hey coach 
you're telling me not to do this but 
these women like they're like oh my God 
High School me is kind of like oh my God 
this is amazing but like adult fail me 
is like wait a second I don't want to 
like it's it's he you know I had a 
client named Dan who's like it's easy 
for me to do that like I could sleep 
with you but it's good I I I don't want 
to do it number one and number two it's 
gonna probably mean something different 
to you than it will to me at the end of 
the day so the answer is no and it's so 
it's so interesting you're right that we 
all there's such a script that we carry 
around on this both men and women and 
one of the things that you say is you 
know you hear people speaking of sex 
whether it's the third date or the 30th 
date whatever it is people we've had sex 
once so now we have to have sex every 
time and a lot what do you tell people 
about that like is there should we 
pressure ourselves like oh my God I I 
had sex does that mean tomorrow I've had 
sex twice and then on Friday five times 
and what do I have to do sure sure it's 
something that I hear all the time this 
idea of like once you like once you 
break the seal you are then having sex 
on every single date and if that's what 
you want to do cool again if that yes 
yes yes is there and I think that's 
something that kind of tends to fade 
away as we progress into relationships 
and that's really worth holding on to is 
the sexual tension that's there when you 
don't know that kind of yeah can we let 
things build up can we make out for 
three hours and not go straight to 
intercourse right that you don't hear I 
have so many people come into my office 
and I say well when was the last time 
you just made out and kind of kept your 
pants on and just rubbed up against each 
other and they're like uh probably our 
second date right it's not something 
that people are doing but that's where 
all the juice is like that's the sexual 
tension that's the excitement that's the 
energy that's what gets us to the place 
of yes yes yes so so often what people 
do is once they've had sex 
um in a lot of if we're in this script A 
lot of times that means intercourse 
they kind of skip to the finish line and 
they start doing that more and more 
frequently and that's it's just kind of 
fast forwarding through all the good 
stuff through all this stuff that really 
gives you the feels that has you feel 
connected to all the persons to the 
other person and it becomes about 
performance and getting to a Finish Line 
as opposed to really being about 
pleasure and connection and all of the 
wonderful things that come with being 
sexual not necessarily with having sex 
um I love that and that again advocates 
for maybe slowing things down and 
checking in with yourself and checking 
in with the other person and asking 
yourself what do I want from this and 
and I love the fact that you say that 
the idea that having sex with someone 
for the first time has to be amazing and 
great is a total myth let's talk about 
this because I know for smart daters oh 
my God they're like what do you mean why 
do I have to wait for 15 days what if we 
don't have chemistry what if the sex 
isn't good 
and so let's go there like how do we 
like what if it's not great or maybe it 
shouldn't be great is this about 
resetting expectations 
I think it really is I think it really 
really is because and let's put blame 
where blame is due we see it in the 
movies we see it I mean it is like first 
date you just fall into bed together and 
everyone knows exactly what to do with 
their hands and everyone's just having 
orgasm after orgasm and at the same time 
and it's just if it's right we're gonna 
have this amazing sexual chemistry and 
it's just not realistic [ __ ] right 
exactly it's [ __ ] it's not how 
people work it's not how relationships 
work 
um and I sometimes encourage people 
especially early on in a relationship 
especially if it feels like oh we just 
can't get over that hump just have bad 
sex have clunky figure it out laugh 
about it right don't make it such a big 
deal don't assign so much meaning to 
that first sexual experience because the 
truth is when we think about what 
actually makes sex good it's all about 
learning someone else's body right 
learning the ins and outs of what feels 
good for them and anyone who says 
something like well I'm really good at I 
know exactly how to make women orgasm or 
I know exactly how to make men orgasm 
it's like all you know is what made your 
last partner orgasm you don't know 
anything about this partner you don't 
know what feels good to them especially 
all that the juicy touchy feely not just 
straight to the orgasm stuff 
um and it's figuring out how does my 
body work with this person how do we 
communicate about this it's building up 
all of that as to your point Bella 
building up all of that emotional 
connection all of that 
deeper stare into each other's eyes 
stuff that takes time and what we have 
to remember is that the first time 
having sex with someone regardless of 
how how long you've been dating or how 
well you know them is really vulnerable 
You're exposing yourself literally and 
figuratively to this person for the 
first time you're letting them in 
sometimes quite literally too literally 
figuratively exactly 
sometimes you're really letting someone 
into your body and that's really really 
vulnerable 
we just have to kind of lighten the 
expectation here allow ourselves to do 
that kind of like well my my right hand 
is falling asleep so like let's pause 
let's roll over let's refigure it out do 
you actually like this 
um is that feeling good for you was that 
an orgasm right 
figure it out allow yourself the freedom 
to develop a sexual connection as you 
develop your relationship 
I mean and that's so great I love that 
have clunky sex have bad sex and be with 
someone who you can communicate about 
that with and laugh about it with I mean 
what it you know I read so long ago like 
for women like their biggest sexual 
organ is their brain right it's true for 
men too yes it really really is and when 
we think about what sex is at its core 
it's adult play it's like the one time 
as adults that we can just let our 
imagination run totally wild we can be 
silly we can be goofy we can be serious 
we could have a Persona and the only 
Point unless of course you're trying to 
conceive or something like that the only 
point of sex is pleasure that's it that 
is the reason we do it pleasure and 
connection but it's 
play play play play so we need to treat 
it that way and I think we just 
sex often feels so heavy and a lot of 
the work that I do with clients is just 
kind of making it not such serious 
business 
playing we're exploring get creative get 
curious about the person that you're 
with 
abso freaking lutely and get curious 
about yourself and your own body and if 
you don't know yourself how can you best 
guide someone else so talk about this 
because there's so there's so much 
stigma thank God that's starting to wane 
at this point around self-pleasure 
masturbation so much of it especially 
for women come you know religion there's 
so much shame that's been put around it 
right and so now we're in 2022 so 
whether you're 22 years old or listening 
to this or you're 72 years old listening 
to this it's okay to do this it's okay 
to do this and it's never too late to do 
but if you're 70 years old and you've 
never taken a look at your vulva now is 
the time 
[Laughter] 
honestly it's she's she's down there and 
she is interesting and she is unique and 
she can feel pleasure it's just about 
giving yourself permission again that 
Curiosity and I think that we generally 
put a lot of pressure on Partners to be 
mind readers to know exactly what to do 
with our bodies and then you know I say 
to people all the time well what do you 
like sexually like what actually does 
feel good to you and your body and a lot 
of the time people look at me and they 
say oh well I don't know shouldn't 
shouldn't they know that like shouldn't 
they've they've been with you know other 
vulvas that I've never done you know 
it's like no no you live with me every 
moment right sure she's there like right 
now always attached you and I really do 
I think that it's so quintessential to 
having a good sexual experience to be 
able to give yourself a good sexual 
experience to really know this is what 
feels good for my body this is what 
tends to lead to my orgasm this is where 
my brain goes in terms of fantasy and 
what I like to what I like to think 
about that really gets me revved up gets 
me turned on 
um it sets us up to be able to explain 
that to a partner first of all or show 
it to a partner 
um with confidence with with some kind 
of actual understanding instead of just 
waiting for a partner to read our minds 
and figure it out when often there's 
nothing that's even going on in our 
minds that they'd be able to read 
because we're going well I don't know 
either like I guess just poke around and 
see what feels good that never works 
that doesn't work so get to know thyself 
yes get to know thyself and if for 
people who do have 
um a religious restriction around 
masturbation or something like that you 
can do that work with a partner you 
could have a partner be there 
um one thing that I really recommend for 
people is to masturbate in front of a 
partner if you feel comfortable with it 
it's a really really great opportunity 
for your partner to see okay what do 
they do when they just want to get off 
right you can it saves you from having 
to put words to it you can just show 
someone what you do and it's real it's 
very very intimate it's very vulnerable 
but it's a really good way to just kind 
of hey here's what it takes here's what 
it looks like 
um and most people would be excited to 
be able to witness something that's that 
personal enough right it's like here's 
the owner's manual well here's the video 
there's the owner's manual here if we 
want to just get to it this is what 
works best right and who wouldn't want 
the standard operating procedures for 
their partner I mean of course it's 
about creativity and role playing in 
play and I love how you make that you 
know such a focus of this but really 
knowing yourself and being comfortable 
with yourself will help you to have 
better sex with anybody because then you 
can be like oh hey you know it's like 
knowing your kitchen right it's like oh 
you know that's the bad cabinet don't 
put the heavy stuff in there actually 
put it over here right and you know 
where the all the little nooks and 
crannies are and if you know that in 
your own body as well you're going to 
connect with someone else better 
ultimately it's to your own benefit and 
I think it is our responsibility as 
sexual humans to take responsibility for 
our own pleasure to advocate for 
ourselves to ask for what we want and 
need 
um and it's something that is really 
really hard for a lot of people but I do 
think speaking of that owner's manual 
owner's manual to sexual organs take 
responsibility for your own body's 
pleasure advocate for it it also just 
takes the pressure off a partner and we 
all feel this that kind of like 
am I doing this right do you like this 
remember it's the owner of the genitals 
responsibility 
for those that pair of genitals pleasure 
right you are not responsible for your 
partner's penis you are not responsible 
for your partner's vulva you are 
responsible for your own body 
and advocating and communicating that to 
a partner 
I love that and what about if someone 
says something to you like okay I'm 
taking responsibility for myself and I 
like Acts and let's just say x is 
something that you're not into afraid of 
opposed to do you come across this and 
if so how do people handle that or how 
should dear listener handle that yes 
dear listener 
um I think 
this is really hard it's actually a lot 
of what I see in my office is people who 
are coming in with you know I want to do 
this thing sexually and they really 
don't want to I think the thing that we 
should always keep in mind is that we 
never want to be shaming our partners 
right 
the phrase that we use a lot in the Sex 
Therapy world is never yuck somebody 
else's Young so if someone says to you 
oh it feels so good to me if we could X 
Y and Z whatever it would be you never 
want to respond with it oh my God ew 
what's wrong with you that's so weird 
right because oh my God how shaming how 
terrible for your partner who's just 
done this really vulnerable thing in 
Sharing what they want what would feel 
good to them what would feel good to 
their body remember that it's always 
hard to do that and we always want to 
create a safe space for bringing those 
requests 
bring those requests to the table that 
being said just because your partner 
wants to do something doesn't mean that 
you have to 
right that there's no kind of like well 
he brought it to me in a nice way and he 
invited me to so I guess I gotta do it 
because it's what he really likes 
um we always get to check in with 
ourselves just as you never wanted to 
yuck somebody else's yum you also don't 
want to Yum somebody else's yuck so if 
someone's going oh that feels really 
really uncomfortable to me I really 
really don't think I could do that you 
never want to go what are you talking 
about it's the best thing ever you'll 
love it right that's so invalidating of 
that feeling so what I invite you to do 
instead is get really curious right what 
is it about that that you think would 
feel good what are the pieces of it that 
are really important to you what are the 
pieces of it that don't feel good like 
what's the worry 
um the example that I'll use because it 
comes up a lot is anal sex right A lot 
of times when it comes right down to it 
and you ask you know what is it about 
anal sex that 
you're looking for well I really you 
know I've played with anal stimulation 
on my own and I really like this 
sensation and then it's kind of like 
okay what can we use can you do some of 
what you do on your own and I can be 
present for it what's your worry about 
anal sex right I'm worried it will be 
hard it will hurt okay can we do some 
research on that and figure it out can 
we test first with something small right 
start with your pinky and move on up 
um 
I'm worried that there's gonna be poop 
that's gonna come out right okay right 
what can you do to get out ahead of that 
um when are we gonna shower right really 
have a conversation about what is it 
that's 
that's bringing up that yuck feeling 
what is it that's bringing up that yum 
feeling right get it the why and then 
you'll be able to have a really 
non-shaming conversation about what you 
want to what you want to try and where 
you want to negotiate there's certainly 
nothing wrong 
with with choosing to have a sexual 
experience with someone when it's their 
thing and not yours right I'm doing this 
as a gift to you if you can show up as 
kind of a I just I love doing this for 
you and it brings me joy to see your joy 
great if it's making you feel that ick 
if it's making you feel like 
um 
any kind of that disgust feeling or if 
it's making you feel used or 
uncomfortable right then that's not in 
that yes yes yes category and we really 
want to make sure that we're not 
coercing our partners to do something 
and most Partners really don't want 
their partner to show up to something 
that they're really not comfortable with 
so it's always better to voice that if 
you don't want to do something but again 
it's all about non-shaming never ever 
shame your partner for what they want or 
what they don't want but just getting 
really really curious 
and this again 
dear listener comes down to everything 
that we're talking about in some way 
shape or form has one common element and 
that's knowing yourself and being able 
to communicate in a healthy way just 
like you would you know if you were 
negotiating paint colors for your 
bedroom like ultimately and I don't mean 
to make light of this but if you think 
about it really in its simplest terms 
it's I like this you like that or I 
don't like this and you like that how do 
we meet in the middle why do you like 
this color why don't I okay maybe we can 
have a lampshade in that color right and 
this is it's so much about your comfort 
with yourself and what you want and your 
comfort that this human will hear you 
and respect you and not shame you 
exactly exactly it's all about creating 
that environment where it's safe 
safe to say yes safe to say no 
um and I love that paint color analogy I 
talk about food a lot right like how do 
you decide where you're gonna where 
you're gonna have dinner when you 
disagree about where you're gonna cook 
dinner you had dinner you're not arguing 
about who's who's right and what's 
objectively better you're talking about 
okay well we did have a lot of pizza 
last week so what if we went there and 
maybe I'll order something else right 
you have a conversation you negotiate 
you talk about it 
and 
and Rachel as as people get older and 
we've you know maybe been around the 
block a few times or maybe it's not even 
age related it's you know we get you 
know we get the gift that sometimes 
keeps on giving and never goes away 
um the STIs and I know and I know that 
you know the data show that the majority 
of people have something or lots and 
lots of people have them and so what do 
you what is your advice to people about 
talking about hey I've got this 
when do you do it and how do you do it 
oh it's such a tricky topic and it's 
something that 
something that I feel so passionate 
about is starting to reduce this stigma 
about STIs and I think 
um it starts with the language that 
we're using around STIs a lot of times 
people will say like I want to make sure 
my partner is clean and it's like oh so 
if they have an STI they're dirty like 
think about what that does it puts us in 
a situation where there's so much shame 
around bringing up the idea of an SGI to 
a partner that people are less likely to 
disclose because it's not actually a 
safe place to do that we know that to 
your point there 
like two-thirds of the population have 
HSV-1 which is the oral herpes which can 
be transferred generally 
um about 15 percent of people have hsv2 
nearly everyone who's sexually active 
will have HPV at some point in their 
lives I mean this is we just have to 
accept that there is some inherent risk 
of Contracting an STI when we're being 
sexual this is the thing I actually love 
comparing it to because we all have such 
an acute experience with this now is 
covet right we're going around with our 
masks saying six feet apart from 
everyone we were assuming that every 
single person had coveted even if they 
were asymptomatic and for most of us 
that didn't mean that we were locking 
ourselves in a room and never leaving we 
were just being really really careful 
and taking precautions about okay 
I'm going to wear a mask when I'm around 
these people I'm going to talk to people 
about what their boundaries are around 
covet who else are you seeing right are 
you wearing a mask with those people 
right these are the same kind of 
conversations 
if you do have an STI that you need to 
disclose to someone which I recommend 
doing fully clothed before the moment 
right before the moment there's already 
enough tension in that moment you never 
want to drop a bomb on someone in an 
environment where they're having to 
react right away 
um and just remember that the way that 
you talk about it 
most likely they will your partner will 
model what you're putting out so if you 
put it out there in a way that's oh my 
goodness I have to tell you something 
and it's so so awful and you're probably 
gonna hate me and you're going to want 
to break up with me and I can't believe 
it remember this is not uncommon the 
likelihood that your partner also has an 
STI is pretty high even if they don't 
know it 
um so what you want to do is you want to 
say hey 
here's what it is 
um I have 
hsv2 it's herpes I had one outbreak when 
I was 17 and I haven't had an outbreak 
since I take daily Valtrex to make sure 
that 
you know that I'm not having outbreaks 
that it's well managed I think that we 
should use a condom a barrier method if 
we're going to be sexual 
how does that sound to you do you have 
any questions right it's just matter of 
fact it is what it is recognize that not 
you know that stigma is out there people 
may have a big reaction of Furs they may 
need to take take a beat 
um come down from it do some Googling on 
their own 
um 
and remember that it doesn't have to be 
a death sentence to a relationship it 
doesn't have to be a death sentence to 
being sexually active 
um it's everyone has to do their own 
risk reward analysis when they're 
deciding to be sexual with someone just 
as we were deciding whether to let 
someone into our coveted pod right same 
kind of thing 
um so just again never never do you want 
to shame someone that you're 
um especially when you're entering into 
such an intimate relationship with them 
absolutely and you never also want to 
shame yourself yeah right yes I see so 
much of that people's people feeling 
like they're broken or they've done 
something wrong and again it's so so 
common it's the cost of doing business 
um and and and 
the medicine that we have around it is 
good A lot of these things 
um you can you can manage most of these 
things a lot of STIs are treatable right 
you can treat them right away and then 
you never see them again but even for 
these STIs that don't go away you can 
live with them you can manage them you 
can have a full and beautiful sex life 
we just we gotta kill the stigma yeah 
100 and I love that life is moving in 
the direction slowly of killing stigmas 
around mental illness and STIs and 
masturbation so many of the things that 
we're we're talking about in here 
um let's hop to some of the hot 
questions okay our listeners and you 
guys if you don't know this by now you 
probably are like geez these chicks are 
going there so we're going there and you 
guys have asked the questions so it's 
really interesting how many questions I 
have about 
female 
genitalia and grooming and what do men 
like and what do men expect so 
what do you think give us the goods 
Rachel 
whenever I hear a question like this and 
it is it's kind of surprising to me how 
many questions we did get about this I 
think about okay how would I respond if 
someone asked me 
do men tend to prefer women that have 
long hair or short hair 
right even if there were an overwhelming 
way that most men lean does that mean 
that you should go out and get a haircut 
so that men will deem you more sexy 
right it's women should have the hair on 
their heads yes that makes them feel 
most authentic to them that feels good 
on their body that they know that they 
can take care of in a way that fits into 
their lives 
um that has them feel comfortable and 
confident which is ultimately the most 
sexy thing same goes for the head that's 
on it anywhere on your body 
including your genitals do some folks 
have a preference yeah I mean I know I 
personally love a man with a beard I 
think beards are very very sexy have I 
dated men without beards yeah would I 
ever push a partner to grow a beard that 
they weren't willing or didn't feel 
comfortable with or didn't want to have 
to take care of no it's their face it's 
their choice I think the same goes for 
pubic hair right if you really have no 
preference about what you're doing with 
your own pubic hair which some people do 
you can ask right some people will have 
a preference one way or another if 
you're asking make sure that you're 
prepared to hear the answer that you're 
not going to get offended if someone 
tells you that they prefer something 
that's not what you're doing 
um a lot of people don't have a 
preference about their Partners 
um about their Partners pubicare 
um it's also important to remember that 
there is a biological reason that we 
have pubic hair oh it's there to help 
protect our vulva protects from bacteria 
it can also really change the sensation 
of sex right it prevents from that skin 
to skin chafing or if your partner has 
pubic hair and you don't you can get 
some of that like rug burn when you're 
having sex that can feel really uncomfy 
so if that's something that's happening 
for you just keep it in mind pubic hair 
is natural so if you want it go for it 
if you don't want it get rid of it it's 
really it's really your body your choice 
right that this idea that we have to 
change our bodies so that the people 
that we're dating will be more 
comfortable with it it's kind of like 
okay again let's prioritize ourselves 
let's prioritize our own pleasure here 
exactly and again it comes back down to 
being really comfortable with the person 
that you're with and that you're going 
to expose yourself metaphorically 
physically all of the things with and if 
this person loves you like Rachel said 
okay I might think beards are sexy but I 
would certainly be able to fall in love 
with somebody that didn't have a beard 
and nor would I push him to grow a beard 
and Rachel and I know each other because 
we have a very good common person in 
common her mom is a very good friend of 
mine and your mom is a gynecologist and 
a surgeon and one of my favorite bits 
and Lauren when you listen to this I 
hope I'm not misquoting you she did it 
and you can probably quote this study 
that she did where she surveyed a bunch 
of men I don't know if it was a hundred 
or a thousand on what they preferred 
from a pubic hair standpoint and the 
basic punch line to it is they really 
don't care they just want to be invited 
to your party exactly exactly no one is 
scrutinizing us the way that we 
scrutinize ourselves they're really 
really not 
yeah we're being sold into a lot of 
services I think right Beauty Wellness 
we're always going to be told we're not 
good enough because that sells products 
and services so sometimes I can be a 
little bit of a skeptic around this so 
just listen to what Rachel and her 
brilliant mom and these brilliant women 
are telling us is just be yourself do 
what's comfortable and authentic for you 
and if you feel like somebody will shame 
you or judge you I would say is that a 
good partner for you right right minimum 
here we want someone who's going to 
respect our choices exactly exactly and 
love you for you in your own choices 
right 
um okay so great question you do you boo 
with your pubic hair 
um the next question I'm 41 years old 
with not a lot of experience was married 
for 17 years What's the sex protocol 
hmm 
what I mean by sex protocol yeah it 
sounds like probably what I was asking 
about right the third date Rule and you 
know 
about what feels comfortable to them in 
terms of when to have sex 
um 
if they're referring to like 
what are kids doing in bed these days 
um 
I think that for a lot of people it can 
be really comforting and helpful to read 
books about sex right if you're feeling 
like I don't really know 
um my own Anatomy or partner's Anatomy 
or what would feel good there are so 
many great books out there podcasts 
um sometimes if you've been out of the 
dating and sex scene for a while you 
just kind of want to reintroduce 
yourself to the idea of sex I recommend 
I recommend podcasts a lot because it 
just kind of gets you used to hearing 
the words and how people are talking 
about it what people are talking about 
um 
watch some good sex on TV right figure 
out just kind of get getting yourself 
back into that sexual mindset but I 
think the short answer is there is no 
protocol it depends you get to build a 
life a sex life that really works for 
you and works for the person that you're 
dating 
um there are 
all of the rules are flexible here 
absolutely and what I take from this 
question to LeapFrog off of what you're 
saying is you know what are the rules 
the rules are that 
self-check-in what are the rules you 
want do you want to just go out and have 
some Benders as some of my clients will 
say I need to do a basic equipment check 
I know you don't want me to have stuff 
right now until I'm in an exclusive 
committed relationship but I'm just 
gonna go out and do a couple of things 
I'm like that's fine go do your 
equipment have your fun you know what I 
said my only job is to make you not fall 
in love with someone who has Sinister 
intentions so as long as you're you go 
into it Eyes Wide Open girl you go do 
that equipment check so the rules are 
yours so 
um the rules are completely yours so 
um this is this is funny six dates and 
no kiss yet question mark 
foreign 
you know I just and I don't know who 
asked this question or who they're 
dating but I gotta say there are two 
pairs of lips on those dates and both of 
you are just as able to initiate a first 
kiss as the other one I think especially 
when it feels like it's been too long 
um people tend to just kind of wait for 
the other one to make a move and if 
you're both waiting for the other person 
to make the first move you're going to 
be waiting a really really long time 
um 
consent is sexy so if you're curious 
about why there hasn't been a kiss or 
you're wanting a kiss you can just ask 
you don't have to leave in you know and 
hope that they're just feeling the exact 
same moment that you are something 
that's just you know hey I'd really like 
to kiss you I've been wondering when 
we're gonna have our first kiss right 
it's lovely it's sexy it's endearing it 
makes sure that you're not getting 
people right it's brave brave it's Brave 
right and this idea and I think again we 
get caught up in these scripts about 
who's supposed to initiate the first 
kiss if you want to kiss someone 
initiate it ask go for it and chances 
are they've just been waiting for you to 
do it too if they're still dating you 
then they probably want to kiss you 
I love that 
um you know there's so many questions in 
here about you know sex after menopause 
sex at 65 how do the men perform right 
and how you know is there anything that 
you would 
especially tell people that feel like 
they're in an older age bracket you know 
like oh yeah it's going to be really 
different or yeah not really like just 
get it together and do the things we've 
been talking about you know everything 
that we've been talking about applies to 
every single age that being said we do 
have to recognize that there are and I 
won't speak too much to the medical 
changes because I'm gonna stay in my 
Lane here but there are medical changes 
and especially if we're looking at you 
know women past menopause yes you're 
going to notice some things like more 
difficulty with lubrication some vaginal 
dryness 
um maybe some difficulty with orgasm 
these are fixable problems right just 
because something is normal does not 
mean you're not allowed to fix it or 
address it and you can go to a doctor 
who specializes in sexual medicine who 
specializes in menopause which your 
gynecologist might not so check that out 
and fix it we do know that you know 
men's penises do become or erections 
become less reliable as we age what we 
do tend to see and what's really 
interesting is that there are studies 
that show that those who stay sexually 
active 
you know you can be sexually active till 
you're 100 if you want to be 
um they do tend to report that their 
sexual experiences actually get better 
and more pleasurable and what people 
tend to do is they start to focus more 
on what is the feeling in my body they 
focus more on the pleasure on the 
connection 
you get to know your body a little bit 
better because you've been living in it 
longer right and you've been doing all 
of this work around self-exploration and 
getting to know yourself and we don't 
Focus as much on performance on how hard 
is his penis on how wet is her vagina on 
how many orgasms do we have and we just 
start to focus in a little bit more on 
Pleasure and sensation and eroticism and 
if you're able to make that shift away 
from performance and towards pleasure 
sex just gets better and juicier and it 
gets back to that we can make out for 
four hours and it's just so exciting 
kind of sex so 
if you want to be sexual it does not 
matter how old you are you can be sexual 
and yeah your body is going to change 
and again there are lots of things that 
you can do about that 
um to make sure that again we don't want 
sex to hurt so sex is painful you 
especially want to see a doctor about 
that but yeah there is no no no limit to 
when and 
at what age we can be sexual I love that 
and you know if I can just put a pretty 
bow on this entire conversation you know 
somebody asked and this is just a great 
way to wrap it up is it healthy to want 
amazing sex in chemistry with your 
partner 
and I would say hell yes 
yes hell yes to that yes absolutely 
absolutely 
and I think that we've talked so much 
about how to do that and I think what I 
want you dear listener to do is unwind 
all of the crap that we're being fed 
like Rachel said through Hollywood and 
what we think things should be like and 
oh my God it's perfect and everyone 
orgasms 100 times per night and like at 
the same time and it's always perfect 
and sex should be perfect it's throw all 
of that out of the window have the 
clunky sex 
communicate be with someone who feels 
like they are safe to you be with 
someone that you can talk to and laugh 
with I would say if you don't feel that 
way about this person why would you do 
this in the first place right even if 
you're doing an equipment check and 
you're like I just want to get laid find 
someone that seems fun and as a good 
listener and is interested in you and 
you can laugh with okay right if your 
mechanic is hot and flirts with you all 
the time you're like I just want to go 
have a bender with my mechanic well he 
should be nice 
yes right right just because we're 
having we're having sex outside of a 
relationship context doesn't mean that 
we still don't deserve all of these 
things that we're talking about focus on 
your own pleasure asking for what you 
want connection play right these are the 
this is the recipe for a good sexual 
experience in and out of a relationship 
absolutely and so 
it is healthy and normal to want amazing 
chemistry and amazing sex all of you 
listening and so I hope you have had the 
amazing Goosebumps I have had through 
this entire episode Rachel Zar thank you 
for your Brilliance and for bringing 
common sense to something that's so 
incredibly emotional I'm sure you 
listener or breathing a little bit of a 
sigh of relief and taking the pressure 
off of yourself and taking the steering 
wheel of your own body into your own 
hands and maybe you're kind of excited 
about what you're going to do this 
weekend and get to know your own body 
whatever that is we can plan sets 
weekend plans set so thank you so much 
again for being here you're amazing of 
course thank you so much fella so much 
fun as always 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back I am so excited 
to talk to you today and we're going to 
hop right into 
a segment that I think you're going to 
want to listen to again and again and 
again I'm bringing you back again my 
friend Dr Lauren Stryker if you haven't 
heard the episode we did last time it 
was about dating and weight gain an 
amazing episode so Lauren thank you for 
being here with us well you're welcome I 
thought when you were gonna say this is 
an episode you're going to want to hear 
I thought you were going to say when 
you're alone 
and you're in a crowd of people because 
we're going to get down deep and dirty 
and intimate yeah when I do this when 
you're with your mother for example I'm 
just saying exactly get the little ones 
out of the room get all put your airpods 
on people get your headphones on because 
today we're gonna talk about sex and 
most importantly safe sex and fun sex 
okay and they can all go hand in hand 
but Lauren is here to tell us all of the 
things you guys know she's a 
gynecologist she runs the sexual health 
clinic at Northwestern University and 
she's a basically a celebrity in this 
world so Lauren let's get right into 
this tell us everything Let's Talk About 
Sex and safe sex 
well the way I like to think of it is 
how to have a positive experience 
without testing positive because as you 
said it's supposed to be fun you don't 
want to spend so much time worrying 
about if you're going to get herpes or 
gonorrhea or chlamydia that you don't 
have a good time but having said that 
you can have fun and still keep it safe 
but this is all about planning in 
advance because in the moment is not the 
time to say whoops you know I hadn't 
really thought about that how am I going 
to protect myself against a sexually 
transmitted infection but the numbers 
are going up in all age groups and we 
see the highest numbers of sexually 
transmitted infections in the 20 to 30 
year old crowd why because quite frankly 
they're having the most sex 
um and it's not always safe sex it's not 
always protected sex but having said 
that no age group is spared bacteria do 
not ask to see proof of age before they 
infect you and we see infections whether 
you're 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 and and we 
see them more in women than in men 
because women are more prone to getting 
a sexually transmitted infection than 
guys are so unfair but so true why why 
is that the case a lot of it is because 
women have you know thinner skin there's 
more of a chance that there's going to 
be a nice little portal of entry in the 
vaginal walls because it doesn't take 
much it can be a teeny little scratch or 
an abrasion such that when there's a 
little bugger a virus in there it's 
going to have access to crawling right 
into the tissue and because women are 
the receivers instead of the givers it 
is more likely so I'm not saying that 
guys don't get STIs of course they do 
otherwise we'd be giving it to the women 
you know so the guys exactly it's just 
it's more likely that if a woman has STI 
with a man it's less likely that he's 
going to get something from her than if 
a woman has sex with a guy who has an 
infection so but everybody has to be 
careful about them time 
right and I know you and I have had many 
conversations about this both online and 
offline with drinks in our hand talking 
about sex and when to have sex and you 
smart daters I know subscribe to the 
Smart dating Academy philosophy of sex 
exclusivity waiting to have sex until 
you're in a committed exclusive 
relationship I agree with that it's just 
the timing that might be 10 minutes 
after you meet someone that you decide 
your aunt you're the lid for my pot and 
and we're best to be exclusive everyone 
says yay and then yeah that's an 
exaggeration that's right after well we 
want to keep all the narcissists and the 
avoidance at Bay and the only way to 
know that is over an extended amount of 
time so that we can really kick the 
tires on seeing who this person is you 
can build that connection and then 
ultimately have a partner a boyfriend a 
girlfriend whatever you're going to call 
it and then hit the hay jump in the sack 
do the nasty and all of that now here's 
what's particularly fascinating we say 
exclusivity now what I also tell my 
clients is oh but I'm not saying we're 
in a Convent okay I'm saying there's a 
lot between zero and the big nasty and 
Lauren is always educating me and out 
there educating all of us on the fact 
that just because you're not actually 
really having sex sex that doesn't 
necessarily mean you're not going to 
catch anything so even if you're 
subscribing you're like okay well we're 
making out we might be going to second 
base or third base 
you sound like you're in seventh grade 
all right I'm gonna put things a little 
more out there 
penile vaginal intercourse is not the 
only way to have sex 
a lot of people think of that as actual 
sex but the truth of the matter is that 
sexual activity can be oral it can be 
anal it can be digital with fingers it 
can be with toys it can be what we call 
outer course meaning you get all naked 
and you're rubbing your genitals 
together but there's not actual 
insertion those are all forms of sex all 
of them and those are all ways in which 
a sexually transmitted infection can be 
transmitted but part of what people kind 
of fall into to feel like they're a 
little safer or they're not going to get 
themselves into trouble is they'll say 
as Bella would say we're really not 
going all the way we're really not 
having sex we're just fooling around and 
I maintain that fooling around is sex 
it's just a different kind of sex it's 
the sex that maybe you're not going to 
get pregnant but you are certainly 
having sex and you can certainly have an 
STI 
okay so maybe we can call this like bdad 
before the deed after the deed penile 
vaginal anal where one thing's going 
into another okay so does that sound 
fair like what do we need I think we can 
call I think that what we let's just 
divide it up to make it really simple so 
we're all talking the same language yes 
we either have sexual activity with 
intercourse or sexual activity without 
intercourse okay sexual activity but 
it's are you having intercourse versus 
are you not having intercourse okay is 
that that work for you that's perfect so 
let's say we're in the beginnings we're 
on like you know we're sort of just 
testing the waters out we've got our 
dating funnel going we're hanging out 
with multiple people now what do we need 
to be thinking about well that depends 
on how naked you are and oh I love where 
this is going turn the volume up ladies 
and gentlemen that I used to read good 
old and Landers who's now been dead for 
I don't know many years and Ann Landers 
used to always say as long as both of 
you have both feet on the ground you 
have nothing to worry about 
I don't know that I 100 agree with that 
because people can be very creative 
nowadays 
um but you know the idea of when you say 
how when are you going to get into 
trouble I mean the truth is as you get 
into trouble in general when at least 
one person has their pants off and I 
mean they're Underpants too you know 
that's when things can go to the point 
of actually having a sexually 
transmitted infection so I think at the 
point when you are at you know get 
getting down to that level is when you 
have to start thinking about am I 
putting myself in a position where I 
might get something and and one of the 
big misconceptions about acquiring a 
sexually transmitted infection is this 
idea that it's only going to happen 
through intercourse and the problem is 
is that a lot of sexually transmitted 
bugs they live on the skin they're not 
in the vagina necessarily they're not in 
the semen they are on the skin and I 
think when you think about it you all 
know that I mean we know that you can 
have herpes on the outside side and that 
you don't have to ejaculate for you to 
get herpes you can get herpes from your 
mouth obviously so you know that has 
nothing to do with actually having 
intercourse we know that genital warts 
HPV which is the most common sexually 
transmitted infection that lives on the 
skin and on you know what we call the 
mucous membranes like the openings of 
the vagina and also you know other 
places on the body that have mucous 
membranes so there's a lot of 
um there's a lot of potential for 
transmission of an STI even if just one 
person has their clothes off 
interesting and so 
people will often ask me like Bella do 
you think I should get tested you know 
should my partner get tested what and so 
my question to you 
is when we say tested and I put that in 
quotes what does that even mean and how 
like what should we do with us and our 
partners to make sure that we're both 
safe right well you know that's probably 
one of the most common questions that we 
get in the clinic is people come in and 
say I want to get tested for everything 
and when we tell them there is no such 
thing as getting tested for everything 
people are surprised to hear that 
because there's this kind of basic you 
know sense of well of course you can get 
tested and then if you both get tested 
and you're both negative then you're 
home free and the truth of the matter is 
is that there's no such thing as getting 
tested for everything and to make it 
even more confusing every doctor has 
their own little panel of what they 
might test for so one woman might go to 
a clinic and say I would like to get a 
test for sexually transmitted infection 
and she might get a test for say 
gonorrhea and chlamydia and then another 
clinic might also say well we're going 
to include syphilis and then someone 
else may include hepatitis so the the 
idea of that you're going to go and get 
a test and be free and clear is simply 
not true and this is even a bigger issue 
when you have asked that of your partner 
in a willing you know lovely partner 
might say sure I'll go get tested and 
then he or she come back and reports I 
was tested and I was negative and then 
there's this confidence level of oh good 
you know they were tested so I don't 
need to worry about it when in fact the 
real question is what were you tested 
for specifically and so when someone 
comes to me and says I would like a 
sexually transmitted infection screen 
the first question I say to them is are 
you having any symptoms now most STIs 
are asymptomatic but sometimes people do 
have symptoms that may lead me to test 
for a very specific infection and then 
the second thing I'll say is were you 
with a partner who you know to have a a 
particular infection because if they 
come to me and say yeah I was with this 
guy and he told me after the fact that 
he has gonorrhea well then obviously I'm 
going to test you for gonorrhea actually 
I'm just going to treat you for 
gonorrhea but you know but I'm going to 
test you for gonorrhea and 
so once we have that conversation then I 
will say to the woman because my 
patients of course are all women I'm a 
gynecologist and I will say okay I am 
going to test you for the following and 
then I list the following four or five 
things 
um there are many other things that I 
can test you for and there are also 
things that we don't do as part of a 
standard battery is there anything else 
you had on your mind because I'm not a 
mind reader you know is there anything 
else that you were thinking about or 
worried about or concerned about that 
you would like me to test you for and um 
and then we could have that discussion 
but I mentioned HPV human papillomavirus 
is the most common sexually transmitted 
infection and a lot of times people will 
say oh I want you to test me for HPV 
well we actually can't really do that 
and that's because yeah it's I mean if 
someone has let's say a genital wart on 
their vulva or vagina yes I can test 
that for HPV but if someone has a 
completely normal exam and I know don't 
see anything and everything looks fine I 
could certainly do a cervical swab to 
check for HPV which is What's Done 
during a Pap test because we're checking 
for HPV as well because HP of course 
increases your risk of not only cervical 
cancer but vaginal cancer vulvar cancer 
penile cancer 
Etc so we can do a swab but what that 
slob tells us is not do you have HPV 
what it tells me is do you have one of 
the high risk HPV that we are 
specifically testing for and is it 
active right now meaning oh yeah it gets 
a little confusing but this is important 
so if somebody gets a Pap test for 
example and the Pap test comes back 
showing HPV 
and they'll say oh did I just get it 
because my last Pap test was fine 
and the answer is we don't know you 
could have had HPV for 10 years but 
basically your HPV can go into 
hibernation it can become inactive so 
it's not always going to show up in a 
Pap test so I don't know when you got it 
but the other thing is is there's 60 
different subtypes of HPV we don't test 
for all of them we test for the ones 
that are put you at increased risk of 
cancer so if someone says I don't have 
HPV because my Pap test didn't show any 
it's really not true it means they 
didn't have a high risk HPV that was 
active at that moment so to Circle back 
to where this started if someone comes 
in and says I would like a test for HPV 
what I say to them is I can do a 
cervical swab and it will tell me if you 
have an active high risk HPV right now 
but that's the only information I'm 
going to get so the answer is no in 
general blood test there's nothing 
there's no blood test I mean you know in 
research settings certainly they that's 
how they get you know all this 
epidemiological information in research 
settings certainly they can test for 
specific types of every type of HPV and 
all that but from a practical point of 
view I can't do that kind of testing in 
my office and and it's just not done so 
you know again people get this idea like 
okay I was tested I'm negative same like 
we talk about Herpes you know herpes is 
of course extremely common and if 
someone has a sore I can certainly 
culture that sore to see if it's herpes 
and if it's positive it's herpes if it's 
negative it doesn't mean it's not herpes 
it might be that it's just already 
drying up you know if you don't get it 
in the first 48 72 hours you're gonna 
get a false negative so that's not 
helpful and if someone has no sore well 
I don't have anything to culture and yes 
we can do a blood test for herpes but 
that blood test is going to be positive 
if you ever had a cold sore on your lip 
ever so yeah yeah so you know again 
um we don't do herpes blood tests 
routinely for women who want an STI 
check because we're going to get an 
awful lot of positives that may just be 
for from a former cold sore there are 
certain circumstances we do do it like 
pregnancy and all that but in general we 
are not doing routine testing for for 
herpes so in my clinic if someone comes 
to me and they are asymptomatic and they 
just say I would like a screen for 
sexually transmitted infection what I do 
is my general basic screen is I do 
gonorrhea chlamydia 
syphilis hepatitis HIV 
and then uh that's that's kind of my 
basic screen and is that even a fraction 
of sexually transmitted infections no 
but those are the ones that we see most 
commonly and uh you know that we want to 
know about but it's not like I'm saying 
if that's negative 
you're not going to give them anything 
or her anything because we also you know 
know that there are other things the 
other thing also to keep in mind when 
you when you ask for that STI screen 
unless you've only had vaginal exposure 
don't forget about getting other places 
screened you know if you've had oral sex 
and you're concerned about having gotten 
oral gonorrhea 
um or you know you you need to you're 
looking horrified Bella 
um they can't see this but I'm telling 
you 
issues yet which was my 
was mine's day here we are seeing um a 
huge increase in anal cancer you know it 
used to be that I mean not animals I'm 
sorry anal intercourse 
um 
we are seeing we are seeing a huge 
increase in in anal sex and it was 
always kind of the convention that if 
someone was having anal sex of course it 
was a gay guy because they have anal sex 
well that's simply not true we know that 
in uh heterosexual couples there's a lot 
of anal sex going on for a variety of 
reasons some is because people have just 
found to be very pleasurable 
um the others because they're avoiding 
pregnancy 
um and the others because maybe they're 
not really thinking of it as having sex 
because it's not the bowel definition of 
sex just saying but the point is is if 
someone has had anal sex well then you 
need to tell your gynecologist that you 
would like a swab of your rectum as well 
because you can be harboring gonorrhea 
hepatitis all of that can be in the 
rectum so when you're thinking in terms 
of STI screening it might be a little 
bit more comprehensive than maybe what 
you were thinking 
interesting so it's a swab so you swab 
the vagina 
what you're testing for okay so so for 
gonorrhea and chlamydia it's a cervical 
swab like a Pap test basically 
depending on which layup someone is 
using sometimes they can do it all at 
the same time from the same swab those 
tests can also be done on the urine and 
that's really important because a lot of 
people for a variety of reasons are not 
going to have a gynecologic exam or they 
want to just go to their internist who 
may not be equipped to do that and you 
can get a gonorrhea or a chlamydia test 
from a urine sample it's not quite as 
accurate but it's still you know 
definitely appropriate some things are 
blood tests for example syphilis is a 
blood test hepatitis is a blood test HIV 
is a blood test 
um you know rectal swabs again it 
depends what you're looking for so it's 
really very much test specific and and 
it's funny how when I give people the 
menu and and they'll pick and choose 
what they want and I don't know what 
they're basing it on like a lot of times 
someone will say well while you're down 
there you know do a screening us do it 
all do it all and I'll say okay well I 
can do gonoring chlamydia and they'll go 
yeah yeah do that and then I'll say okay 
then we've got to draw your blood for 
and then you know list all the stuff and 
they'll go no that's okay I'll just do 
the gonoring committee and I'm like okay 
if you know those aren't the most common 
things but if that's what you want okay 
so it's it's always interesting to me 
what people have on their menu of STIs 
that's interesting so you typically 
would say a good an STI screen if you're 
asymptomatic and you just is 
don't have a known exposure to something 
yeah right and just curious if you're 
testing for five everybody can test for 
different things how many STIs exist and 
maybe that's just a crazy question is it 
500 
um it's about 60. 
um okay it's about 60. because if you 
define an STI as something that's 
transmitted sexually even if we don't 
think of it as being sexual per se 
um that counts as an STI so when you 
look at the list it's really long 
there's also sexually Associated 
infections so as an example 
um bacterial vaginosis is a very common 
form of vaginitis in women that causes 
vaginal discharge it's the most common 
cause of vaginal discharge you have 
normal vaginal discharge and it's not a 
sexually transmitted infection I want to 
be clear on that bacterial vaginosis is 
not sexually transmitted however it is 
an associated with sexual activity both 
women having sex with women and women 
having sex with men and it really has to 
do with the change in the microbiome in 
the environment from exposure to a new 
partner so that's one of the things we 
see that a lot with people that have 
oral sex with new partners sharing sex 
toys we see this a lot new with with two 
women so 
um you know so there's both sexually 
Associated and sexually transmitted 
another sexually transmitted infection 
which is quite common that women don't 
think about is something called 
trichomonas trichomoniasis which is 
causes a funky vaginal discharge and of 
course every time a woman gets a vaginal 
discharge she thinks that she has a 
yeast infection and because the yeast 
medications are available over the 
counter people go off and they buy all 
these yeast medications and then the 
infection doesn't get better and it's 
not because the medication wasn't good 
it's because they were treating the 
wrong thing 
um because it might be a bacterial 
vaginosis it might be a trichomoniasis 
which is a sexually transmitted 
infection so you know there's there's a 
whole laundry list of things that people 
don't know about that that may cause 
problems but I also I want to Circle 
back a little bit to symptoms because we 
didn't really talk about what you know 
what's a symptom what what could mean 
an infection and one of the things that 
a lot of times people aren't thinking 
about is spotting because if someone has 
an infection that has caused an 
inflammation of the cervix or of the 
vaginal walls they're going to spot and 
of course people automatically think 
well maybe that's you know breakthrough 
bleeding from my birth control or maybe 
I have an IUD and there I go it's 
spotting again and in fact if someone 
has had a new partner and they're 
spotting 
um that's a red flag to get in and and 
get a screen for a sexually transmitted 
infection because it may well be 
um that that is specifically because of 
an infection we also when we talk about 
discharges and there's so many different 
causes of discharges and certainly 
um you know yeast is not the most common 
bacterial vaginosis is but a lot of 
these infections will cause a discharge 
there's something that we describe as a 
muco purulent discharge which I know 
sounds really inviting 
um and this is just kind of a mucousy 
[ __ ] looking discharge that sometimes 
has some spotting in it it may or may 
not have a little bit of an odor but 
again it's a red flag get in and get 
tested and a lot of times a woman will 
come to me and because some people are 
feeling shamed about having sex or 
having unprotected sex from listening to 
people who tell them not to have sex for 
a long time that they don't want to 
admit that they dance 
I'm shaming you now Bella 
um but what happens is they won't tell 
me that's what they want they'll just 
come in and they'll say 
so how's everything look down there down 
there I'm like everything looks fine why 
just wondering how everything looks down 
there and because I think they think 
that I'm going to you know number one be 
Clairvoyant and know that they need an 
STI screen and number two that that's 
what they're worried about and then if I 
don't see anything and if there are no 
symptoms it doesn't mean you don't need 
a screen because again most of these 
infections 
um are asymptomatic so 
um and a lot of times people you know 
that they feel like they have to give me 
some kind of explanation you know like 
make a quail you know and it was a 
really nice guy 
all you need to say is Hi there I'd like 
an STI screen please I am not going to 
ask you any questions Beyond do you have 
any symptoms or is there a particular 
thing that you're worried that you were 
exposed to that you'd like me to test 
for you know I don't care if you had sex 
with the whole football team that's your 
problem Bella it's not my problem I just 
want to know man well I want to know if 
it was consensual I mean that's a 
different story and we can talk about 
that later but I'm talking about if 
someone is having consensual sex with 
whoever I make no judgment I really 
don't I just want to make sure that I am 
screening you to keep you safe to make 
sure that if you have something that I 
can you know get you the proper 
treatment as quickly as possible 
okay I got that that's great that's 
awesome so I think that gives us a 
tremendous education on the fact that I 
mean just you know be careful out there 
and get yourself tested get your partner 
tested for these STI screens and now 
Lauren has told you the minimum of what 
should be involved if you're 
asymptomatic and just get on the same 
page with your partner or Partners again 
no judgment here we're talking to 
everybody and uh and and go from there I 
think 
um 
you know I we got a lot of questions I 
posted a sticker on Instagram for you 
guys to ask some questions and I think 
that 
um let's get to some of these and 
there's a lot of questions here about 
orgasms from women do they get harder to 
come by as we age should I use toys do 
women have trouble reaching orgasm the 
older they get so can you explain give 
us the lowdown on the Big O yeah 
um that is my next book by the way I as 
I have a number of books and I've 
started a series now my books are 
directed towards post menopause women 
but quite frankly any woman would 
benefit because the information is 
amazing a lot of this stuff is for all 
age groups but so my first book Is Slip 
Sliding way turning back the clock on 
your vagina and that really is 
specifically for women who are no longer 
making estrogen and having difficulty 
with urinary symptoms and vaginal 
symptoms and all that my second book 
halfway as hell is again really directed 
A post-menopause because as that's when 
they have hot flashes but the third book 
that I'm working on is called putting 
the O back in your mojo and it's a guide 
to orgasm and 
um the inability to have an orgasm is 
actually the second most common sexual 
complaint that is seen in sexual 
dysfunction clinics so if you are having 
trouble out there you are not alone you 
are not only one 
um and this is something that is 
absolutely fixable now there's two 
categories of difficulty with orgasm 
category number one is someone who's 
never had an orgasm ever ever ever ever 
and then category two is someone who has 
had orgasms just fine and then something 
happens to make it go away so when we 
talk about category one which is quite 
common women who've never had an orgasm 
um in in those cases sometimes there is 
a medical or biologic or hormonal 
problem but in the overwhelming majority 
these are are women who need a map to 
their clitoris because they have the 
expectation because no one has ever 
explained otherwise to them that they 
are going to have an orgasm during 
intercourse and then they don't and they 
think that there's something wrong with 
them as opposed to it is normal it is 
normal to not have an orgasm during 
intercourse unless there is clitoral 
stimulation at the same time and in fact 
only about 20 percent of women orgasm 
during intercourse so 
so what we know is that when someone 
comes in the clinic and says she's you 
know 20 30 40 years old and she comes in 
because she's never had an orgasm and we 
always do an exam to make sure that 
she's neurologically intact but 
everything and atomically is just fine 
and all that is good and then if that's 
the case then we actually sign that 
woman up to have some sessions with one 
of our amazing wonderful sex therapists 
who really kind of do the Deep dive into 
understanding what it takes to have an 
orgasm 
um in terms of maybe their cultural 
background their religious background is 
their history of abuse of trauma all of 
those things can impact on the ability 
to have an orgasm that are have nothing 
to do with someone's physical ability to 
have an orgasm and this is you know so 
treatable so treatable now the second 
category are women that used to have 
orgasms just fine and then something 
changed and then when they're doing all 
the things they it used to work before 
suddenly it's not working well what 
would cause that 
um 
there's a there's a long list but one of 
the things that we see particularly in 
young women is women who are input and 
antidepressants you know ssris 
um are obviously very very helpful and 
life-saving for a lot of people but the 
ssris can cause sexual dysfunction they 
can cause a decrease in libido and in 30 
percent of people they can cause the 
loss of orgasm so this sounds bad but 
I'm going to give you the good news a 
couple of the good news is number one 
for a lot of people it's temporary and 
for about 30 percent of that 30 percent 
that lose their ability to orgasm it 
gets better on its own with time 
um getting used to the SSRI right as 
right as the longer they've been on it 
it gets better so if someone comes to me 
and said I was put on an SSRI two months 
ago and I can't orgasm I tell them if we 
do nothing there's a 30 chance that it's 
going to come back so let's just wait it 
out a little bit and see what happens if 
it doesn't come back then we have a 
number of options 
number one is sometimes decreasing the 
dose this is not a do-it-yourself 
project you know you have to work with 
the person that prescribed it to see if 
maybe you can go down a little bit 
because it does seem to be dose related 
sometimes you can even be switched to a 
different antidepressant we know that 
some of them are not likely to do this 
like Wellbutrin is a popular one that 
does not have this sexual problem but 
let's say you are in that category of 
person that says Nope I need my SSRI to 
function I can't go down on the dose 
nothing else works for me I've been on 
it for a year and I can't have an orgasm 
what do I do well interestingly this is 
one of the subsets of people that Viagra 
Works in and Viagra of course is used to 
treat erectile dysfunction in men but in 
a number of studies it has been shown to 
help women specifically women who lose 
their orgasm because of an SSRI and so 
we do prescribe it off label and again 
this is not a do-it-yourself project you 
know but the dosage is different there's 
certain things you need to know but it 
actually it actually works pretty well 
um in most women when when we look at 
women who aren't able to orgasm 
um but it's not an SSRI thing that 
they've lost their ability to orgasm 
there are a lot of reasons that that can 
happen and just to make a sweeping 
generalization in order to have an 
orgasm you need a few things one is you 
need to be aroused if you're not aroused 
you're not going to have an orgasm 
that's why you know when we look at 
things like non-consensual sex when 
someone gets raped or something like 
that and these you know don't even get 
me started on people who think that 
that's in any way pleasurable because 
I'm just going to rip my hair off I will 
too but 
um but you know there's there's no way 
if you are not aroused that you are 
going to have an orgasm if you are with 
a partner that you don't like who is 
abusive or who you haven't had proper 
stimulation you're not going to have an 
orgasm unless you have a really vivid 
imagination and you you know pretend to 
someone else I mean seriously that's 
what a lot of women do they kind of 
Disconnect and they kind of go into to 
Fantasy Zone and that makes it they're 
married to someone who they don't like 
um you know people have all kinds of 
things they do to get around but the 
point I'm making is that you need to be 
aroused in order to have an orgasm when 
you look at other requirements and I do 
have a podcast on this by the way and 
you know it's all about orgasm 
um in terms of the requirements and how 
to have an orgasm so I go into a lot 
more detail in that and I do have this 
book coming out but but the other thing 
that needs to happen is 
um it's all about sensation you have to 
the you know the clitoris has 8 000 
little nerve endings and if those nerve 
endings don't fire well not much is 
going to happen well what makes nerve 
endings healthy blood vessels do so 
people that have vascular disease 
diabetes 
um you know other vascular problems even 
with aging sometimes with different 
medications those blood vessels are not 
going to be as healthy which means the 
nerves aren't going to be as healthy so 
what we do in the clinic of course when 
we find that that's the case is we do 
things to increase blood flow there's a 
lot of things we can do to increase 
clitoral blood flow 
um and then sometimes we increase 
sensation so my point is is that there 
are solutions and and one of the things 
I rail about is that when I talk to a 
big group of women you and I are always 
out from the world talking to these big 
groups of women and I'll say okay you 
know there's a thousand women in the 
audience and I'll say okay when you went 
to the doctor last time 
um did they ask you about your sexual 
function or are you know are you 
sexually active and every hand goes up 
right and then I'll say okay did your 
doctor ask if you were having any pain 
or problems with sex leave your hand up 
and you know eighty percent of the hands 
go down and then I'll say leave your 
hand up if your doctor asked if you were 
able to have an orgasm there's never one 
single hand in the air you know unless 
you were coming to someone like me or to 
a sexual medicine clinic yeah the 
chances that your doctor is actually 
going to ask you about your ability to 
have an orgasm is slim to none wow and 
you'll mentioned when we see people who 
are really at high risk where diabetics 
are with multiple sclerosis or you know 
other medical conditions which are going 
to inhibit that pathway to pleasure you 
know no one's asking about it so you 
assume they're not asking because 
there's no Solutions they're not asking 
about it because they don't know the 
solutions but there are those of us that 
do there are solutions and if you get 
nothing else from this whole thing I 
just said it's that if you are having 
difficulty with having an orgasm 
we can help you you know this is not 
something that you have to accept this 
is one of those things that more often 
than not more often than not we are able 
to help in that circumstance isn't that 
great for those of you who think that is 
my problem I'm taking a sip of water 
give me a minute I'll give you a minute 
but the other thing also of while you're 
drinking water I'll just keep talking 
because that's right please do you do 
that well for me 
you know is that sometimes it's a 
clueless partner you know we talk about 
a woman not having them after her 
glitter so that when the guy needs it 
needs a map as well there's a book I'm 
going to hold it up even though this is 
a podcast 
um but it's called becoming clitorate 
I don't know I love that with the c not 
becoming illiterate becoming Twitter 
it's written by Laurie Mintz Dr Laurie 
Mintz who's amazing and I am um actually 
I have scheduled to do a podcast with 
with Dr Mintz um which probably will not 
be out there until November December 22 
but I'm very excited for that 
conversation but her book is really 
um hugely hugely helpful for men and 
women to read in terms of really 
understanding female sexual function and 
what it takes for a woman to have 
pleasure because you know it's not like 
your mother told you you know right or 
it's not like his mother or her mother 
told her I don't know you know we're in 
a society where it's all about male 
pleasure and in fact there was a book 
written by Lisa Ornstein 
um girls in sex When She interviewed 
hundreds and hundreds of young women and 
teenagers about their expectations about 
being sexual and it was all about his 
pleasure it was never these were 
heterosexual girls and was never about 
you know their pleasure and then when 
you have sex ed for those of us that get 
sex ed it's all about not getting 
pregnant it might be about STI 
prevention but very rarely in Sac said 
does anybody talk about pleasure or 
specifically female pleasure 
so you can't blame women for not knowing 
and people are like okay but mothers 
should have this conversation with their 
daughters and my response always is yeah 
but someone's got to educate the mothers 
first that's right 
I mean did your mother sit down and talk 
to you about uh no yeah she just tells 
you don't have sex until you've been 
exclusive for how long until you have a 
ring on your finger right yeah 
um speaking of orgasm another question 
that came in from someone in our 
audience it says he won't wear a condom 
due to his performance issues what 
should I do about STDs I'm a woman 
yeah 
um well let's first of all let's get rid 
of the myth that a condom is going to 
prevent STDs STIs because a condom a 
male condom covers the penis it does not 
cover the scrotum it does not cover the 
perianal area it does not cover the 
mouth it does not cover the thighs and 
these are all areas where herpes can 
live HPV can live Etc so let's get rid 
of the myth that if he wears a condom 
you are protected but having said that 
wow just wow oh my God we'll go back to 
that but let's talk about the guy who 
won't wear a condom so we we see this 
mainly there's kind of two groups of 
guys that refuse to wear condoms one are 
older men that that truly do have 
difficulty maintain an erection if they 
put a condom on and one of my podcasts 
with one of my favorite urologists Dr 
Rachel Rubin is called need to know 
information about the penis in your bed 
and and we talk quite a bit about that 
guy the guy who cannot use a condom who 
can't maintain Direction and and what 
the fixes are for that 
um in in young guys sometimes it's they 
even young guys have problems 
maintaining an erection not for the same 
reasons necessarily 
um they have a lot of problems with 
premature ejaculation and and the condom 
um you know can sometimes just get in 
the way of the whole thing and then we 
have some guys who just quite frankly 
it's all about them and yeah exactly and 
then 
which I mean at least this guy is 
telling her he doesn't want to wear a 
condom so that she can protect herself 
we've all heard of stealthing which is 
the guy who puts the condom on and then 
right when he's about to go inside he 
slips it off which is you know after her 
knowledge which first of all is not only 
rape and sexual abuse it is also illegal 
in some states 
um 
that is illegal so you know that's 
that's really scary stuff but but for 
this woman I mean this is obviously 
decision time you know because this is 
the guy that's going to say even if 
she's using I'm not going to talk about 
pregnancy we'll assume that she's using 
her own birth control because women just 
have to take care of themselves right 
but um you know even if he says I've 
been tested for everything when we've 
already established there's no such 
thing and so if he's not willing to use 
a condom it's really just decision time 
now there is a female condom 
um and a lot of people are not aware of 
it it's called the fc2 condom and what 
this is is this isn't you can get it 
over the counter and it is a sheath that 
goes inside the woman's vagina that 
there's a ring that goes on the outside 
that covers the vulva and the beauty of 
the female condom is that it actually 
protects better than a male condom 
because not only does it a sheath so 
that you don't get exposure to his penis 
but it also means means that your vulva 
is covered so that you know you're not 
going to get that skin to skin and if he 
is going to give her oral sex with the 
female condom on and we'll talk about 
some other protection options as well 
but there's also you know there's 
there's that the the female condom has 
never really caught on most women have 
not heard about it it has been around 
for at least 10 years 
um it's actually used more in other 
countries one of the reasons that it 
that it hasn't gone on is first of all 
it's a little not very but it's a little 
bit Yeah you got to practice it takes 
two or three tries until you can easily 
get it in 
um but women don't like using them 
because of the appearance you know you 
basically have a ring hanging out of 
your vagina it doesn't decrease 
sensation it's made out of surgical 
glove material so you can feel just fine 
and the ring actually sometimes presses 
against the clitoris so some people say 
there's even enhanced sensation but 
it's really more about the appearance 
and it's a little bit cumbersome to use 
so but that is if he truly refuses to 
wear a condom 
um that would be her best bet in terms 
of having intercourse and avoiding an 
SCI 
is one more effective than the other in 
preventing STIs male or female condoms 
or female the female condoms of all 
those are worth more okay got it um got 
it got it and tell us about it and and 
it won't roll off oh yeah sometimes the 
male condom can roll off if he comes out 
and doesn't you know hold the base of it 
Etc so 
and he can't take the female condom off 
from that and you not know what I'm just 
saying you have the woman every time the 
woman has control things go much better 
right I mean that's in life in general 
in life right and of course 
um well Talent you were telling me and I 
was listening to some of your podcasts 
to prep for this episode tell us about 
this newfangled amazing thing these 
these panties that are protective and 
look cute and just tell me about these 
things so these are um latex panties for 
women to wear to protect while they are 
either 
um giving or receiving oral sex so this 
is not for penetrative sex because 
they're panties but basically these 
panties they're called Laurels 
um and they are FDA cleared for 
prevention of sexually transmitted 
infections which is pretty recent wow 
and yeah and so basically the woman 
wears these Laurels and while she's 
wearing them she can receive oral sex 
which means that if she has an infection 
in her vagina or on her vulva she won't 
give it to the person giving her oral 
sex and if that person has something on 
his or her mouth like herpes 
um they can't give it to her so it is 
protective for oral sex it is protective 
for anal play 
um and they're really catching on 
because people are looking for 
protection for for oral sexual 
encounters because there really hasn't 
been anything you know and for a woman 
to use because you've heard of dental 
dams but you know have you ever known 
anyone who's used a dental dam other 
than a dentist and not to mention it's 
kind of cumbersome it's a sheet of latex 
that you're supposed to spread over your 
ball and hold there well that sounds 
like fun so this is really 
um a workaround for that and they're 
disposable so it's a one-wear thing but 
but definitely 
um you know if women want to have sex on 
their period they want to have oral sex 
while they have their period if they are 
using some kind of medication if maybe 
the guy has a scratchy beard I mean the 
list is actually pretty long of 
circumstances that women can have more 
pleasurable sex oral sex if they are 
using these panties so that's kind of a 
cool new innovation that is cool so 
let's say you want to start with oral 
but then end with you know traditional 
intercourse you could just slide them 
over or take them off like it was a 
normal pair of underwear you got it 
right good old-fashioned style stand up 
around your ankles yeah they're they're 
black and they have um an L on it in 
pink which is very very pretty and so 
when I did my podcast on on safe sex 
about this and I was talking about it 
and of course I decided that the L was 
for Lauren and that every you know that 
you could get them with a B on it for 
example and I was interviewing the CEO 
of the company who told me sadly that no 
the L is not for Lauren it was for 
morals but I like to believe that the L 
is for Lauren 
that's amazing so so awesome 
um I think and you know talk I I love 
your general statistics that have come 
from your surveys tell us I don't think 
we can ever hear too much about waxing 
lasering pubic hair tell us about this 
and if women so many women that I work 
with at Smart dating Academy have come 
out of divorce or maybe they've never 
had sex or they haven't had sex with a 
new partner since 1983. what do they 
need to know about the land down there 
and what's appealing to men well first 
of all the land down there is a very 
obviously private area 
um I I will start by saying that there 
is a biologic function to pubic hair 
there's a reason that people have pubic 
hair and while in the you know hundreds 
of years ago I was to keep the genitals 
warm before central heating now we don't 
in general need that unless your heating 
goes out or you're having sex outside 
but um but the major benefit to pubic 
hair is it provides lubrication and it 
decreases friction so you don't get 
those nasty Rock Burns but having said 
that for a number of years now the style 
has been less is more and you know it's 
I got to tell you about yeah I'm a 
gynecologist obviously some liquid 
women's vulvas all day long and I barely 
notice other than to say that that I 
really right now see it all you know a 
lot of people it's completely bare a lot 
of people have a little landing strip a 
lot of people just trim and some people 
do absolutely nothing and never have and 
it's all normal it's all good it's all 
fine you know this is this is personal 
preference but the survey that you're 
talking about is you know the question 
always is do you do these things for 
yourself or do you do it for someone 
else and does that person really care 
and so 
um I did a survey where I asked a lot of 
different questions as you know because 
we've talked about it before but one of 
them was to men what is your preferred 
pubic hairstyle was multiple choice and 
yeah for women 
yeah yeah but it was it was right what 
what is your preferred hairstyle for a 
woman this was for male female sex what 
is the guy's preferred hairstyle for the 
woman he is having sex with and the 
choices were you know completely bare 
Landing Strip trim or full Bush and 
um and basically oh then the last Choice 
was I don't care I just want to be 
invited to the party and and that's what 
most guys said is they really didn't 
care 
um trimmed came in second actually so I 
I think that you know for women who 
think that all these guys want your 
vulva to look like you're a 
nine-year-old girl that is not the case 
some guys I can't speak for all men 
certainly some of them like that 
everyone has personal preference but 
this idea that you have to remove all of 
your hair in order to be sexually 
attractive is simply not true one of the 
things that that I've noticed 
um a lot is that it's the young women if 
they if someone's going to be bare it's 
young women and it's not necessarily 
women who are having sex it's kind of 
the whole idea of if you shave your legs 
if you shave under your arms that you 
should shave your your vulva as well and 
um it's you know that didn't used to be 
the case and I keep thinking that it's 
going to turn around you know hairstyles 
change on your head they they change 
down south as well 
um but I'm still seeing plenty of women 
who remove it all 
wow and no issues it's just personal 
Cosmetics I mean the friction issues 
um there is one sexually transmitted 
infection that is more common it was 
funny because I wouldn't say they feel 
cleaner that it's cleaner but it's not 
cleaner you know if you it's like saying 
you're affecting your hair well it's 
like saying that if you had to shave 
your head in order to have a queen scalp 
you know if you wash your vulva with you 
know mild soap and water quite frankly 
just water you know you don't need to 
remove your hair to be hygienic but 
um there's an infection called molluscum 
contagios some have you ever heard of 
that one yes yes and that's essentially 
to another example of a sexually 
transmitted infection that people don't 
always think about it happens to be more 
common in women that um remove their 
pubic hair I don't know why but 
um yeah maybe yeah anyway so 
um there's so when you look at the 
downside the downside is that there is 
more chance of rug burn friction and all 
that because you lose lubrication but 
the real downside isn't having removed 
your pubic hair it's how you remove it 
um NYX Cuts Burns we've seen it all so 
um some people get little red bumps no 
matter what they do we see a lot of 
chemical burns from those hair uh you 
know those the pillars those lotion 
there yeah oh God don't put that on your 
Volvo we see people that try and do you 
know do it yourself waxing and they just 
the wax is too hot and they burn I mean 
you you can figure that out I mean 
there's just a lot of things that can 
happen and you just want to be careful 
oh god oh wow wow wow wow so to wrap 
this up give us you mean you don't want 
to hear any more about the disasters 
that can happen oh my God I Was Made I 
was making a silly little joke in my 
life to wrap it up you know what I mean 
like wrap up you know when so usually 
this one anal sex because we talk about 
the perfect ending oh oh tell okay let's 
do it let's talk about I guess we're not 
wrapping it up yet before we let's talk 
about it 
let's talk about you know top or bottom 
just kidding 
so so this is the thing with anal sex 
and then there is a lot more of it 
um the vagina is meant to be a two-way 
passage penises are supposed to come in 
babies are supposed to come out the anus 
is meant to be a one-way passage it is 
nothing is supposed to be going up there 
and it's not made for it meaning that 
vagina has nice stretchy accordion-like 
tissue to accommodate a penis and the 
rectum doesn't and in addition the 
rectum has this little muscle the 
sphincter so what happens if someone has 
anal sex men or women 
um is that we see sometimes that there's 
an increased risk of stool incontinence 
because of damage to that muscle there's 
increased risk of infections because the 
tissue can get torn we see problems as a 
result of anal sex so this isn't a 
judgment thing you know I don't care you 
know where someone wants what someone 
wants to sexually I'm just taking it 
from the point of view of medically what 
are the risks and and there are risks 
and in addition to the fact that people 
often don't get screened for for anal 
STIs for rectal STIs and we're seeing an 
increase in anal cancers these anal 
cancers are HPV cancers that are 
generally a result of sexual activity so 
if you choose to to have anal sex 
there's a couple of things that you need 
to keep in mind number one is you do 
need to use protection you do need to 
use a condom just as you would for 
vaginal sex number two is you do need to 
get screened for sexually transmitted 
infections with a separate swab the swab 
that you have from the vagina is not 
going to be enough number three is um it 
obviously needs to be consensual but 
it's not that obvious because a lot of 
women do it and really are not all 
gung-ho because they have a partner 
who's insistent and who wants to do it 
and they go along with it even though 
it's not something that they find to be 
pleasurable and I am just saying please 
do not agree to do things that you don't 
want to do and that are not pleasurable 
for you but if this is something that 
you want to do you need to make sure 
that you take it very very slow that you 
use a lot of lubrication and listen to 
your body if it hurts a lot then you 
have to stop because if it hurts it 
means that there's a chance that 
something is getting damaged that 
something is getting torn and some of 
these things can cause long-term 
problems so this is just a cautionary 
tale I'm not I'm not you know probably 
for me to tell you not to do it but I 
think like everything else you have to 
make an informed decision before you do 
something and then decide if the risk is 
worth it to you exactly and I love what 
you said listen to your body it pain is 
usually a sign of something that's wrong 
right and we didn't talk about painful 
sex today and we won't get into this 
there's a whole other topic other than 
for me to say you should never have pain 
with sex if you are having pain with sex 
there is no you know bear there's no 
tough it out there's no I thought sex 
was supposed to hurt sex is never 
supposed to hurt and we can fix that 
okay well 
ladies and gentlemen if you heard that 
and if you are having painful sex which 
I hear a lot of people saying it burns 
it's hard 
do you have any a couple sentences you 
want to give us around painful sex oh 
well you know the thing about painful 
sex is obviously I run a sexual medicine 
clinic we see everyone has this idea 
that we are seeing older women the the 
women over the age of 50 generally in 
the menopause Clinic the the women that 
we are seeing in our sexual medicine 
clinic are in their 20s their 30s their 
40s the majority of them are coming to 
us because they're having painful sex 
the majority of them we are not the 
first second third or fourth opinion we 
are the fifth sixth or seventh opinion 
and my message out there is number one 
you should never have pain with sex and 
number two if you have not been given a 
solution from your doctor it doesn't 
mean that there isn't a solution it just 
means you need to see someone who's an 
expert in this and obviously I'm in 
Chicago but there are sexual medicine 
experts in every Big City I wish I could 
say that they were in every small town 
they are not but sometimes you have to 
travel 
um and we have Telehealth now and I 
always say that Telehealth doesn't 
really work very well for sexual pain 
because it's one of those situations we 
really really really need to examine you 
um but but sometimes we can get a lot 
just from taking a history and um in 
fact 
um I have a a wonderful podcast on 
pelvic floor PT physical therapy which 
is when the muscles clamp down when you 
have pain because of vaginismus and talk 
about how even sometimes that can be 
done virtually so we have Solutions this 
is not something you should ever put up 
with and you are not alone 
oh I love that what a great way to truly 
wrap it up top to bottom we covered it 
all about them yeah we covered it all 
top to bottom no puns intended so we 
didn't get to we didn't get to foot pain 
with orgasms we'll talk about that next 
time that would be tough well maybe we 
can also talk about foot fetishes at 
that time oh God we can do yeah I did 
have I think about speed is that you and 
I both like shoes and that has nothing 
to do with sex we just like shoes right 
I did have a woman who went on a date 
with a guy years ago and he looked at 
her feet and he's like I just want you 
to know I have a foot fetish and she's 
like oh hahaha he's like no really and 
she just wanted to go on a second date 
with him so just saying right remember 
people need to earn your story and on 
that note 
so much for being here I know we'll have 
you back again and again because you are 
amazing in every way so thank you 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
foreign 
ERS welcome back to this week's podcast 
you know every now and then you go to a 
party and you don't know that you're 
going to know many people and so this 
fine day in Chicago I was invited to a 
gathering and I drove about 78 minutes 
in traffic to get to this beautiful 
woman's house and I walked in alone it 
was like what I have you guys do with 
single people walk into an event alone 
and just say yes to the invitation and I 
met this very Charming woman named Elise 
and we got to talking and she's also a 
coach and she said to me Bella you need 
to know my brother he is a celebrity 
stylist he's in New York and his name is 
Andrew so I am so happy and humbled that 
Andrew gelwix has decided to join us 
today as a celebrity stylist on this 
podcast to tell us all of the things 
Andrew welcome to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast 
thank you Bella I'm so excited to be 
here we're super excited to have you 
well you know just start out and tell us 
about 
how do you become a celebrity stylist 
like tell us you tell us your story 
you know it's so funny because and I I 
just talk about this with people who are 
interested in being and being a stylist 
and wanting to enter fashion and it's 
there's 
the good there's a good and bad answer 
to this and that is that there's no one 
way to become a stylist 
um you know I almost like wish there was 
a way like to become a doctor you know 
you go to undergrad you go to med school 
you know all the steps whereas with this 
you know people are have past careers 
and they enter into styling so for me I 
used to work in editorials I worked in 
magazines I was at GQ and then 
um I went to Teen Vogue where I was 
doing celebrity booking 
um so I kind of combined 
the entertainment aspect and the fashion 
aspect and uh kind of bridge that 
together into working with uh 
celebrities on their fashion 
okay so let's dig into that that's so 
that's amazing but I'm sure there were 
like certain moments like what what was 
your moment what was that inflection 
point where you're like I'm gonna do 
this 
I mean it's one of those things where I 
grew up in Ohio I would always steal my 
mom's Vanity Fair magazines because I 
would love to look at all the red carpet 
photos and all the Glamorous actresses 
and their beautiful dresses and that was 
always something that 
you know was a kind of a fantasy for me 
but also being from being Ohio it almost 
it really felt like a fantasy 
um you know it wasn't a thought of mine 
that oh that's actually a career path 
that could you could have 
um but really I got to college I went to 
school at a small private school in 
Indianapolis and 
they kept talking about internships and 
I was like you know why I think this is 
a potential career path I have no idea 
what this entails but I'm just going to 
email my resumes to all these fashion 
places and see what happens and when I 
got responses it was that it was kind of 
this light bulb went off where I was 
like 
wow this actually is a possibility there 
is a career path here and through that I 
just kind of followed it to which led me 
to styling 
okay got it so you were doing GQ you 
were doing Teen Vogue like was there a 
person like at that moment like when did 
you decide to Spring out on your own 
like I think with so many entrepreneurs 
including myself there's sometimes 
there's one moment or there's a couple 
of moments and sometimes you only know 
what that moment is in retrospect you 
don't ever it's like oh I intentionally 
created this moment it's like you have 
your oh and you take a chance and 
you take a leap and that happens did you 
have one of those things it's like you 
have this background you're doing 
celebrity bookings your GQ your Teen 
Vogue like how did it come to be did you 
have your first celebrity like what 
happened 
uh you know I was doing this celebrity 
booking and then I was doing kind of 
just as a fun little hobby I was doing 
styling on the weekends I was I would 
email modeling agencies and I would say 
hey I'm Andrew I I would call myself a 
stylist even though I wasn't 
um I mean I'm a stylist if any of your 
models need help styling photo shoots 
for their portfolios I would love to 
work with them and I started doing that 
a few times a weekend 
um and it throughout the week that's 
what I was looking forward to and it 
really kind of hit me that this is what 
I should be doing 
um you know there was so there wasn't 
necessarily one 
moment or one instance that really 
pivoted everything but kind of that 
accumulation of realizing this is what's 
exciting me oh totally and that's 
exactly what I was gunning for okay so 
now you start to find the juice in your 
life the passion you're like this is my 
heartbeat this is what I want to do oh I 
love that okay so you're doing models 
you're helping to style photo shoots and 
now you know I I tell us about your 
Evolution how did you get to and just to 
lay it out there who are some of tell us 
the long list of amazing celebrities 
that you work with and then we'll back 
up as to how you got there 
so I've had a really amazing 
um 
they've had a lot of opportunities 
towards amazing women 
um a lot of the clients that work risks 
are they when they really range in age 
but uh Catherine O'Hara from shit's 
creek Susan Sarandon that middleware 
um uzo aduba from Orange is the New 
Black so it's it's really you know kind 
of 
little little Andrew from Ohio is always 
like what is happening right now oh my 
gosh that just gave me goosebumps and 
so 
so now okay so listener you see this you 
know Andrew is is the shizzle so now 
let's go back and how do we get to the 
Chisel so now you're styling photo 
shoots as you know kind of a side hustle 
to your hustle and so what was your 
first kind of break 
I started working with this model 
um she was oh gosh she was a young 
teenager then 
um and she was having some success and 
she needed a little help with 
um events that she was going to and that 
really was a huge game changer for me 
because it pivoted from doing photo 
shoots to doing real moments like red 
carpets and things like that and so 
through that I was able to develop kind 
of a portfolio 
um and you know obviously she was this 
young beautiful model and from having 
those opportunities I was able to 
translate that to working with actresses 
and you know uh other more established 
women 
that's amazing and 
wow and when you started working with 
this model like or when you start 
working with people in general do you 
ask them like what is your personality 
what do you want to exude like tell me 
about your process I'm so fascinated by 
the beauty that you create 
all sweet I mean I think it's similar to 
probably what you asked as well when you 
start when you meet with a client I 
think in order for me to do my job I 
need to tap into 
them as a person uh because I can only 
see what I see you know from their 
Instagram or from past red carpets or 
things like that but it's really also 
about what are they hoping to do what 
are their goals what are they wanting to 
portray do they haven't in the past 
um and really kind of figuring that out 
so I can then translate that into what 
designers would be best for them to be 
collaborating with and things like that 
so it's there's very much so uh 
hopefully a conversation when I begin 
working with somebody got it and do you 
find yourself Andrew doing kind of an 
evolution for people like I'm like let's 
say it's me I'm Bella and this is 
typically what I do but I would like to 
be this 
or is it more and or is it more here's 
who I am and I just want to be 
consistent with that or is it both 
because it sounds really exciting I 
think there's I think it's both I think 
it just depends on the person I think 
it's really exciting when you get to 
have that opportunity to kind of do a 
little bit of a pivot 
um and take someone maybe who has you 
know who's a really established name and 
people think they know what to expect 
from her and then she shows up and it's 
something totally different for her and 
then you kind of are on this journey of 
showing her in a new light I mean I 
think that's like a stylist's dream to 
be able to do something like that right 
just to show different facets of this 
person or that they can block all these 
different kinds of looks yeah just like 
oh I wasn't expecting that you know 
that's that's the fun part about fashion 
you know if you watch the Oscars and 
you're like oh wow I wasn't expecting 
that that's exciting not like you don't 
want to hear like oh yep expected that 
right right there she is in her red 
dress again exactly exactly 
I often say that my wardrobe now 
especially for appearances it looks like 
organized Skittles like it here's all 
the red here's the yellow here's the 
orange and the green and the blue so 
right so very jewel tones 
I mean don't get me wrong it's good to 
know what looks good on you it's nice to 
have your your Staples but I think it's 
also nice to kind of give people a 
little surprise now in them oh yeah I 
absolutely love that and um 
who can you like when you're working 
with you know let's say Bette Midler 
compared to you know like a Sarah 
Jessica Parker or Catherine O'Hara like 
what have been some of your favorite 
moments 
I think you know one one of my favorite 
people to collaborate with is Catherine 
O'Hara 
um who doesn't love her I mean I mean 
she not only is the the loveliest 
kindest person but 
um you know she's someone who I think 
really has a lot of fun with fashion 
um and I think that as a stylist that 
just makes my job even more enjoyable to 
see someone who really doesn't take it 
too seriously and just like wants to 
have fun and you know play with it 
um I think some of the looks we've done 
over the past few years have been some 
of my favorite 
that's awesome and did you style her on 
the show as well as off now okay I I 
wish I had but 
um the people who had the costume 
designers on shit's creek they deserve 
all the credit in the world they I mean 
they nailed that so well obsessed 
obsessed obsessed 
um that's awesome so she's one of your 
favorites and so if you were you know 
looking at if you were talking to you 
know different single women you know 
across the board you know could be and I 
know it's a hard question because 
there's different ages and we look 
different and we're all you know we're 
all our own special snowflakes but I 
think something especially being single 
is we all always want to make sure that 
we're feeling our best and looking our 
best and we give people you know ideas 
of what to wear for their photo shoot 
like what's going to look best in static 
photography and that can translate into 
what they're going to wear for a date is 
there any you know what's one of your 
favorite tips that you could give to 
virtually anybody let's say if you were 
writing back for voger for GQ or Teen 
Vogue again like you know some styling 
tips that can up just about anybody's 
game 
the one thing that I tell all clients 
and tell everybody and I hope this isn't 
a cop-out answer but I believe in it 
wholeheartedly that the one if you could 
only do one thing it is invest in a 
tailor 
oh good one love that exploring is 
everything there is nothing worse than 
saying that's ill-fitting and the right 
tailor I mean that can transform 
anything to fit you perfectly to make 
you feel more confident I mean I I just 
think the the power of some of tailoring 
something to your body is the utmost 
importance I mean I the tailors I work 
with I I trust them completely and I 
just think it can totally make or break 
uh any look and I think that 
trickles down to what we wear to dinners 
or lunches or on dates it doesn't need 
to be a red carpet to you know have 
something like that I mean 
these are things these are the kind of 
like the big moments in our lives that 
we want to look good in so we're going 
on a date we want to make sure that that 
little black dress is you know hugging 
you perfectly or those jeans are 
tailored really nice and you know 
whatever it is 
um I just think a good tailor is my 
biggest biggest fashion tip 
um I love that and here's one thing I 
can add to that is if you're thinking 
get something tailored but then also I 
think for women especially and I've made 
this mistake doing shows like we think 
we're going to be standing up the whole 
night right so we get things tailored 
but now realize think about how else 
you're going to be in that outfit are 
you going to be seated are you going to 
be seated on a high stool so kind of 
know your use case also when you're 
getting something tailored and when 
you're gonna wear that particular piece 
to a particular event yes and we could 
what I do is we do the sit test so I 
think they're doing a talk show or 
something well it's going to be scene 
sitting down primarily so let's let's 
take a seat let's look at it from the 
waist stop let's see how it's folding in 
the stump like you know you have no it's 
like know your audience kind of uh know 
your audience for that for that dress or 
whatever you're wearing 
that's awesome and I'm just I'm looking 
at your background and there's all these 
shoes tell us about what you have going 
on like what's a typical day in your 
life you manage multiple high-profile 
personalities for multiple events that 
I'm guessing could be a luncheon all the 
way to the red carpet like what is a 
typical day in your life look like 
you know it's like one of my favorite 
things about this work is that every day 
is so different 
um you know some days range from just 
like everybody else being at their desk 
emails phone calls doing things like 
that to bopping around the city to 
different clients to do fittings to get 
them ready for their events uh being on 
photo shoots 
um so kind of that there's no typical 
day which I really like 
um and it kind of just keeps you on your 
toes yeah I totally get that and do you 
for individual clients do you have 
specific places that you shop or do you 
kind of vision board out like hey I 
think I'm gonna do this for your outfit 
like how do you typically do it or it 
sounds like the world's kind of your 
oyster I am all about a mood board I 
love a good word I think you know for me 
visuals are everything especially when 
you're talking about you know fashion 
because I've had if people are you know 
I've had people say I want something 
really sleek and Chic and to me that is 
a very specific I I know I in my mind 
that's one image I have the exactly idea 
of what that is but they could be 
thinking of something totally different 
so I say 
all right totally get it let me let me 
mood board this out for you to make sure 
we're on the same page 
um because 
you know I don't want to show up with my 
version of sleek and Chic and they're 
like what is this this is not what I had 
in mind 
um so I love a good mood board and then 
from there Translating that into which 
designers which stores which Outlets 
have pieces like this 
how incredibly fun that's true like when 
you say sleek and Chic I would 
automatically My head goes to Black 
right something right you would think 
you would think sleek and Chic is like 
New York black right or Chicago black I 
had an instance where someone said I 
want 
uh what was the word they used like uh 
princess 
and uh which to me is 
you know like kind of like that 
printable bomb princess to them it was 
something totally different so I was 
like all right we're gonna mood board 
this out to make sure we're on the same 
page here right I mean princess to me 
could mean Tiara and sparkles and 
rhinestones and tutus and I'm all about 
all of that by the way uh for the record 
right love or I guess it could be 
Princess Diana 
you know what I I I'm here for both I 
just want to make sure we're on the same 
page so getting that cohesive vision is 
what I'm all about so if I said to you I 
want to be a princess yeah what would 
you do for me 
[Laughter] 
I mean to me I go to tools so I think so 
then I think about okay so what 
designers have really big tools are we 
going to go like Jean Bautista Bali are 
we gonna go Tony Ward is it Oscar de 
laurenta 
um you know it's there's so many 
different Avenues you can kind of go 
down and play with 
wow wow and what a fun job and are you 
always looking for new designers oh 
animals new designers send them my way 
please I am always hunting for new 
designers I I think there's nothing more 
exciting than to Showcase new designers 
on the red carpet and give emerging 
artists you know kind of Spotlight 
um I think it's you know it's very 
rewarding and I think it's really 
exciting to kind of show different 
voices and to give other people that uh 
red carpet that opportunity no that's 
amazing that's so that's so 
benevolent I can't speak today and 
speaking of you know kind of you and 
bringing your voice out there and and 
helping people to become their best 
selves you wrote a book called the queer 
Advantage tell us about this I love this 
so I uh the clear Advantage I wrote it 
it came out in October 2020 and it 
actually just came out on paperback uh 
last week I think congratulations thank 
you 
um but really it's about I interviewed 
51 of some of the most successful 
inspiring leaders on how being queer 
positively impacted their career 
um I think for me myself and so many 
other people uh the conversation is so 
primarily focused on the negatives and 
the hardships and the struggles of being 
clear and you know as as important as 
those conversations are it's not the 
full story you know there's so many 
amazing things about being queer uh and 
that's kind of what I wanted to Showcase 
in this and probably you know 
specifically how it that translated into 
our professional lives so well oh and 
did what did you find were there were 
there commonalities across and I think 
you interviewed people like athletes 
CEOs just all over the map so I'm so 
curious everyone from Billie Jean King 
to Barney Frank to Margaret Cho 
um 
Michael Kors Boy George 
um but you know it was what's so 
interesting is that there were 
absolutely worth some similarities and 
overlap between uh people but really 
each person had a different 
interpretation of what the queer 
Advantage is 
and I think that was one of the most 
exciting things is because everyone 
everyone's interpretation was really 
unique to that and their own lived 
experience 
were there a few that stuck out for you 
and what would yours be 
I mean one that really stuck out to me 
um he's one of my favorite musicians 
he's this really young amazing uh artist 
named Troye Sivan his his songs on all 
the radio stations he's amazing uh but 
he was really talking about 
um the kind of the connective tissue 
between creativity and being queer and 
how growing up because he felt isolated 
he really relied on his creativity and 
that was kind of uh his outlet and that 
really resonated with me 
um and so I think that's one that really 
stuck out to me for sure 
got it got it got it and what and I know 
you referenced being young and looking 
at your mom's Vanity Fair magazine so 
what is did that play into your answer 
as well 
I mean for sure it's you know I think 
um you know even as we were talking 
about earlier when we're having 
conversations with clients like one of 
my career advantages is being able to 
connect with people I think on a more 
intimate level and I think a lot has to 
do with being queer and kind of having 
to 
um dig deep to find that connection with 
people 
um but you know I think a lot of my 
creativity was definitely stemming from 
when I was younger and uh looking 
through all the fashion magazines and 
kind of building up that fantasy of what 
that life could look like 
interesting and do you remember I'm I'm 
curious when you have an athlete like 
Billie Jean King did was it similar was 
there that you know sense of kind of 
being more isolated feeling different 
which leads to creativity like did you 
find any differences between Career 
paths 
um 
I don't know if there was a difference 
in I think the differences in career 
paths it was interesting uh more so in 
terms of the age gaps 
um because I think the difference in 
Generations dependent on what their 
careers were 
um really how you could highlight the 
differences there 
okay between ages yes between ages yes 
oh wow and and what inspired you to 
write the book 
I mean it it was honestly almost out of 
like selfish reasons that I wanted to 
have these conversations I was curious 
to know the answers 
um and you know I I really just felt 
like there was nothing out there that 
talked about the positives and I think 
that that's so important 
um not not just for queer people but for 
parents of queer people and you know I 
think 
um to show what their child's lives can 
be 
um so I wanted to create that I love 
that so much and so did it wasn't Time 
Magazine didn't Time Magazine call your 
book one of the 50 most potentially 
influential books of the year 
yeah one of the most anticipated books 
of the Fall so that was 
um 
that was that was a nice little moment I 
was very happily surprised about that 
oh my gosh and tell us what do your 
parents do how did they produce someone 
so amazing 
my parents uh are lawyers and they are 
the best most unbelievably supportive 
parents 
um they could not be more happy and 
excited about the queer advantage and 
you know you mentioned my sister Elise 
earlier they've you know 
all of them are so supportive and they 
support Elise so 
um we're I'm very lucky you're a family 
of creatively entrepreneurial amazing 
people amazing people and do you have 
any you know if we can manifest it out 
in the universe they call me the Fairy 
Godmother of dating so I always have a 
wand here so if we could manifest like 
who who would be some dream people that 
you would love to style 
oh my goodness 
um I would love to you know I I love 
working with women who are just 
Unapologetic who are immensely talented 
at whatever it is they're doing 
um so I think of you know in terms of 
like actresses I think of uh women like 
Meryl Streep or younger I think Elle 
Fanning is one of the best actresses of 
Our Generation 
Um so you know people like that who 
really have a strong a strong voice 
um and our mentally talented absolutely 
okay well we're gonna put it out into 
the universe Maryland 
yes if you're listening to the Smart 
dating Academy podcast which you should 
be listen to my friend Andrew and uh and 
he'll he'll definitely set you up so do 
you have any parting fashion advice for 
us as we re-enter or enter the dating 
world this winter like how do we just up 
our game we're all going to have new 
tailors but is there anything else you'd 
like to is there anything else you'd 
like to impart to us 
um you know what I think 
I think what I try to tell people is 
just have fun with it 
um just try to have fun with fashion 
um it's yes it's obviously a 
very functional tool but it should be 
fun and don't take it too seriously and 
I think when it comes to dating it's you 
know when I was dating I loved seeing 
what people wore on their first date or 
a second dates you know I think it's it 
shows so much of who you are 
um and to show that show your 
personality 
um whether it's you know whether he 
shows up in a suit and tie you know 
that's very indicative of his 
personality or if it's you know a really 
bright colored pull-up whatever it is 
you know I think 
um it's it's nice to see that so I think 
um 
have fun with that have fun with it and 
okay so you reference dating tell us 
about how you met your partner 
we met on Bumble oh online dating 
everyone did you hear that even 
celebrity stylists use online dating I 
tell you this all the time and I know 
they're all going on I know online 
dating I have to do it and so what made 
your partner's profile stand out to you 
and how did he feel showing up to a date 
with the celebrity stylist like what was 
his moment 
I don't I think he could have cared less 
he you know he jokes that he has the 
better fashion sense of us 
um but you know I think he I think he he 
was he came from he came straight from 
the office so he was wearing a suit and 
tie 
um but 
um you know I I don't really remember 
the profile honestly 
um I just I I do remember being very 
impressed with his outfit though I will 
say that because it was I don't think I 
had been on many dates where someone 
came up in a suit showed up in a suit 
and tie 
um and we had we're going to say a 
casual Mexican restaurant but he showed 
up in a suit and tie and I remember 
being very impressed by that 
okay ladies and gents you know what I 
always say about dating step up your 
game you look like you're the man with 
the plan look like you respect yourself 
and look at what happened look it he 
showed up 
in a suit right to a casual Mexican 
restaurant and you weren't like oh he 
looks like he's trying too hard you were 
like oh game on super impressed you know 
what here's my thing maybe he was even 
coming from the office and he just said 
that so you could wear a suit and look 
good 
it doesn't really matter it doesn't 
matter 
I wouldn't be able to tell a difference 
so maybe just say yeah oh sorry I'm this 
whole thing I'm just claiming from the 
office you know what I mean like show up 
looking good 
oh my gosh next time I'm gonna go out on 
a date maybe even with my husband I'll 
just be like in sequence looking like a 
princess I'll be like oh this whole 
thing I just I came from the red carpet 
I yes right exactly how he's not gonna 
know it's fine right and as long as you 
look good he doesn't care nope he's not 
no one cares no one cares just have fun 
be yourself have fun with fashion and 
don't be afraid to try different things 
is what I'm hearing from you right 
explore different things personality 
surprise people so and age does not 
matter people some people say oh I've 
been I you know I am this age this is 
what looks good on me I'm gonna keep 
doing this 
it's 
no what looks good but also try 
something new you know there's always 
room to play 
um and I think that is that's one of 
hopefully one of the biggest takeaways 
oh I love that and you know you don't 
have to necessarily try something new if 
you've been nominated for an Oscar you 
might want to you know but you know as 
most of us maybe aren't in that boat at 
this point try something new and maybe 
try it in a low stake situation right 
maybe take a photo and add it to your 
Bumble profile and see how people 
respond to it but have fun be creative 
but most importantly it's really 
important that you feel like you look 
great in what you're wearing yes feel 
good about it feel good about it you are 
such a love I wish I could just pull you 
through the screen and give you a big 
hug this has been so fun and I feel like 
I have a little more Sparkle and I'm 
going to take half of my wardrobe to the 
tailor right now and I hope for all of 
you listening you're feeling the same 
way at this point as I have my as I have 
the sleeves folded under on my leather 
jacket I've been caught here so time to 
go to the tailor so in fashion loved 
Andrew seriously thank you so much I'm 
going to put a link to your book in the 
show notes and congratulations on all of 
your success being a kid from Ohio and 
doing what you're doing now I couldn't 
be more proud to know you and thank you 
for sharing your story with us oh thank 
you for having me 


when you go through menopause you change 
and it's a perfect time to renegotiate 
your relationship when the kids are gone 
when your last one leaves perfect time 
to renegotiate their relationship begin 
with what do I want to feel in my most 
intimate relationship start with the 
feeling and then you can back into how 
do I want my partner to help me 
experience that feeling how can I offer 
my partner that same feeling like if 
it's love appreciation desire Adventure 
spontaneity all the things that we were 
talking about any of that like how can I 
offer that to my partner and how can my 
partner offer that to me and let's open 
up that conversation cuz they are not 
going to be able to read your mind not 
even after several decades they're just 
not that magical 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back I hope I hope 
you've had an amazing week and this has 
been a really special week for me 
personally because for those of you who 
might have been following me on Facebook 
or Instagram you know that May 17th Andy 
my husband and I celebrated our 26 year 
wedding anniversary 
26 years can you believe that I can't 
believe that so what we thought we would 
do was based on a gift that Andy gave to 
me last year on our 25th anniversary and 
it was called secrets from 25 years with 
the perfect maid and it was so so 
special 
um we clearly didn't get to it on our 
25th anniversary so we added one more to 
the list but what we want to share with 
you truly is people ask us all the time 
like you guys got married so young 
you've made it work for 26 years so we 
sat down and really thought about things 
we thought would help you whether you're 
single whether you're out there dating 
whether you're in a new relationship to 
really think about how a great 
relationship can function and how you 
can do your best to be the best partner 
maybe to yourself right now as you're 
out there dating you can be the best 
partner to new people that you're coming 
across in the dating world or great 
partner to the Future love of your life 
the lid to your pot and I'm so excited 
to have my dearest lid to my pot the 
only lid to my pot Andrew Anna cone here 
with me welcome to the podcast I can't 
believe this is your first time on I 
don't think it's the first time on I 
think I've been here before you've not 
been on the podcast oh we've done the 
Instagram live that's right we haven't 
done I've not done the podcast well I'm 
happy to be here and crazy and by the 
way just wanted you to know I called you 
perfect in that in that thing from last 
year so here we are we're just off of a 
photo shoot that we did to commemorate 
the anniversary that was Bella's idea it 
was a great idea uh and uh she looked 
phenomenal oh all these years and so 
here we are you guys see you want to 
partner that sees the best in you and is 
affirmative I mean we were you know kind 
of 
thinking about what was an experience 
that we could do to really make this a 
special anniversary again kind of drop 
the ball on the 25th anniversary right 
but that's what a good partner does they 
forgive you should have done so right 
exactly so now we did it this year but 
if you can one thing I would tell you to 
do is do a photo shoot you know whether 
it's with yourself your family your 
friends we don't do these things enough 
and while it seemed like it was a little 
bit of a pain in the patootie to get 
ready and to do it and for those of you 
who haven't seen the photos 
um we'll post we'll post a page on the 
website so you can actually see our love 
story and the inspiring love stories but 
we wore the same clothes that we wore 
for our wedding well actually I wore my 
wedding dress Andy had a new suit 
because he's smaller now than he was 
then so that suit wouldn't even his tux 
wouldn't have fit him and we just had 
the biggest blast just dressing up and 
running all over Chicago and doing 
photos and so what I can tell you is 
that do this for yourself okay do a 
photo shoot for yourself if you're in 
Smart dating Academy of course you come 
to our studio and you do our photographs 
but it's such a rewarding experience 
it's not often that you and I are on the 
other side of the camera having somebody 
direct us and take pictures of us and it 
was so fun and it's great memories and 
I'm really glad that you brought it up 
that that was such a a wonderful memory 
for us what was hilarious is there we 
are walking down the street you and your 
wedding gown the original wedding gown I 
might add and we kept getting 
congratulations everyone would look at 
us say oh thinking we're getting married 
for the first time someone even ran out 
of a door and gave us glasses of 
champagne to come commemorate which was 
kind of funny uh but I guess that's what 
happens when you walk down the street on 
a Tuesday afternoon in a wedding gown 
yeah y'all I had no idea walking out I 
got into an Uber X in a white dress and 
this dude looked at me like lady do you 
what's going on here when I got out of 
this Uber people it I didn't realize how 
how you sort of stop all traffic around 
you when you're walking around randomly 
by yourself without an Entourage and a 
long white dress so yeah kind of funny 
um but an amazing experience so what we 
want to tell you guys today like I said 
is maybe we're gonna save the seven to 
ten things that really have made us 
stay together you know besides being 
committed to our commitment right and I 
think that that's such an important 
thing we of course through 26 years of 
being married and we were together four 
years before we got married right that's 
30 years so you can imagine we've 
weathered some high highs we've also 
weathered some low lows and as Andy's 
showing us the 26-year photo for for 
those of you you can't see this maybe 
you'll be watching it in the real but 
um we've had some high highs and we've 
had some low lows also you know we you 
know lost a pregnancy at 15 weeks and 
had to go through an excruciating 
procedure to to you know remedy that and 
it was brutal and even during those 
darkest days when you think you'll never 
smile again and the tears never stop 
flowing going and you weather those 
kinds of tragedies when you are together 
and you turn inward towards each other 
you can make it through those through 
through those 30 years right so the 
first thing you wrote on your list let's 
get back to this is what well let's 
let's take a step back first of all why 
did I put this together last year and I 
think we're by the way this year I had a 
26th which we'll get to in a minute but 
why did I put this together I think the 
reason I did is at a meta level I 
realized that over all this time being 
married 
uh we've learned we've learned a whole 
lot about what it takes to be a good 
partnership and I've learned a 
tremendous amount about how to be a good 
partner and uh and I realize that over 
over the years there are all these 
lessons that have come into my mind and 
it just seemed to make sense to put it 
all together and put it all in one place 
uh so that I can relearn it and keep it 
top of mind and teach our kids the those 
learnings Etc and so that's really why I 
did it and you know it was 25 things 
that that I thought were really made the 
difference when in any relationship and 
certainly personally for us and the 
first one is marry your best friend and 
for those who don't know our story that 
is in fact what we were before we got 
married we were best friends uh really 
through high school and even in college 
uh and then something clicked and and 
there we were but that has made all the 
difference uh because it's not just 
about the you know the fairy tale 
romance it's really about being each 
other's best friend through thick and 
thin the ability to talk to each other 
about anything about life about 
philosophy about 
business uh about friendships and other 
friendships and really that's at the 
root of everything and so that was 
clearly the first the first one what do 
you think yeah I I couldn't agree more I 
mean I've told this story probably 
multiple times on this podcast how did 
we get together right I we Andy the the 
good part of knowing each other through 
high school and colleges we have no 
skeletons so he knows you know the 
various revolving tour of characters 
that I dated or I don't know we should 
put she's shaking his head right now 
dated in quotes maybe temporarily dated 
long-term dated some were great 
everybody gets some Mulligans some were 
not so great and and I 
kind of got my own mental house in order 
my senior year of college you know as I 
had dated enough people that gave me 
butterflies you guys know has devoted 
podcast listeners what I have to say 
about butterflies everybody that gave me 
butterflies in my stomach when I dated 
them ended up you know putting me flat 
on my back staring up at the ceiling 
going how the hell am I in this much 
pain all over again so I realized the 
people that gave me butterflies aren't 
good for me and who are the people in my 
life that make me happiest right and it 
was the first person I would call in the 
morning the person I would tell 
virtually anything to about anything 
that was heavy on my mind anything that 
I was celebrating and the person that I 
would either close down the bar with or 
talk to late at night and I realized 
that he was the first elevator person 
that I identified in my life so in 
addition to saying marry somebody that 
is your your best friend or could become 
your best friend you know we talk a lot 
about elevator people at Smart dating 
Academy so really understanding what 
that is for you somebody who elevates 
you who lifts you up who makes you one 
thing they make you happy right and 
that's really I think marry your best 
friend Marian elevator person but I 
think that a truly deep connected 
friendship is the root to any long-term 
relationship including a romantic one 
yeah and you know I certainly went 
through my own cast of characters 
through that time and it you know as we 
were best friends we would counsel each 
other on each other's significant others 
right it was It was kind of hilarious 
and we learned a lot about each other 
even through that process and you know 
for those who have listened to Bella 
talk about uh dating and what it takes 
to be successful and all of that one of 
the best ways I think she says to talk 
about how you know when when it's when 
it's right is it just feels easy the 
relationship feels easy and I think that 
is what really brought us together at 
that first point is that there we were 
best friends 
starting to develop romantic feelings 
for each other and it felt natural and 
it felt easy and it was really the great 
Foundation but of course that was only 
the beginning from there we've had 25 
years 26 years now of a relationship and 
it's not just it's just not just falling 
in love and getting together but now 
it's about living together and building 
a partnership over time and those are 
the remainder of the 25 things that I 
wrote last year right and you know Andy 
and I were talking about this before we 
before we hopped on to record this 
podcast is so many people think that 
marriage and relationships you know are 
about dating somebody great on paper and 
these relationships ultimately it's like 
I want someone who makes a lot of money 
I want someone who has a c-suite title I 
want someone who's 20 years younger than 
me and a lot of these relationships that 
we're seeing now at our age as our kids 
are getting older a lot of these 
relationships are breaking up and ending 
in divorce right now and having these 
relationships that become more 
transactional where you lose the 
friendship right that is really 
um that is really can be the death now 
to any relationship so think about this 
as you're out there dating is this 
person that you're dating do you feel 
safe with them is it easy can you tell 
them what's heavy on your mind what you 
want to celebrate because that is 
ultimately what's going to stand the 
test of time and that kind of brings me 
into the second point that Andy wrote on 
this beautiful list it's actually Point 
number 12. so we're just skipping around 
here for your best benefit and skipping 
the ones that are more personal for us 
but what he wrote was believe in each 
other's integrity and intention 
and for those of you again who have been 
following me for a while you know that I 
always say in any relationship before 
you go back to your triggers before you 
start spewing out Venom 
assume positive intent from the person 
that you're with and this is so crucial 
in any relationship you're in but 
especially your romantic relationship do 
do you think the person that has chosen 
to say I do to you or chosen to share a 
bed with you chosen to make a life with 
you do you think they want to hurt you 
if that if you do think they want to 
hurt you then maybe this is a really bad 
relationship for you but really think 
about that does this person want to hurt 
me no yeah it really applies to any 
relationship like you just said I mean 
we've all received sort of a bad a bad 
email from from our boss right at some 
point in time and then you think well 
wait what is that and a lot of times the 
wrong response is to immediately respond 
and react out and react uh and 
oftentimes people say look take a minute 
reflect about it let your emotional 
grounding take root and then go back and 
and respond in a measured way in the 
right way and when you're talking about 
your your long-term partner 
uh romantic partner boy the wrong thing 
to do is start off assuming bad intent 
you really should always think about 
positive intention and really think 
about that because all it does is create 
a heartache and and bad bad action 
especially this this can come up early 
in a relationship where you just maybe 
got together or just got married and 
you're still learning about each other 
it's easy to bring those those demons to 
the table but know that 
you're together for a reason and it's 
all positive and to that point and this 
is really hard to do in that moment 
right especially when somebody hurts 
your feelings ask that person wow 
um after you assume positive intent and 
say when I saw that look on your face it 
made me think you were angry at me when 
you sent me that note it made me think I 
did something to annoy you did is is 
that a story I'm telling myself did I 
get your intention correct give the 
other person the benefit of the doubt 
before you to some extent you guys where 
you bring your past to your present okay 
I grew up in a household we didn't talk 
about feelings my family is really close 
now my parents were immigrants you know 
and they weren't raised by parents that 
had them talk about feelings so in our 
house either you shouted at each other 
you fought or you stonewalled and you 
shut down and you dealt with it on your 
own so this whole talking about your 
feelings in a constructive way giving 
people the benefit of the doubt not 
bearing things this was all new to me 
these are skills that I learned in this 
marriage and obviously through you know 
becoming a better leader at Smart dating 
Academy as well and you really have to 
understand where did I come from right 
and if you know you've got to turn that 
mirror in towards yourself and this is 
one of the most important things that we 
can do in any relationship is most of us 
can turn that mirror outward you did 
this you did that you had bad intentions 
here you hurt me here but if you 
actually take that mirror and turn it 
180 degrees and you put it on yourself 
what was my contribution to this did I 
give this person the benefit of the 
doubt did I put my dukes up and punch 
this person in the face right what what 
are my wounds what are my triggers and 
if I can tell you as a corollary to that 
assuming positive intent and believing 
in each other's Integrity examine 
yourself put that mirror back to 
yourself and you've got those triggers 
you've got those wounds believe me I've 
got a whole bunch how about you oh 
completely yeah they're all there and 
yeah what you're saying is exactly right 
you start with understanding it's really 
about taking yourself out of that 
situation and not letting any signals or 
triggers uh push the conversation or the 
conflict in the wrong direction instead 
it's about contextualizing everything 
truly as you say understanding yourself 
and what you're bringing to the table 
and then enabling that conflict and that 
discussion to move on the merits for the 
right reasons and the more you do that 
intentionally the more it really pays 
off in dividends and I'll tell you what 
you guys when we first got married there 
was no Playbook we were young kids in 
our young 20s we didn't practice a lot 
of these things we didn't come into this 
you know stage about how to be married 
heck you're a finance person I was 
running a manufacturing company at this 
point we made all of the mistakes we've 
used all of the harsh words right the 
household I grew up in it was okay to 
blow up and explode that's what I was 
used to and I started to realize your 
words are like knives right you can say 
harsh words they will never ever help 
you and you know what they do they leave 
scars on your partner's skin why do that 
right really examine your own responses 
and be honest with yourself and if you 
need help around those get the help do 
the work the way to get a great partner 
is to be become a great partner 
now let's move on to the third point 
that you circled on here Andy said 
although your life Partners or dating 
partners or boyfriend girlfriend or 
girlfriend girlfriend whatever you are 
you need to be individuals too tell us 
about this what that is is a recognition 
that we're we've come together and again 
as as Bella just mentioned these are all 
things that we didn't know when we first 
got married but oh hell no earned over 
time yeah that's also why I wanted to 
Chronicle all these in that in that note 
to you last year 
but this is a recognition that we really 
are individuals at the same time as 
we're partners and that is a really 
important thing because what I've seen 
in others uh not work out well is when 
one or the other are only focused on the 
other person and not really focused at 
all on also actualizing themselves but I 
think one thing that you and I have done 
really really well over over time is is 
help each other become better humans 
individuals and by doing that it's 
actually brought us closer together 
certainly I've done that with you 
building your business you've done the 
same thing with me building mine and all 
of that has been really really 
productive and it's a spillover effect 
that uh it unwittingly helps the 
relationship get better too 100 I mean 
some of my darkest days were between in 
2006 and 2009 where I left my career at 
axon Nobel and it was a great career and 
I unplugged and I wanted to do this but 
I didn't know how to get there and there 
were some pretty I called those years 
the dark years and walking through that 
dark tunnel and finally when I emerged 
from the tunnel and I stopped worrying 
about failing and I stopped worrying 
about my God what if the state coaching 
thing doesn't take off what are people 
going to think about me if I fail and I 
found that conference to attend for 
dating coaches and matchmakers Andy was 
the first person who said to me he's 
like invest in it Go and it cost me you 
know thousands of dollars to go do that 
I didn't even have a business card right 
but I wanted to kick the tires and see 
if I could do this and he's like of 
course you're gonna of course you can go 
go do this see if you want to 
be a dating coach and as soon as I came 
home from that weekend you all know me 
when I go into something what happens 
you're all in I'm all in I go deep and I 
just keep digging I'm like a dog with 
the bone and from that day on in October 
of 2009 that was the birth of Smart 
dating Academy but really understanding 
that I needed to carry my own weight in 
those dark years Andy did the best he 
could to help me and to encourage me but 
I had to realize I'm an individual and I 
have to pull my own weight and I have to 
do the things that make me happy and 
while he could support that he couldn't 
single-handedly make me happy as good of 
a husband as he was for those three 
years I had to do my work and remember 
that I am an individual and a partner in 
this relationship and ultimately I am 
responsible for my own happiness and I 
knew 
I'm happier when I'm working I'm a 
better wife I'm a better Mom I'm a 
better daughter I'm a better friend when 
I have an outside Pursuit outside of my 
house so you have to realize that you 
have the responsibility for your own 
individual happiness and think about the 
opposite of this right think about when 
one of the two partners is not in a good 
place uh what does that really mean well 
what that means is that other person is 
not confident that person is falling 
that person is you know may even fall 
into depression all these kinds of 
things right and so the the the future 
and the success of the partnership 
really needs to rest on two solid 
Pillars of Strength and then from there 
you can go off and build a good 
partnership but if you don't have that 
if one of those pillars is is not strong 
then it can it can lead to it can 
threaten the entire relationship right 
and so what I've realized is it's really 
important to help each other be those 
strong pillars individually because that 
is what really drives success yeah 100 
and you want to help strengthen your 
partner But ultimately again turn that 
mirror back to yourself your partner 
cannot do everything for you they can 
support you they can want you to get 
better they'll lend you a hand to get 
out of the well but ultimately you've 
got to take the hand and you've got to 
be able to do the work to get out of the 
well so always remember that the 
stronger your individual selves are the 
stronger your relationship will be 
let's move on to the next one next one's 
about conflict it's a good thing to know 
that we never fight uh no no conflict 
whatsoever here oh my God hold on the 
lightning is gonna strike the liar who's 
sitting next to me 
well what I wrote here was really 
something simple it's not broad although 
it definitely reflects all conflict but 
it basically says never escalate an 
argument that's hard 
it is really really it's hard it's 
freaking hard especially when you've 
been together for 30 years and you guys 
we basically we've known each other 
forever so do you think we know each 
other's hot buttons do you think we know 
what each other's pain points are ABS 
freaking lutely and do you think it 
takes restraint sometimes when you are 
hurt to not go to those places 
absolutely and the key thing and I think 
that we've been better at this for the 
last 10 years I mean look 
let's Andy and I come from incredibly 
different backgrounds culturally 
religiously 
um you know just parentally our parents 
are so different are and we bring these 
two incredibly different ways of being I 
am the product of my nature and my 
nurture he is the product of his nature 
and nurture and how he grew up and how I 
grew up and if you don't think that 
there's conflicts when you put two 
people together to navigate two big 
careers two teenagers a house it's it is 
a pipe dream to think that you will not 
have conflict yeah you'll always have 
conflict every day you'll have conflict 
hopefully not every day but some days 
there's some right right but some 
conflicts are small like what do you 
want to do do you want to go out to eat 
or do you want to stay home right well I 
want to stay home well I really want to 
go out to eat right those are little 
little C conflicts but then there are 
Big C conflicts right and we all know 
what those are where we're worried about 
money where we're worried about aging 
parents where we're worried about what 
our teenagers are doing and how they're 
grading on the last molecules in our 
body and these conflicts can be brought 
up by other people in our lives right 
right and now what does it really mean 
to not escalate a conflict I think what 
that means and you've taught me this 
what that means is sometimes you know 
sometimes a conflict is is very very 
pressing and you have to get to it right 
away but most most of the time the 
conflict just exists in The Ether and 
the best thing to do is take a step away 
take a step away allow things to settle 
allow 
yourself time to reflect on what's going 
on what Demons back to an earlier Point 
what demons are we each bringing to the 
table 
and really get to the core of what's 
going on and take the emotion out of it 
and the time often allows for that to 
happen and if you rely on the earlier 
point we made that really let's believe 
in each other's integrity and intention 
it allows you to take these steps in a 
better way because the argument when you 
don't believe in the intention really 
would go out would spiral out of control 
because you don't know what they're 
getting at but if you really come back 
to that earlier point this is about the 
best intentions you can get to a better 
place 
here's the here's an easy thing to do 
yeah we have conflicts right and 
sometimes it's you know our kids aren't 
home for curfew when they say they're 
going to be and one of us like well 
let's just forget about it how can we 
forget about it and at the end of the 
day whatever is the pebble in your shoe 
just 
have a rule where anybody can press 
pause and you know the goal is not to be 
right the goal you'll never if your goal 
in an argument is to be right and to win 
you will lose the relationship 
the goal is to resolve the conflict and 
to make each other whole and to feel 
better and to figure out a best path 
forward the goal is not to be right when 
you find yourself wanting to be right 
you've got a knife in your hand and if 
you're going to argue at all costs to 
prove that you're right 
you're going to lose the relationship 
and is that what you want press pause 
and I will say this and I'm probably the 
big pause caller in this family would 
you agree out of the four of us oh well 
you've taught us all about about this 
and I think it's really been productive 
and again it didn't start on day one no 
no but I think that's something that you 
have brought to the table 
um and I think what you're also talking 
about you you made me think of yet 
another I'm going to add another one 
that we're going to talk about today 
that wasn't on our list it was your 
equal partners and the reason I bring 
this up is your point a second ago about 
wanting to be right I think oftentimes 
there's a dynamic in relationships where 
people are aware of the power Dynamic 
and if I give in here I'm going to lose 
power and if I lose power I'm gonna not 
get my way going forward and it's a very 
very destructive way to think about this 
if you think about yourselves instead as 
equal Partners in this relationship it's 
a lot of responsibility there but it 
also means that you are sharing the 
power and that's really what you want 
you don't want this to be a one-sided 
relationship you want this to be equal 
and that plays into all this as well 
that's super correct I love that I'm 
glad you brought that up so just press 
pause have a rule in all of your 
relationships you can use this even in 
your friendships right when somebody 
starts when an argument starts to get 
heated just say hey you guys you know 
what let's take a break from this 
conversation right now and in our house 
when we take a break from something we 
leave the room I physically will leave 
the conversation my family Jane and Max 
and Andy know if I'm leaving and I will 
say guys I'm gonna take a pause from 
this conversation I'm not quitting 
Pooler heads will prevail and I walk out 
of the room sometimes it takes 20 
minutes sometimes it takes a few hours 
but what it does is it really events 
escalation and those awful words and it 
has brought down the temper of our 
household dramatically in fact last 
night we were out to dinner for our 
anniversary we took everybody out my 
parents Jane and Max my brother my 
sister-in-law and my mom asked my kids 
what do you think has made your parents 
marriage successful for the last 20 
years and Max said you know what they're 
both really open-minded to each other's 
ideas and Jaden our 19 year old said 
they're really patient with each other 
right and that's so interesting to me I 
would have never guessed that that's 
what they would have said right and so 
but I think it's a testament to the fact 
that we work on this relationship you 
guys we weren't handed a magic wand and 
we weren't handed this magical life 
right we work at this we picked Partners 
where ultimately we are each other's 
best friends where the relationship 
overall is easy but there are hard 
things and that's where the work starts 
yeah and it's interesting what the both 
of them said because in some ways what 
they both said was really getting at the 
same issue from different angles right 
it's about you know being patient and 
open-minded is really about just having 
a 
an orientation that you want things to 
work and that you want things to succeed 
and what you're not trying to do is is 
one-up each other or drive power or 
conflict you're really trying to get 
along and it's an active choice and I 
think that's it was interesting to hear 
that they perceived that just from our 
daily interactions that's right that's 
right and 
um you know let's let's cycle to the 
next one and you say 
don't get trapped in the everyday 
and I think that's this is something 
that probably applies more to a longer 
term relationship than a new one a new 
one is really about the romance and the 
newness and and all of that but as you 
have a longer term relationship 
you realize that you know you're not 
just building a romantic partnership or 
friendship you're actually building a 
life together and there's a lot that 
comes along with that right it's like it 
is a business right and you are joint 
venture Partners in a sense of you're 
running a domestic partnership running 
this whole Enterprise that is called 
life and there are a lot of 
responsibilities that have to do with 
that it is keeping things clean it's 
keeping things organized it's Financial 
it's all of it's legal it's all medical 
the relationships there's so many 
aspects as you all know because you run 
your own house and you have kids if you 
do and or you have parents you're taken 
care of or whatever else and there's 
you're taking care of other everyone's 
taking care of some other living thing 
as well maybe it's a dog 
uh and you have that responsibility as 
well and what I'm getting at is it is 
easy to fall under the Trap of managing 
the business of life and 
lose sight of that core thing that 
brought you together which is that 
friendship ultimately and having those 
conversations with each other and you 
know people talk about date night and 
here's the here's the fallacy with date 
night I think what Andy's saying right 
okay everybody every couple should go on 
a date night once a week okay but what 
the hell are you doing on those date 
nights if you're sitting in front of the 
TV and Watching Ted lasso or the 
Diplomat or going to a movie every week 
that's not date night that's an activity 
what date night should be is an 
intentional night where you don't talk 
about the business of everyday life 
you're not talking about what happened 
at work that day that's transactional 
domestic partnership stuff it's what are 
you feeling right now how are you 
feeling about life how are you feeling 
about our life is there something 
Weighing on you what are you thinking 
about what are you dreaming about what 
are you afraid of and staying connected 
in those really connected e-ways that is 
how you stay out of the hum drum of 
everyday life and if you can't do a date 
night have those conversations even if 
it's 11 pm while you're in bed together 
you have to be intentional about having 
those conversations and connecting at 
those Soul levels to be able to 
withstand the conflicts and withstand 
those hard waves that will crash into 
your relationship at some point 
throughout life yeah one thing that we 
have done and continue to do uh is 
called a marriage walk where we'll just 
go go for a walk together and we can 
talk about anything but the reason I 
bring this up is that it it reinforces 
this point that we are doing this intent 
the reason we call it a marriage walk 
the mbw tell them what the mbw is 
um you forgot marriage binding walk 
where's binding walk we read about this 
like 20 years ago that the Swedish do 
this and after dinner they go from walks 
and they all have happier marriages and 
this was before the birth of Smart 
dating Academy so we started calling 
them let's go on an mbw but the point 
here is that it's intentional and the 
fact that the word marriage is in it and 
binding is in it is to reinforce that 
this is intentional about our 
relationship as romantic partners and as 
best friends not just as business 
partners right and that is really what 
we're trying to do as we go forward here 
and it is it needs to be active it needs 
to be intentional uh and it needs to be 
proactive and that is that's really the 
point we're making here yeah it also 
slides into the next point that I think 
is really really important and it's that 
the little things matter oh say it again 
for the people in the back the little 
things matter I think of what we're 
you're doing when you enter into a 
long-term relationship it is long-term 
by definition 
and really what you're doing is you are 
weaving your lives together and 
one way to view that is a business for 
transaction and then ever with staccato 
big romantic events that occur 
but really what you're actually doing is 
you're weaving your life together at a 
at a core level and every little thing 
matters every day and every day I think 
Bella's talked about this I make her 
coffee every single day in bed uh that's 
how I wake up how amazing is that and 
that's just one one little thing but I 
think it it reinforces that really we're 
weaving our lives together and doing it 
in a way that and I like doing it right 
and I think it it it points out that 
this is really about just building 
little habits and little points of 
interaction continuously and constantly 
versus defining the relationship as one 
big romantic vacation once a year right 
and you know John gottman who's one of 
my favorite relationship researchers he 
talks about the ratio of positive to 
negative interactions and this gets to 
Andy's why Point not he's not a student 
of gottman obviously he's in venture 
capital and private Equity that's more 
me but really the little things matter 
you need to have I think gottman says 
something like 20 to 1. you need 20 
positive interactions for every negative 
one the positives got to overwhelm the 
hell out of the negative ones say the 
nice thing notice what your partner does 
oh my gosh it's amazing that you change 
the light bulbs in the living room and 
now they all look like that really nice 
color that I like that's a hint to him 
because we have awesome yet mismatched 
light bulbs that make the living room 
look too yellow but really noticing the 
things that he does and he does a lot of 
things and I try and I'm not always good 
at it but I like to notice the things 
that he does and tell them because who 
doesn't want to be seen and affirmed for 
the things that they do and and I'll add 
to that on the one hand it's about 
recognizing The Good Deeds that each 
other bring to the table and telling 
them but but part of my point here is 
actually that the found the true 
foundation of the relationship is the 
sum total of all of these things and 
it's a subtly different point but it is 
a different point and it's that the the 
relationship and the romantic love and 
friendship needs to be it can really 
only be built off of 
all of these daily small interactions 
that are in fact positive and so it's 
it's not just about recognition but it's 
literally about building that 
relationship amen amen and I'm really 
lucky that I have a partner who I said 
hey I've got this idea I want you to 
come on the podcast and he was like okay 
let's do it so this is the thing we and 
I appreciate you being here and I 
appreciate this amazing list that you 
wrote and I appreciate that you came up 
with the idea to use this list as how 
we're going to help people to hopefully 
transform and develop and find their own 
happy relationship so 
um I appreciate everything that you do 
and if it wasn't for you I would have 
never started this business if I had a 
partner who said just go back to what 
you know what do you think you're going 
to do with this how are you going to 
make a living for us how are you going 
to contribute just go back to 
manufacturing your Finance person don't 
take this risk and instead what he said 
to me and we were talking about this the 
other day I said God you really said to 
me go do it and and you know what he 
said to me he's like because I knew that 
anything you did you would you would 
transform into magic how amazing is that 
yeah I wasn't worried at all she was 
that was a dark place for her I'm always 
worried I'm the anxious one as I'm sure 
you all could guess not for me I just 
knew it was going to happen and back to 
this podcast I'll use that to bring up 
the 26th 
tip that I came up with for yet another 
year and that's just have fun together 
we talked about a lot of deep things 
through the rest of this list but really 
just be happy having fun together and I 
think this podcast is another example of 
that right we get to just sit here next 
to each other ruminating talking 
and you know I want to tell you you're 
not one that you know you speak a lot 
for work but you're really natural at 
being on this podcast and I think that 
you should be a guest here more often 
because you're a lot of fun well I don't 
know that's a tall order we'll see I'm 
happy to do it it's fun right it's so 
fun it's so so fun so 
um you guys I hope this is giving you a 
little bit of the behind the scenes and 
oh let me see somebody had a couple of 
questions for us let me see if I can 
find them 
okay hold on 
okay 
oh well I think we answered the 
questions people sent us questions 
saying what do you do to ensure that you 
have enough quality time for each other 
we make the time for each other we do 
our marriage binding walks we go out and 
you know what's one thing you learned in 
your years together that you wish you 
knew earlier I think the answer to that 
was 
I wish we would have known how to 
de-escalate conflicts yeah I think 
that's right I think we would have had a 
much more peaceful first decade of 
marriage right so and I would add to 
that actually it's going to sound 
esoteric but I think I wish I had known 
that the relationship itself was going 
to be a journey in terms of learning and 
so that people you shouldn't expect to 
come into the relationship and know 
everything that's going to make it run 
perfectly and smoothly 
that it truly is a learning Endeavor and 
I think just with that shift in mindset 
I think that does a lot uh to reframe 
how you even come at the relationship 
absolutely well 
thank you so much for being on my 
podcast for being the lid to my pot for 
giving me 26 amazing years and hopefully 
another 26 or 56 God willing so 
um it's good to get married young it 
sure is thank you thank you for 
everything for all of our years I love 
you love you too and you know in terms 
of coming back on the podcast you could 
talk to my Booker uh and I'm sure I've 
got some dates in the next few months 
but we can go back and forth and figure 
that out I'll have my people call your 
people and guys I hope that you enjoyed 
this episode the little peek behind the 
curtains and I want you to know that we 
have prepared a podcast listener survey 
and you'll be able to get a link to that 
survey in the show notes and we want to 
give you content that you love we want 
to know what's important to you we want 
to know who you are we want to know 
where you are how old you are what 
what's important to you what kind of job 
you do because we want to understand how 
to bring you content that you love and 
content that helps you we want to make 
you better at Smart dating Academy in 
dating and all of your relationships we 
always said we want to bring love into 
your life and life into your love so 
please take the time to download and 
answer the podcast so that we can be the 
best podcast partners for you thank you 
very much if you need a consultation 
with us reach out join our email list at 
smartdatingacademy.com follow me at 
smartdatingacademy on Instagram and 
please if you love this write a review 
us little podcasters those reviews those 
five stars those comments that you 
actually sit down and write and it's 
really easy to do on Apple or Amazon or 
Spotify they mean the world they get us 
discovered my buy more people which 
means we can keep bringing you more 
great content so thank you again for 
being here and for responding and for 
reviewing and for doing all of the 
things so we can continue to be here for 
you on a weekly basis have a great week 
until I see you again psychotic optimism 
today tomorrow and always 


