[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back I'm so excited 
for this episode because you know so 
much of what I love to talk to you about 
and teach you about and bring guests 
onto the podcast about is really 
becoming the best versions of ourselves 
right and I know we talk about that and 
you know oh yeah of course you want to 
be the best version of yourself but 
really how do you do that and today's 
guest is someone who is helping people 
to do just that her name is Julia arndt 
and she's the founder of the Peak 
Performance method PPM 
um it's I'm going to read it a unique 
model combining critical productivity 
mindfulness and Leadership tools to help 
Forward Thinking people develop their 
next superpower like how amazing is that 
and Julia is originally from Germany you 
know I have a German degree so I love 
that she's lived in five countries all 
over the last 14 years she was at Google 
and now because of the successful things 
she launched at Google she's now 
successfully on her own so Julia welcome 
to the podcast 
thank you so much for having me Bella 
I'm very very excited to be here 
awesome let's Jump Right In and tell us 
tell us how did you start doing this 
work 
yeah 
I burned out is the short answer in the 
summer of 2018 
and leading up to the burnout I started 
to invest more in my personal 
development I started listening to 
podcasts I started to listen to 
audiobooks on on my commute and 
I started to ask myself a lot of big 
questions and it was really interesting 
how then at the same time I didn't 
realize that I was kind of exploiting my 
body and I was very burned out and so I 
went on a medical leave for three months 
in order to figure out what am I gonna 
do next because the work that I was 
doing at the time didn't really feel 
fulfilling anymore and 
I really wanted to live full-time in 
Lake Tahoe which in 2019 2018 was not 
possible now everything is more hybrid 
or fully remote but at the time it 
wasn't really that way and so I yeah I 
really asked myself some really big life 
questions around what do I want to do it 
was really difficult to make the 
decision to leave Google and at the same 
time I heard this like bigger calling 
around I burned out I felt really lonely 
in the process and I wish I would have 
had the person that I'm trying to 
represent today for the people that are 
going through the same things so I 
decided to start my own business I 
started a podcast in 2019 as well and 
yeah and that's kind of where it all 
started 
that's amazing so you were burned out 
and put together your own protocol for 
yourself that got you healed healthy 
happy and so you know you've got some 
great material so why don't you tell us 
you know specifically 
you say that there's three simple 
questions 
that someone can ask themselves about a 
situation and I'm guessing you had a 
conversation with yourself using these 
three questions so let's talk about 
these three critical questions to assess 
what should you be doing with your life 
yeah 
there are three very simple questions or 
three simple things you can ask yourself 
if you are finding yourself in a 
situation where you don't really know 
what to do next and the Very three 
simple questions are love it leave it or 
change it 
and I've actually heard that in a 
podcast before myself and a deeply 
deeply resonated with me because 
sometimes we struggle so much with 
making a decision or knowing what's next 
and so love it leave it or change it 
it's really simply 
that reminder that you have the power to 
make your own decisions and to to make 
the choices that are aligned with who 
you are as a person and I know that's 
oftentimes easy to say and and harder to 
put into practice but let's break it 
down into these really three simple 
things right so love it very clear so if 
you are in a situation and maybe you've 
been feeling a little frustrated or 
or overwhelmed right ask yourself do I 
love this do I leave it or do I change 
it and maybe the answer is you love it 
you actually love the work that you do 
or you love the person that you're with 
maybe not your single this nurse maybe 
they they are not with somebody at this 
point but 
love it it's sometimes we have to kind 
of go back to the roots and remind 
ourselves why we have been in certain 
places so love it is is powerful 
leave it at the time you know for me 
when I was going through 
this big 
professional questions around what do I 
do next I've been at this company for 
seven and a half years I I get a great 
salary and great benefits and everything 
on the outside seems so perfect 
but do I love it I didn't love it 
anymore so 
I try to change it actually for a very 
long period of time so that that's kind 
of that third question I try to change 
it I try to look for other roles within 
the company I try to look for teams that 
were offering remote positions I was 
looking for other companies outside of 
the company I was thinking about 
starting my own business but it was a 
really scary decision so even though we 
can break it down to these three simple 
questions sometimes the answer itself 
might take a while to get to us or we 
might need some courage and some some 
time to just sit with it right totally 
and then over at the end of the day I 
had to be really honest with myself 
because it affected my physical and 
psychological health so much that 
there was only one option left which was 
leave it and so I left the job and it 
was very difficult at the time and today 
I know it was the best decision I could 
ever make for myself 
and that's so interesting it's really 
powerful do I love it do I leave it or 
do I change it and you have the steering 
wheel dear listener on most situations 
in your life right but there are going 
to be those situations where you don't 
love it but you can't leave it I know 
you talk about that let's talk a little 
bit about that 
um 
well I think the first thing that popped 
into my mind is really that 
responsibility like the victim mindset 
versus the growth mindset it is so easy 
to say it's out of my hands I can't do 
anything about this right and so I 
always challenge my clients and I want 
to challenge your listeners today too if 
they've if you feel like you you don't 
love it but you can't leave it then ask 
yourself what is in your control what is 
in your power to actually make some 
changes around that it could be as 
simple and I'm putting that in 
in quotes in quotes because we all know 
this it sounds simple but we know it's 
not always simple but it can be as 
simple as changing your mindset right 
and to say okay I actually know that I 
don't love it and I don't I don't want 
to leave it but I I need to change 
something about the situation so get the 
power and the control back because 
oftentimes that is what's putting us in 
the highest stress State because we're 
like I really don't really like this and 
we're struggling internally and we're 
spending so much energy we're expending 
so much energy on 
just sitting with these big questions in 
our head 
and so changing it is maybe sitting down 
and asking yourself okay what is outside 
of my control right two simple 
journaling questions but powerful what 
is inside of your control and what is 
outside of your control maybe in your 
control is to let go of 
talking to 50 different people about how 
unhappy you are because imagine and 
think about how much time it actually 
takes to talk with all of these 
different people and it continues to 
make you sad if you're rehashing why 
you're miserable to 50 different people 
right and it puts you it keeps you in 
that state it keeps you in this in that 
state that you're familiar with 
which is why oftentimes we don't change 
because we like the familiarity and our 
brain loves what it's used to 
but 
okay sometimes we need to sit with that 
we can write it down and say okay I'm 
actually consciously making the decision 
to letting to let that go and then you 
can also say to yourself and ask 
yourself okay so what is the outside of 
my control maybe outside of your control 
at the moment is 
you need that job and there's no other 
way for you right so 
you you accept that that is that is your 
current environment or maybe you are 
frustrated because your organization 
just went through another reorg and 
you've had a new manager again and you 
need to learn new skills again right and 
maybe all of these things are really 
frustrating to you but again 
let's focus on the things that are 
within the within your sphere of control 
because that creates more power for 
yourself 
I love that 
um I read a book many years ago that 
because we're talking about work that 
said we you know it's kind of like 
having a romantic partner we expect one 
person to be the end-all be-all of our 
happiness which isn't correct or right 
and a stressful way to think about a 
relationship and we tend to think the 
same thing about our jobs our jobs 
should provide us with purpose and 
meaning and happiness and growth and all 
of these things but the fact of the 
matter is is that for many people a job 
provides them a roof over their head 
money in their bank account and health 
benefits so thinking about what you can 
change if I have to stay in this job 
what are other things that bring me joy 
that I could bring in to my life again 
maybe when you were a kid you were a 
great violin player can you start to 
play the violin again maybe you've 
always wanted to learn to paint so you 
can up level your happiness with the 
situation by accepting that you can't 
change this right now but you can make 
choices for the other 16 hours or I 
guess the other eight hours of your 
waking day to do things that actually 
bring you Joy yeah I love that end 
it can also be within the job so maybe 
it is ask yourself what do you enjoy 
most about your job like bring that back 
into your awareness because you probably 
don't hate everything about your job 
maybe you really enjoy the human 
interaction so in heavily invest in debt 
and create that environment that you 
want to be in so yeah I I love both I 
love that you can do things out outside 
of your job but I think it's also 
important to remind yourself hey what 
are all the good things about this role 
what is something that makes me feel 
really excited maybe even there's 
something that you can take on within 
the company that 
um then brings more joy to your life 
yeah exactly and you know it's 
interesting I Julia last night I had 
dinner with a friend of mine who's a 
prominent CEO in Chicago and we hadn't 
caught up in a couple of years since 
coven and so when we sat down I noticed 
she didn't have a wedding ring on and so 
she said wow we have a lot to catch up 
on that I got divorced during covet and 
she went on to sort of tell me the 
entire story but 
the punch line is she's happier today 
than she's ever been and your three 
questions would have been so impactful 
for her she knew that her marriage was 
not going to work out in 2008 but she 
had a five-year-old daughter and said I 
only know myself as a married person how 
would I get out of this how would I do 
this on my own and so she just continued 
to exist in her marriage until one day 
enough was enough in 2019 and she said 
I'm done got a place for him to move 
into put the keys in his lap and said 
you gotta go and started the divorce 
proceedings and so she finally made the 
decision to change it and to leave it as 
subsequently her career has blossomed 
her love life has blossomed since then 
so sitting down and she would and I know 
she would say God I wish I would have 
had the courage to say I could have had 
all of this 10 years ago I wasted all 
that time so if you can take something 
out of this sometimes leaving it or 
changing it my friend 
is the hard thing and it can bring up so 
much fear of oh my gosh what if this is 
a bad choice what if what if and all the 
Mind monkeys start jumping around but I 
want to tell you if you're in a 
situation like this take this to Heart 
Find the meaning in the mess that's 
presented to you right now and if you 
have the power to change it or to leave 
it really think about my gosh what could 
my new life look like and let that 
inspire you don't sit in fear 
uh left it so much and that's and that's 
a really powerful 
self-discovery tool and I know that you 
wanted to talk a little bit about 
self-discovery as well and 
what you're basically just described is 
visualization right really connecting 
with what is actually your dream I think 
we don't spend enough time on that 
anymore no matter if it is your dream 
partner my mom is actually dating at the 
moment as well she's 62 years old she 
just went for her second divorce and 
she's been dating for a year and it's 
been really interesting to be with her 
on that Journey right from from the 
outside and to kind of give her dating 
advice and all the different things and 
and I said to her mom you should sit 
down and really think about who do you 
actually want to attract into your life 
what kind of qualities does this person 
have and how does he look and what does 
he do and all of these different things 
visualization is important it's it's I 
think it's a little bit a part of 
manifestation maybe as well right but I 
do this and and again you can do this in 
any area of your life that's why I love 
this so much 
because sometimes I also talk to people 
that want a new job and they want a new 
job but they have no idea what they want 
and I say I always say well let's close 
our eyes for a second and just dream 
about what would be the best case 
scenario we know that the best case 
scenario might not always happen but we 
can at least dream about it and work 
towards that and yeah it's it's a 
wonderful tool and I 
I think this is It's really helpful and 
Powerful for people to sit with that 
question 
I love that like what do I want what do 
I want what does your life look like who 
are you in this new life right what do 
you do on a day-to-day basis how do you 
move how do you feel who do you surround 
yourself with all of these 
more specific questions can really help 
you paint the picture of what that life 
that you're trying to bring in actually 
looks like 
and how would you suggest you know I 
asked the question all the time what do 
you want right people can always readily 
tell you what they don't want but what 
do you want is a scary question because 
it makes you get really specific right 
and maybe you haven't sat down because 
you're constantly you know drowning out 
your inside through social media and TV 
and Netflix and Friends where you don't 
actually sit down to reconnect with 
yourself so if this resonates with you I 
want you to ask yourself with regards to 
maybe it's a relationship what do I 
really want who do I really want maybe 
it's work what kind of work do I want to 
be doing maybe it's where you're living 
where would I love to live someday and 
sit down and ask yourself and I don't 
want you to get into the what I what I 
don't want what do you want to really 
kick start that process of 
self-discovery 
hmm 
and it's also interesting to observe 
what resonates with you or what you know 
if you do spend time on social media 
what what do you find attractive no 
matter if it is the life or the person 
right but I remember when I went through 
this big self-discovery Journey myself I 
would say from 2015 to 2018 and of 
course it never stops right but that was 
a very big transitional phase for me 
because I moved from the corporate world 
into entrepreneurship 
and I was commuting between the Bay Area 
here in Silicon Valley San Francisco to 
Tahoe every single week because I wanted 
to be in Lake Tahoe full time that that 
was my dream and it started to become 
more and more apparent that I wanted to 
be here I wanted to be in this place I 
wanted to call it home I wanted to spend 
time outside every single day and be in 
the forest and be by the lake and 
um I was listening I was mentioning that 
at the beginning of our podcast today 
and I was listening to this to a podcast 
to a German podcast actually and from a 
spiritual coach 
and and I started to follow her and her 
journey and and I was thinking to myself 
if I could create the life that I want I 
would live in Tahoe full-time and run my 
own coaching business 
you know and here I am five years later 
and that's what that's I made the stream 
a reality and it it wasn't that I I 
don't know it's it's a very gradual 
process sometimes right it's not like 
today I'm gonna do this and then all 
everything is cleared it took a time to 
to to sit with that and to dream it and 
to slowly kind of move into that 
direction it's it's a beautiful process 
I love that and are there any other 
prompts or things that you can tell us 
besides like what do I want and what do 
I manifest what do I see are there any 
other you know clear prompts that you 
have that could really Grease the wheels 
for us to start to self-discover in a 
more productive way 
yeah 
um I just recently did a YouTube video 
on how to start your self-discovery 
journey 
and as we are chatting Bella I'm 
actually pulling up my notes from that 
podcast episode and from that video 
because I do want to share some more 
specific questions and I know I have 
them 
so 
this is real stuff you guys we're not 
we're not editing this right we're all 
looking we're not editing this exactly 
yeah yeah we're all looking for our 
notes but you know get your notebooks 
out ladies and gentlemen because she's 
gonna drop some gems on you that I think 
even if you feel pretty happy with where 
you are in a variety of aspects I think 
everybody has that one or two pieces 
that we're working on where these 
prompts can really start to help you 
right so here they are 
so when you're starting your 
self-discovery journey you can also ask 
yourself and again you might think oh 
this is a simple question but let's 
really sit it with these questions you 
can ask yourself what do you what do I 
read what do I listen to 
who do I surround myself with what do I 
do on a daily basis 
so four simple questions what do I read 
what do I listen to who do I surround 
myself with and what do I do on a daily 
basis because these four things can give 
you some really powerful insights into 
what do you do right now 
and is that aligned with the life that 
you want to have in the future that 
you're dreaming about that you're 
visualizing or is it not really aligned 
and so I always like to go 
we can visualize and dream but it's also 
powerful to go from a set point or from 
a status quo of okay where am I at right 
now am I happy with that am I already 
investing the time in the people and 
places and and habits and routines that 
that I'm actually really excited about 
and that I know will make me a better 
person or do I not and so it's kind of a 
an honest conversation with yourself to 
say okay 
what's going on right now 
I love that so is it an alignment right 
because if your goals and your dreams 
are you know 
way big for example you know let's say 
your goal is to feel better in your body 
and to be healthier but then when you 
sit down and do an inventory of yourself 
like what do I read Listen to Who Do I 
surround myself with and what do I do on 
a daily basis if it's you know I drive 
my car into a fast food stop twice a day 
I find myself you know polishing off a 
bottle of wine by myself like are these 
things that are in alignment with you 
feeling good in your body and maybe 
that's not a goal for you but really 
taking an honest inventory of what 
you're doing listening to surrounding 
yourself with and who are your friends 
will really help you to go wow maybe 
this is why I feel unhappy or 
unsatisfied or discontented with what 
I'm doing because it's totally out of 
alignment 
um 
yeah totally I have more if you want 
sure 
all right so let's talk about 
visualization again right we talked 
about visualization we talked about 
dreams and visualizing the life that you 
want so here are some specific 
journaling prompts for that what are 
your dreams and what are your goals and 
the third question for those two 
specific questions for me is the most 
powerful one because the next one is how 
does it make you feel when you think 
about these 
I love that so powerful so what are your 
dreams what are your goals how does it 
make you feel when you think about these 
and then in order to maybe maybe you 
don't really know what you should dream 
about because sometimes right we are in 
that state of I'm not really happy but I 
also don't really know what I want so if 
you are in that space you can also ask 
yourself well 
what are your strengths 
what are your weaknesses 
and what are you interested in what what 
lights you on fire and it can be 
different from 
you know I I think back to my late 20s 
or early 30s and then 
every year 
one or two years I started to shift into 
a different area that I was interested 
in right it was yoga for two years and 
it was really coaching for two years and 
um it was 
you know mountain biking maybe for two 
years right so there there's like 
different shifts of things that really 
brought me joy and that's okay as well 
it's not like you're making a decision 
and it has to be the decision that you 
have made for the rest of your life but 
it's okay to reinvent yourself and to 
find new ways that bring you Joy yeah 
it's okay to have a right now plan right 
right now I would like to live in Lake 
Tahoe that doesn't mean that you're 
handcuffed to Tahoe forever you made the 
move and what that does is it builds 
your confidence muscle it's saying okay 
if I got to Tahoe and that was my dream 
and maybe someday you'll say you know 
I'd really like to get back to Dublin 
right that you know you could build a 
bridge for yourself to get back there 
again so I love I love this and let's 
you know talk a little bit I love one of 
um I love your work around 
self-love and self care and I love one 
of the things that you started with and 
I'm going straight from memory is well 
why don't first why don't we start with 
defining what you feel self-love is we 
all talk about loving ourselves right 
and at the end of the day 
I like myself I don't love everything 
about myself you know singles will ask 
me all the time well Bella how do I know 
if I'm ready to date if I'm supposed to 
love myself first do I or don't I so 
let's go with your definition of 
self-love and then how we can love 
ourselves better 
okay 
I love this question and you're gonna 
love the answer I hope but I do want to 
start actually the answer with a little 
story so in 2020 
um my at that time fiancee 
um cheated on me and we decided to break 
up it was already the second time he had 
done it 
and I'm gonna go find him don't worry 
Julia okay go ahead and it brought me 
into a spiral it was a really powerful 
powerful time for me 
um a very painful time a bit big 
heartbreak 
um we had just gotten a dog together we 
just moved into a beautiful house 
together and six months later all of 
these things happened and so it's put me 
in a very 
healing space for a long period of time 
I'd say a year and a half two years 
until I felt like I was myself again 
um but through that heartbreak I think 
the biggest realization was that I am 
not I wasn't really loving myself or 
right when things like that happen to 
you you ask yourself all of the big 
questions right like why it was I not 
laughed why did this happen to me um am 
I not worthy of love you know you lose 
your self-confidence you lose your 
self-love and so 
in that time I had to really learn to 
love myself and to do the things that 
are good for me because I was 
very badly heartbroken and sad and 
and it was very difficult to navigate 
through so every day right because when 
they say when you go through a 
heartbreak it's it's harder you know 
even though you know you might be better 
in six to 12 months you still have to go 
through day by day at the beginning of 
the pain when you're going through it so 
every day 
I woke up and I asked myself the 
question 
what do I need right now to feel just 
one percent better 
and it was so difficult at the beginning 
right because you get used to being 
alone again and to build a life again 
and 
all of the things right and so and some 
days I had good days and some days I had 
very heavy days right very emotional 
days and 
that was for me 
really the start of a beautiful 
self-loving journey of really listening 
to what do I need right now and at the 
beginning I think when we were 
practicing that or when we're starting 
to build maybe more of a self-love 
muscle we might not even have an answer 
we might we might not even know what the 
answer is to what do I need right now 
right maybe the answer is I need a hug 
or maybe the answer is I want to be with 
this person again right right 
it was kind of that safe space right 
into the Comfort space 
um and so for me 
self-love is still very different from 
self-care because I think you can do 
things for yourself 
but they might not it might not really 
translate into loving yourself 
um and I think for me self-love goes 
goes a lot deeper into 
how do you talk to yourself 
um 
how do you listen to really to really 
your needs right like we all know and I 
work with a lot of high Achievers and 
Peak performers we can push ourselves 
hard right we are not really honest with 
ourselves we push ourselves to work 
super hard or we push ourselves to work 
out super hard right and it's not really 
the it's not really aligned with 
with what I really what what I really my 
soul kind of needs and so self-love is a 
deep practice of 
listening to your needs and giving 
yourself what you need first before 
you're giving it to anyone else and I 
truly do believe that the more love you 
have for yourself 
you can love anyone in a way right I 
think you probably talk about this as 
well do you yeah yeah yeah for sure and 
sometimes loving yourself is in the way 
of 
um treatment that you will and won't 
accept from others again right and and 
having those kind of boundaries where 
you know I am better off loving myself 
and being enveloped in the love of my 
friends my family than to be with a 
romantic partner who doesn't love me or 
treat me well it's better to be without 
that person but I know sometimes we get 
into that state where we get addicted to 
that kind of love and we don't even and 
because we haven't said who am I what 
does love feel like to me and we're like 
a black hole and this person can do 
whatever [ __ ] they want to do and we'll 
take it and we'll take it and we'll take 
it because we're afraid what happens 
when that love is gone but what we start 
to see when we go through that painful 
healing process that wasn't love at all 
right so true and that was I think that 
healing process that I had to go through 
myself in that self-love practice of 
forgiving myself two of staying in a 
relationship that already had very clear 
signals of not being actually healthy 
love 
um but like you said like we're getting 
addicted or we are we're making 
ourselves dependent on a person and 
it's it's it's I understand how 
difficult it is to break that pattern 
um and at the same time 
it's the best thing you can do for 
yourself ever because once you have that 
self-confidence and you have healed 
within yourself you can show up so 
differently 
in another relationship you know in a 
new relationship absolutely and you know 
that's our super power at helping people 
navigate from that to make sure that 
they don't get in caught in the spiral 
of what feels comfortable all over again 
and looking for that addiction kind of 
love right and we become codependent on 
that so that's totally the realm that 
we're holding our clients hands one by 
one and helping them navigate that 
process now back to self-love I watched 
one of your videos and I love something 
that you talk about with regards to 
self-love it's so 
um it's profound and we don't do this 
and you say make a list of the things 
that you love about yourself 
can you talk a little bit about your 
process 
yeah 
I think this is one of the right it's 
similar to the visualization piece of 
like what are you dreaming about or like 
the the inventory checklist right so 
first of all 
we we need to reconnect with ourselves 
and so when you are when you are maybe 
listening to this podcast today and you 
think 
yeah definitely resonates with me I'm 
not really practicing yourself if I 
don't even really know where to start 
it is a really good 
place to start with just well what do 
you love about yourself and maybe what 
are you unhappy with right 
um and trust me every single person has 
things that 
they love about themselves and things 
that they're not so happy with right you 
can look at the most beautiful 
supermodel and they will they will have 
things they they can put in both of 
these categories 
and so 
first of all it's a beautiful practice 
to celebrate yourself a little bit and 
to sit with and to sit with that 
knowledge and that insight 
and then it might also be a really good 
indicator of okay 
what is it that you can still work on 
right so if maybe for example something 
comes up 
where you're like oh I would really like 
to feel healthier well what is one step 
in that direction that you can take in 
order to practice that self-love right 
because investing in yourself is is 
always 
it's so Priceless I just invested in a 
business coach this summer and it blew 
my mind again of you know how much when 
you invest in yourself 
you you learn about yourself and you 
grow and it's it's all a self-love 
practice and it's a growth practice and 
the more you learn and understand 
yourself that's why I love personal 
development so much 
but it's so powerful I always say to my 
clients the most powerful thing you can 
do is invest in yourself when you love 
yourself you have self-confidence and 
when you're self-confident you can 
conquer the world because you don't have 
to be perfect at anything that you that 
you know right or you have to go into 
the job interview with the perfect 
answers but when you are self-confident 
and you know who you are and you can 
also laugh about your imperfections and 
say well maybe I didn't know this answer 
or maybe 
you know for me as a German in an 
English-speaking country I don't always 
find the perfect words sometimes right 
but I can laugh about this and I 
couldn't always laugh about this 
and 
but that confidence 
makes you attract people and that's and 
it's it's a very very powerful energy 
that once you've kind of found the 
secret and the key to that it will it 
will never go away again 
I love that yeah you're so right you're 
so right and you're right it fuels 
confidence so if you first make this 
list of the things that you love about 
yourself okay so now we're staring at 
this list what do we do next 
mm-hmm 
like I said I think you you should 
celebrate yourself 
um 
and 
I think honestly self-love is an ongoing 
lifelong journey you know and that list 
might change over time so now that you 
have that list in front of you 
that is your list that's your inventory 
that's that's who you are you know and 
maybe you want to put more emphasis on 
the things that you love about yourself 
as well right so maybe it's like 
do something that that's good for you I 
don't think that there's necessarily 
like a next action item of like okay 
once I have this list of things 
um now that there's something specific 
that I need to do put you can pin it on 
the wall if you want you can pin it on 
your fridge you know have it somewhere 
where you can see that on a regular 
basis and where you can celebrate that 
we and you know I I always say this 
because I know that when you hear these 
things for the first time maybe you may 
think you might think oh this sounds 
kind of silly to put that list on the 
wall or put it on the fridge but 
it has so much power like these these 
positive insights and and having a more 
positive outlook on yourself rather than 
constantly thinking about 
the bad things because we we all know 
that we are critical enough and we have 
enough self-talk negative self-talk 
oftentimes about the things that we 
don't love about ourselves so why not 
celebrate the other side and bring that 
more into our Consciousness because our 
brain is wired to think negatively and 
to to have a you know yeah survival bias 
and so 
your brain will always show you the 
negative things anyway so why not train 
your brain and the muscle because your 
brain at the end of the day is a muscle 
as well to think more positively that's 
right and I love this you guys listen to 
this I want you to sit down with paper 
and pen and I want you to make a list 
put some good music on pour yourself a 
cup of tea or a glass of wine or 
whatever is your jam and sit down and 
make a list of all of the things that 
you love about yourself okay and I want 
you especially you smart daters or 
people that are out there in the dating 
world really to look at this list like 
Julia is saying on a daily basis because 
these are your assets and these are the 
things that you love about yourself and 
if someone doesn't appreciate those and 
ask you out for another date who cares 
bless and release them ultimately 
because you are a rock star and you've 
got a whole lot of good stuff going on 
and sometimes to flip away from the oh 
my gosh why didn't this person want to 
see me again to help with that look back 
at your list of all the things that are 
amazing about yourself and put that love 
and that self-confidence back in your 
step so you have the courage to maybe 
keep swiping on the apps creating your 
dating board of directors asking people 
for setups being engaging with people 
looking at people smiling when you're in 
airports and wherever you are but really 
and the root of that comes from 
believing that you are worthy and you 
100 are so I can't wait to see your 
lists of what you guys come up with and 
certainly send us your lists at Smart 
dating Academy we want to celebrate you 
and when I get your list I'll share them 
in my Instagram stories I want you to 
really think about the things that you 
love about yourself and maybe it's 
compliments that you get from other 
people like people always tell me I look 
super Chic or whatever that is and write 
down the positive attributes and be able 
to fight the negativity and going to the 
dark side by looking at that list and 
keeping it in your handbag put it on 
your car dashboard put it on your 
bathroom mirror I don't care but I want 
you to look at it every single day 
yeah 
that's powerful or you can write the 
list with a lipstick on your mirror oh 
girl you are singing I tell my clients 
we have a philosophy called psychotic 
optimism at Smart dating Academy and so 
one day I was on Instagram live and I 
was on fire and I was like I want you 
all to be in your most psychotically 
optimistic State and our motto is love 
will come to me it's a when it's not an 
if right it's coming we just have to 
believe that it's out there and I'm like 
put a Post-It note on your computer 
write it with red lipstick on your 
mirror and if you do it send it to me 
people were sending me photos love will 
come to me it's a win on their bathroom 
mirrors it elated me beyond my short 
five foot three stature 
it's super powerful I had an affirmation 
on my mural when I was going through my 
heartbreak 
um I'm trying to remember what it was it 
was something around I'm worthy of Love 
um and it's cool because again when you 
really practice these things and you 
actually realize how often you go to the 
bathroom to go pee during the day 
especially if you're working from home 
you see this every single time and it is 
really this like subconscious thing that 
is starting to trickle into your brain 
to be like yeah I am worthy of love and 
love will find you you know it's just a 
matter of when it will happen 
absolutely so you know um truth be told 
I haven't put a list together of the 
things that I like about myself and it 
almost makes me blush as I think about 
that but I'm going to do this when I get 
off this podcast with you while it's in 
my mind 
okay I love that well take us on 
Instagram story and we'll share it and 
hopefully people will join in absolutely 
I love that I love that idea and you 
know Julia any 
um 
any other 
gems that you want to drop on the Smart 
dating Academy audience 
well I think one last thing that's been 
a little bit on my mind 
is one thing around self-confidence 
which is 
oftentimes especially when we are 
feeling stressed no matter where the 
stress comes from if it is from work or 
from not feeling super worthy or from 
going on dates and not really finding 
the right partner and that puts you in 
this kind of negative self-talk spiral 
we experience higher levels of stress 
and you know stress is kind of my Gem 
and stress is like my passion I love to 
talk about it and I'm very passionate 
about the Neuroscience of it all 
um and one of the biggest realizations 
that I've had on my with myself and then 
of course with a lot of people that I've 
worked with is this that the higher 
stress levels we have the more in the 
stress side we are the more we look to 
our external world to validate us and to 
recognize us and to make us feel better 
and 
it goes back to everything that we 
talked about today Bella but I do want 
to very make this very very clear that 
it is normal that we do do that 
unfortunately that we do kind of start 
to look at the external world to 
validate us no matter if it is our 
partner or our family or our manager or 
our friends 
and so you have the power and it goes 
back you know this is kind of closing 
the circle today it's it's going back to 
having a growth mindset and reminding 
yourself that you have the power to take 
that power back by simply creating 
awareness that oh this is what's 
happening right now I am actually 
looking everywhere but inside of me to 
get love why do you do that because once 
you love yourself 
that confidence that it will speak 
volumes for itself you know and then 
it's so much such a much more powerful 
space to visualize from to manifest from 
to to Dream from right so if you find 
yourself in that state if you do feel 
like oh yeah I'm doing that right now 
here's your powerful reminder that 
create awareness around that stop that 
behavior bring it back to yourself write 
a list of the things that you love about 
yourself pin it on your mirror and then 
practice that because the more you can 
stand in your own power the more other 
people will see that within you as well 
I love that so much and Julie you are 
you told me before the call that you 
have a planner like tell us is this like 
encompassing all of the things that you 
are prompting people to do or tell us 
what we should do should we yeah get the 
plan so the yeah so I'll show you the 
Peak Performance planner it looks like 
this it comes actually into a course and 
in White And so there's two different 
color options so you can get it on 
Amazon and I created the planner because 
I love I am a planner and I love 
planning and I love journaling I talk 
about that all the time for 
self-discovery and self-development and 
growth and 
it's I feel like I started this business 
and in my head I was like I need to 
create a planner and so the Peak 
Performance planner is to create 
awareness and to build new habits 
um it is centered it and this is not 
really focused on work as such it's 
really more about yourself about 
where you're at who you are and and what 
you're currently doing on a day-to-day 
basis that that makes you happy and what 
maybe leads to you not being so happy so 
there's actually it's a 
um it's with journaling prompts so there 
is a daily weekly and monthly 
reflection their reflection pages so I 
can show it to you Bella because I know 
that you said that you were curious 
about it too so there's the daily 
planner looks like this okay guys for 
those of you listening to this in your 
car there's lots of words in this 
planner and lots of blank spaces for you 
to write things down exactly which looks 
really amazing and I need to get better 
at journaling I'm really good when I 
Journal so your planner looks like 
something I'm going to invest in yeah 
yeah and so it has the daily planner it 
has always journaling prompts for the 
morning and then for the evening and 
then for the week it's the same idea 
where you reflect your the whole week 
and then you plan for the week and then 
we have the same for the month as well 
um and 
you know one of the most powerful things 
I've done in my life in this 
self-discovery journey was to journal 
because I think when you really reflect 
on yourself and you sit with these 
questions you don't just listen to a 
podcast which is great that's the first 
step but but then you get these prompts 
that we shared with you today and then 
you really sit down and you take five to 
ten minutes and you invest that time in 
yourself you practice that self-love in 
a way right because those insights will 
really help you to to decide on what is 
the next step and I I love kind of 
building these muscles and this 
awareness because that that action will 
help you to become a better person 
I love that and is it a year planner or 
a month what is it six months six months 
okay six months all right you guys I'll 
put a link to the Peak Performance 
planner in the show notes and we can you 
know get to our Peak Performance and 
support Julia and her planner so Julia 
you've been amazing I'm so glad we're 
connected 
um I consider you a new friend and I 
hope to see you when you're in Chicago 
yeah I would love that let's make it 
happen all right well thank you again 
and smart daters for those of you who 
have been immersed in this episode can I 
love it leave it or change it right if 
you're not in love with your dating life 
if you have nothing to leave because 
you're sitting out there single and you 
want to change something think about 
what you can do this week to change 
something in your dating life to change 
yourself for the better right and to 
know that you have the power inside of 
you to take your power back like we 
talked about today so with that I bid 
you farewell well until next week have a 
beautiful week filled with psychotic 
optimism and extra points if you write 
love will come to me it's a when not an 
if and lipstick on your mirror send it 
and I will share it all over the planet 
all right talk to you all later see ya 


I think honestly self-love is an ongoing 
lifelong journey so now that you have 
that just in front of you that is your 
list that's your inventory that's that's 
who you are you know and maybe you want 
to put more emphasis on the things that 
you love about yourself as well right so 
maybe do something that that's good for 
you we all know that we are critical 
enough and we have enough self-talk 
negative self-talk oftentimes about the 
things that we don't love about 
ourselves so why not celebrate the other 
side and bring that more into our 
Consciousness because our brain is wired 
to think negatively and to to have a you 
know yeah a survival bias and so your 
brain will always show you the negative 
things anyway so why not train your 
brain and the muscle because your brain 
at the end of the day is a muscle as 
well to think more positively 


you know I did a fair amount of dating 
but just never really quite met the 
right guy a lot of my friends in their 
you know late 20s were starting to pair 
up and you know get married and but I 
made a conscious decision to just find 
someone who's going to enhance my life 
not like just finding a guy to check a 
box and get married and and have 
children but then I really got to a 
point where I when I reached out to you 
was I want a partner in my life so I 
think I have found the right balance 
it's been a great journey not every 
single day is perfect but like I think I 
told you he's you know the lid for my 
pot but sometimes the lid you know pops 
off needs to get readjusted 
exactly 


[Music] 
a couple days ago I get a text dear 
Bella have you ever had a client that 
was on a dating app and saw someone 
else's significant other or someone that 
they're dating on a dating app do I tell 
the person I told someone once and they 
stopped talking to me what do I do 
before you Lop this Grenade on someone 
else or really think about how close is 
your relationship to this person are you 
comfortable that this person would trust 
you do you have this person's best 
intentions at heart and once you really 
take accountability of those questions 
then by all means feel free to have the 
courage to tell that person I think I 
might see be seeing something I don't 
know if it's true but I wanted you to 
know what I saw 


during the summer you can see that 
online dating numbers usually 
historically decrease around 25 to 30 
percent people take breaks from dating 
although we hear a lot about summer love 
there's a lot of low in the dating pool 
so get excited the dating market is 
about to heat up again so what i wanted 
to talk to you about today are eight 
what i call small changes that are going 
to lead to big results in your dating 
life these are little things and these 
are things that lindsay eileen and i 
coach our clients around on a daily 
basis and i hope that 
one of these two of these or eight of 
these resonate with you and that you can 
start to see i don't have to do 
something massive in order to get 
massive results sometimes it's just 
being at that right place at that right 
time that sliding what do they what is 
that moving sliding doors it's one of 
those moments 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love hey smart 
daters happy August I hope you guys have 
had a great summer we were on vacation 
last week and we went to Asheville North 
Carolina and had never been there and 
you know we dropped my daughter Jaden 
off for school on next week early by the 
time you're you're listening to this 
podcast I will probably be somewhere on 
Route dropping her off to college so we 
wanted to squeeze in one last holiday 
with the kids so we went hiking and 
biking through the Blue Mountains in 
Asheville and if you haven't been it's 
amazing a totally memorable trip and 
we've got so many gorgeous places to see 
in the U.S so if you haven't gotten 
there I highly suggest you think about 
it because we had an amazing time and 
you can always message me and I'll tell 
you all my favorite things to do and our 
own Lindsey Anderson Our dating coach 
gave me all of these tips because her 
family lives in Asheville so 
um so what I want to talk to you about 
today is I can't believe that we're 
almost 
into the middle of August gosh it is the 
middle of August and that means it's 
Labor Day that means it's back to school 
that means Halloween that means 
Thanksgiving and that means Christmas 
and Peak dating season I know it sounds 
so crazy that all of these things are 
coming and this is when the most dating 
fun really starts to happen all year 
during the summer you can see that 
online dating numbers usually 
historically decrease around 25 to 30 
percent people take breaks from dating 
although we hear a lot about summer love 
there's a lot of Lull in the dating pool 
so get excited the dating Market is 
about to heat up again so what I wanted 
to talk to you about today are I think 
I've got eight here eight what I call 
small changes that are going to lead to 
Big results in your dating life 
potentially so these are little things 
and these are things that Lindsay Eileen 
and I coach our clients around on a 
daily basis and I hope hope that one of 
these two of these or eight of these 
resonate with you and that you can start 
to see I don't have to do something 
massive in order to get massive results 
sometimes it's just being at that right 
place at that right time that sliding 
what do they what is that movie the 
sliding doors it's one of those moments 
so so let me jump right into it and tell 
you how you two sitting there on your 
phone swiping maybe you're on your 
desktop right now maybe you're in your 
car listening maybe you're on a walk 
um but I want you to think about Point 
number one which is change your online 
parameters okay 
what does that mean to you it doesn't 
mean starting to settle and emailing 
people you're not attracted to that is 
not what I'm talking about I'm talking 
about think about the things that you 
might be Auto programmed to select how 
old the person you want to be with is 
what radius they live in What ethnicity 
what religions all of these kinds of 
things and sit back and think about hmm 
could I be more flexible and change one 
of my online parameters every year for 
example that you change up in your 
dating search so let's say for example 
you are 42 years old and you've said 
well I'd be comfortable with people that 
are 39 all the way up to 47 well what I 
can tell you is if you go down a year if 
you say 38 and then up to 48 what you've 
done now think about it when you 
increase it just by one year on both 
sides you let in hundreds if not 
thousands of potential new candidates 
into your search because the algorithms 
on sites and apps are very literal okay 
so if you say 47 they're not going to 
show you somebody who's 48 or 49. so you 
can do this with inches in height right 
I'm five foot three right the majority 
of women start their height searches at 
five foot ten if you've watched my TED 
talk you know that tall ideally over six 
feet is the number one aspect that women 
look for in their dream guys so what I'm 
telling you here is you know everybody's 
the same height lying down okay if you 
know what I mean I won't I don't have to 
get graphic with you but so really think 
about wow if my height parameters are 
you know let's say it's Bella I'm five 
foot three and I like to wear four inch 
heels so that would put me at five seven 
so I need someone who's three inches 
taller than me right that's where that 
five foot ten number comes from that's 
why the majority of women start their 
height search at 5 10 and remember the 
average woman height in this country 
across white black Hispanic Asian is 
five foot five for women right so if you 
think about it that's the calculus women 
are doing so 
plus or minus 
give a little flexibility to height 
ladies okay you're not going to be 
wearing four inch heels most of the time 
if you're like me I walk around in 
pretty flat sneakers or sandals or boots 
most of the time my husband which many 
of you know he's five foot five and a 
half maybe five foot six if he really 
like poofs his hair up really high and I 
used to date guys that were all six feet 
tall and I can tell you there's nothing 
wrong with tall there's nothing wrong 
with not tall I'm just saying small 
changes that can lead to Big results so 
if you think about it small changes if 
you guys have been following the podcast 
and listening to the episodes you can 
listen to the episode with Nancy holla 
who told her love story you can listen 
to the um podcast of a couple of weeks 
ago of sugar who told her love story but 
both of these women were very good 
examples of people that changed made 
small changes at the last minute on 
their online profiles which led to that 
last first date which led to Nancy holla 
finding David Bruce why because her 
height search Nancy's six feet tall she 
had her height shirt set at 6-1 and when 
I finally convinced her let's look at 
six feet also Nance because you're in 
Flats most of the time in came David 
Bruce into her search now they're 
happily married with sugar sugar lives 
in 
the city and expanded her radius to 
include northern Milwaukee she lives in 
the city of Chicago so she went I think 
it was 100 miles in her radius that's 
how she met Justin had she not met him 
had he not shown up in her matches they 
would have never met either so really 
think about the little things that you 
might be able to change and remember you 
might go oh I don't want to change the 
height I don't want to change the age 
and we've got so many stories about this 
because my ex was 15 years older than me 
and he was awful and I'm never going to 
date somebody that much older again 
listen sometimes that's correlation not 
causation it's not the big age 
difference that caused the friction in 
your relationship it was a mismatch of 
you know of values to some extent so 
don't make those correlation causation 
errors just promise me that you'll 
change something up in your height in 
your radius something little to see who 
comes into to your inbox okay now change 
number two this is a fun one and this 
idea was generated by my friend and 
Mentor Rachel Greenwald so she wrote a 
book years ago I think it was called um 
how to find a husband after 35 and in 
that she said play a game called Three 
Blind Mice and I love that and it harks 
back to the old uh fairy tale Three 
Blind Mice but what she meant by that is 
get online and find three people that 
you would normally never be interested 
in and just to broaden your own 
parameters if they sound good I'm not 
saying people that have red flags okay 
I'm saying people that you're like okay 
this person isn't quote unquote my 
normal person that I would message 
message three people that aren't quote 
unquote your type right and start a 
conversation with them and see how it 
goes maybe push your boundaries to have 
a video date with one of these people 
remember one of of my most important 
adages in the dating World which every 
one of my clients and there's been 
thousands of Smart dating Academy can 
attest to love will always come to you 
in an unexpected package so if you need 
another way to just shake yourself up 
and push your boundaries a little bit 
Play Three Blind Mice find somebody 
who's got a profession that's very 
different than yours maybe an 
educational level that's very different 
than yours maybe their religion is 
different than yours I don't know what 
that is but people that you wouldn't 
normally connect with and just find 
places to connect with and challenge 
yourself to find three things that you 
like about this person when you start to 
have conversations these things guys 
they really can change our psyches and 
you'll start to see wow I never thought 
someone who lived in blah blah would be 
ever be like someone I would even like 
but I really want to be friends with 
this person I never thought someone who 
you know was an HVAC person would be a 
good fit for me as a dating coach or 
pretend it's me but we had so many 
things in common and we ended up growing 
up in the same city you never know so 
play Three Blind Mice online that's 
something you can do today and message 
three people that you wouldn't be likely 
to and be proud of yourself for changing 
things up now 
Point number three in small changes that 
you can make for big big results is I 
want you to change something internally 
I want you to change your story whatever 
that story is we all have what I call 
that crazy person that sits inside of us 
that squawks at us all the time you're 
too old you're too fat you've got too 
many kids you're damaged you're never 
married people are going to think you're 
a commitophobe you've been married too 
many times you've been divorced four 
times nobody's ever going to deal with 
that so all of that stuff we want to 
change our story around that so 
we've got these things that just play on 
repeat and they tend to bring us down 
right so change the story of the things 
that you're telling yourself that are 
keeping you stuck keeping you stopped 
keeping you in a negative place or I 
actually have a good story for you 
around changing your story so I had a 
client some years ago named Jill who 
lives in New York and 
Jill liked to go to singles events but 
she quickly got frustrated because she 
said you know what when I go to these 
singles events there's usually like 25 
women and two guys right it's a total 
bus I did my hair I did my makeup I got 
my nails done I dressed up and I went to 
this event and there were no dudes right 
and the two dudes that were there were 
you know best friends with each other 
and never talked to anybody else so here 
what I told Jill to do was change her 
story look at the other 24 women in the 
room as potential new friends and 
importantly matchmakers for you so she 
said well what does that mean I said if 
you've got 24 other women in there each 
of them knows at least one to two single 
men that they couldn't date maybe it's 
their brother maybe it's their cousin 
maybe it's their ex that was a great guy 
but just not right for them for whatever 
reason women are inherently really good 
matchmakers okay so I said she change 
your story and when you walk into the 
next party or the next event walk in 
with an open mind and get to know as 
many women as you can and be interested 
and interesting so she met she went to a 
birthday party with my advice in her 
head that weekend and she said Okay most 
of the people here are couples and okay 
she says but I'm gonna talk to every 
person here like they could be a new 
friend or a new Matchmaker so she 
approaches this woman named Sarah and 
Sarah and Jill start talking and so 
Sarah said well you know tell me about 
you and Jill who is very open she says 
oh well one of the best things I've done 
in the last couple months is I've hired 
a dating coach so Sarah says what's a 
dating coach right and so Jill starts 
talking about what we do at Smart dating 
Academy and Sarah said oh my gosh I 
think I would love to become a dating 
coach so Sarah went on to think about 
becoming a dating coach and a Matchmaker 
through her conversation with Jill and 
Sarah had an amazing brother named John 
and John was a corporate executive by 
day and he also did stand-up comedy by 
night and she said Jill I think you're 
so awesome and you're single and my 
brother John is single and he's really 
smart and he does stand up and for those 
of you that haven't done stand-up comedy 
it's really really hard and it takes a 
lot of courage to do that and so Sarah 
set Joe up on dates with her brother so 
look at what happened Jill changed the 
story that she was telling herself about 
singles events that are populated with 
only women being a bust she changed her 
mindset and boom walked into a party and 
walked out of there with a set up date 
and had converted someone into a day 
coach which is amazing right so so Point 
number four small changes that lead to 
Big results right if you're going online 
at the same time every single day change 
it up okay if you do it every day from 
your desk you know at work or let's say 
you can't do it at work every day you're 
doing it at 10 pm after you've gone to 
the gym after you've cleaned up your 
kitchen after cooking after after after 
change it up maybe wake up 15 minutes 
earlier than you normally do in the 
morning where you can look at it with 
fresh eyes maybe right after you work 
out and you're having your green juice 
or your vanilla coffee I love vanilla 
coffee so that one just came to my mind 
so think about doing things at a 
different time because the algorithms 
show you different people at different 
times of the day so if you want to look 
at a different group of people it's like 
thinking about walking into a shopping 
mall right if you walk into a shopping 
mall at 10 A.M you're going to see a 
very different group of people than you 
are potentially going to see at 6 PM 
right because at 10 A.M you might see 
moms that are there with their kids or 
retired people that are there for their 
walks but if you go at 6 PM you might 
see people that are leaving work that 
are going to the mall and so I give you 
the same analogy for online dating 
change it up you might see a different 
cop of people just based on how our 
algorithms are working at that time so 
and you know it just sometimes changes 
up your energy too when you do something 
different you have different Renewed 
Energy so maybe as you go online at a 
different time you're going to see 
people differently and in a more 
positive life because you've got the 
dopamine of doing something different 
you're excited right so you've got a 
little bit of adrenaline so change up 
the time that you go online and you will 
see that you'll probably start to see 
some different people and Vary that up 
all the time you guys on a side note I 
love intermittent fasting and what I can 
tell you is people always ask me what do 
you do for fasting I change things up 
all the time just to keep my body 
guessing right and I want to give you 
that same analogy here for maintaining 
check your apps at different times to 
keep the algorithms showing you new 
people and to keep a little adrenaline 
floating through your system and on that 
number five small changes that lead to 
Big results if you'll work with me on 
this one I think you're going to love 
this change if you haven't done it 
already turn off notifications on social 
media as especially your dating apps I'm 
out sometimes with my friends and I see 
how their phones blow up every time 
somebody posts something on Facebook or 
comments on a post or Instagram their 
phone continues to buzz all the time I 
have no notifications on my phone 
because I would go bananas looking at 
that now with the dating apps same thing 
shut the push notifications off so that 
you're only seeing notifications for 
people that you've matched with or 
getting messages when you actually log 
on to the app every time you look at 
your phone and there's a notification 
you feel compelled because that's what 
they do with phones they want the 
technology to addict us right shut off 
the notifications on your phone give 
your brain a break from dating apps and 
from social media so that you are in 
control you've got the drivers you've 
got the steering wheel you're in the 
driver's seat of when and how you want 
to look at social media or your dating 
app so 
small change that leads to Big result 
number six change your dating site or 
dating app every one to three months 
okay so many of you throw a few photos 
up write some text have the app open and 
you just leave it there add infinitum 
you don't change anything that you're 
doing on the app and you certainly don't 
change the app itself well what I want 
to tell you is don't marry yourself no 
pun intended to any one site or app have 
a fluid strategy and a lot of the sites 
will try to incent you to buy 
memberships for a longer term and giving 
you a lower monthly rate just do it on a 
monthly basis if you're going to do it 
because give it 30 days give it 60 days 
see how it goes and that then will give 
you the space number one to focus only 
on that cider app or maybe just two at 
the same time that's all I ever 
recommend and then at the end of that 30 
or 60 days then you can look at another 
site and another app have a whole new 
peel 
um have a whole new pipeline of people 
potentially because it's a different app 
and you'll have a renewed Vigor and 
energy because you're on a new site or a 
new app and anything new leads to 
excitement leads to Adrenaline leads to 
us feeling really like more attracted to 
the people that we're seeing so that's 
what I would say keep it fluid right so 
that you can always try something 
different you can try paid sites you can 
try free sites you can try the upgrades 
do things that work best for you now 
Small Change number seven and this is 
especially for you working guys and 
working gals don't go straight from day 
to date okay change things up by 
changing your outfit change up your look 
this doesn't sound like a lot but trust 
me it is we say I'm gonna go to The 
Powder Room to freshen up go home and 
freshen up your look or if you have to 
be in an office bring a new look with 
you okay at least transform your day 
look into your night look one of our 
clients throws on her Berry lip and that 
is her signal and she's got a special 
red that she uses for her dates so 
whenever you do that change up your look 
cue yourself that you're actually going 
to do something personal for yourself 
this is not a date it's not a 
professional meeting it's not you know 
your condo association board meeting put 
yourself in a dating mindset have five 
different things that you do maybe as 
your date looks maybe guys if you've got 
throw on a sport coat always always for 
a date women love that look when you are 
stepped up and you look like the man 
with the plan your date's gonna go a 
hell of a lot better than if you show up 
looking you know slumpy dumpy like 
you've worked at home all day or even 
worked worse couch surfed right and for 
ladies same thing you know when you see 
people that are walking out of their 
offices and 5 30 at 5 30 in Chicago or 
Manhattan or LA and you can just see the 
stench of work on them they've got their 
work outfit on and maybe flip-flops or 
gym shoes change that up freshen 
yourself up not just by putting on new 
lipstick but you might want to do a full 
outfit change just to judge yourself up 
Spritz on a little perfume a little 
cologne judge up your hair change your 
look believe me changing your look will 
change your mindset and potentially lead 
to you feeling sexier more handsome more 
beautiful and therefore radiating that 
confidence and what's intoxicating and 
sexy and magnetic is your own personal 
confidence there is nothing more 
intoxicating more flirtatious or more 
attractive than being with somebody who 
is self-confident in their own skin and 
I know every one of you listening to 
this is very beautiful and very handsome 
and I'm just so glad to be chatting with 
you about this one-on-one and the last 
change that I want to tell you about and 
this is a big change right small changes 
that lead to Big results right change 
the internal clock that you have that is 
constantly putting pressure on yourself 
to find love in a certain period of time 
okay 
we work with clients for example on a 
one-on-one basis usually for six months 
or 12 months but one of the first things 
I tell clients that want to work with us 
is turn the time clock off just because 
you're signing up for six months or 12 
months with us doesn't mean for example 
that you're going to find love in that 
time it means that you are going to undo 
old habits and put new ones in their 
place and learn how to do this the right 
way and you're going to have guardian 
angels for six months or 12 months but 
get that time clock out of your head 
that I need to find love in six months 
or 12 months and for you sit back and 
think about it what do I tell myself oh 
my God I'm turning the big 6-0 or 
whatever that big number is for you for 
some of you I talk to people that are 29 
I talk to people I had a client in the 
studio today that's 69 years old and 
turning those numbers sometimes the big 
3-0 or the big 7-0 can really feel like 
a lot and oh my gosh the whole dating 
world is going to change the minute I 
have to say I'm 30 or I'm 70. that's a 
story that you're telling yourself okay 
it's not true I've done research on 
people that have understated their age 
by seven years and looked at the same at 
the results that they were getting when 
they had their truthful age they didn't 
get any better or any more results by 
lying about their age okay so stop 
that internal clock right finding love 
is a journey you don't want to settle 
for somebody if you're feeling lonely 
think about all of the love that you 
have around you you have love you have 
the love for yourself you have the love 
that your friends and your family and 
your co-workers and your neighbors and 
the people in your inner Village have 
for you you're not lacking for love 
right you're on the Quest for romantic 
love so whenever you say I'm lonely I'd 
be so much better off if I had love you 
do have love and remember that so I want 
you to change that internal clock that 
you have by telling yourself what being 
a psychotic Optimist what's our Mantra 
love will come to me it's when it's not 
an if and I am in it to win it because 
dating and finding love is a marathon 
hell it's an ultra marathon it is not a 
Sprint so I hope that phase eight small 
changes that I've gone through will help 
you to get some new results if not big 
results in your dating life and as we 
get into Peak dating season we love 
coaching people one-on-one it's what we 
do best you've heard the love stories if 
you need some help if you need some love 
you've been following this podcast 
follow me at smartdatingacademy on 
Instagram WE Post twice a day and you'll 
get lots of fun you know whiz kid tips 
about dating you'll see lots of reels 
you'll see lots of things in my stories 
sign up for a free newsletter go to 
smartdatingacademy.com fill out any form 
and you'll be entered in to get our 
newsletter or most importantly go to our 
one-on-one coaching page and sign up 
invest in yourself sign up for a 
consultation for 30 minutes or 60 
minutes and we I promise you will start 
to set you on the right foot for your 
dating life so I bid you today farewell 
if you love this episode sewed please 
write a great review I would love that 
so much we're always trying to give you 
the best content so when you let us know 
what resonates with you it means the 
absolute world and share this download 
it do all of the things and until next 
week I send you big love Fairy Godmother 
Vibes psychotically optimistic Juju love 
is out there for you my friend it is a 
when not an if and you are in it to win 
it 
have a great week 


michelle roberts dr roberts she's a 
psychotherapist a journalist and a 
professor and her work focuses on the 
intersection of culture relationships 
and modern narcissism did your study 
show correlation between people that had 
early childhood trauma and people that 
would accept the narcissistic abuse 
trauma reenactment theory which is 
vander cult's theory maintains that this 
subconscious attraction to familiar 
trauma whether they're experienced as a 
child or adult or both it's repeated on 
behavioral emotional physiological and 
neuroendocrine levels so this isn't just 
something that you choose this is really 
something that is in your nervous system 
people can heal from this but it sounds 
like there's some really 
exciting things that can be done to make 
life better 


it's 
keep 
dating season 
now 
you might think to yourself is there 
really a peak dating season and the 
answer is a resounding 
oh yes there is get yourself into the 
right mindset and you know what that 
mindset is called 
it's called 
psychotic 
optimism yes i said it psychotic 
optimism what does that mean 
it means i want you to think about your 
dating life as if you've already 
achieved love okay love exists for me 
it's when it's not an if 
i know that the lid to my pot is out 
there and all i have to do is date 
like crazy 


how do you educate people on are you in 
a toxic relationship or is this a you 
problem okay so this is my favorite 
question because this always surprises 
everyone if you go on any social media 
platform the word toxic is everywhere 
and because it's everywhere it has 
really made people believe that there's 
a checklist that goes with toxic you 
know um if they're toxic they must fit 
this box this box this box this box and 
this box and in reality what we miss is 
we are the ones that get to decide who 
is healthy for us and who is not it 
doesn't make a difference if they're 
checking boxes or not checking boxes if 
it's not feeling good to you you get to 
make the decision on whether that person 
stays in your life or at what level they 
stay in your life and we really don't 
think or realize that we we are the ones 
that make that decision 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love welcome to this 
week's super fire super hot episode 
where I have with us somebody who is 
going to build your dating confidence no 
matter who you are what the number on 
your age is what the number on the scale 
is I don't care but I'm so happy to 
introduce my friend and personal trainer 
Stephanie Mansour Steph welcome thank 
you Bella I'm I'm gonna read a little 
bit about Stephanie so you guys know 
that we're bringing the we're bringing a 
real heavyweight on here and I don't 
mean that physically no pun intended but 
she really Steph really knows her stuff 
stuff is a nationally recognized health 
and fitness expert and she's the host of 
her own show called step it up with 
stuff you can see her basically 
everywhere if you're alive and have it 
pulse steps on The Today Show she's been 
on Dr us CNN Fox ABC and NBC basically 
everywhere on Earth and you know Steph 
reaches more than 52 million viewers per 
month so Steph welcome again and we're 
so excited to have you because building 
dating confidence is something we work 
on at Smart dating Academy and I know in 
your practice it's really really 
important so tell us you know kind of 
tell us what you do with coaching 
clients being single dating Fitness like 
give us all the things and then we'll 
get into it okay great Bella well I love 
your podcast and I'm so happy that we're 
doing this so thank you very much and I 
know the clients I have sent your way 
are so happy with you as as their leader 
too so our feelings are mutual 
oh I'm so glad to hear that well and you 
know many of my clients are you know 
struggling with their weight so as a 
weight loss coach I do focus on the nuts 
and bolts of how we can lose weight the 
nutritional side that physical side with 
the workouts but also the emotional side 
and the spiritual side because many of 
my clients fellow are very successful in 
their careers and and their go-getters 
they're driven but half of them you know 
are happily married and the other half 
are single and not happy about it so 
they feel like losing weight and 
reclaiming their health and their 
Fitness and their self-care is the 
missing ticket before they feel 
confident enough to start dating but 
what I try to do is I try to help my 
clients to get all these things going in 
tandem so we can date while we're losing 
weight even if we're not at the exact 
place that we want to be with our bodies 
physically we can still feel confident 
in knowing that we're working on it and 
we can still actively date at the same 
time because I know you know life is 
short time to go after what you want 
don't use any you know excuses I call 
them to hold you back don't let your 
weight hold you back how you look how 
you feel feel about your weight or how 
you feel about your size and just focus 
on being the best you possible every 
single moment so I really work with my 
clients on that Bella and I just love 
that we're going to be having that 
conversation today and that's all I 
couldn't agree with you more on 
everything that you're saying you know 
at Smart dating Academy is as you well 
know we help people with the dating 
process and one of the steps in our 
process is they come to Chicago to get 
their photos done for like having great 
you know natural not cheesy Glam shots 
but like cool lifestyle shots for online 
dating and every single person literally 
regardless of what one would think was 
overweight or what someone else wouldn't 
be like oh my God you're so thin nobody 
comes to me saying I'm so I'm So 
Satisfied with how I look it's always oh 
my gosh do you think I should lose that 
last five do you think I should lose 50. 
do you think I should be doing this and 
it's such a big issue for both women as 
well as men quite frankly so I know that 
that's why I wanted to have you on here 
to talk to people about how to be 
physically fit emotionally fit 
spiritually fit and I know that you've 
got what you call kind of five 
counter-intuitive ways to kind of 
committing to feeling good about 
yourself to being more physically fit 
and emotionally fit so tell us tell us 
your first one yes so my first one Bella 
is to commit to be fit and the reason 
why this is counterintuitive is because 
I'm not just talking about physically 
being fit I'm not just talking about you 
know going on a walk to feel better or 
committing to a workout regimen or doing 
strength training to tone your arms I'm 
talking about being mentally fit as well 
so if you're constantly talking 
negatively to yourself and you you know 
I have clients that come to me too they 
either want to lose five pounds or maybe 
50 pounds you could not tell the 
difference between the self-talk of 
someone that's five pounds away from 
their goal weight versus 50 pounds it is 
still body shaming coming from the 
source and beating ourselves up and 
talking negatively and saying you know 
gosh why did you eat that or why can't I 
fit into this you know outfit it's that 
sort of you know beating up we do to 
ourselves no matter how much weight you 
want to lose and the self-talk is is 
very similar so committing to be fit not 
only do I want you to commit to you know 
how to move your body every single day 
this could be a walk around the block or 
this could be a more intense workout 
regimen but I also want you to commit to 
be mentally fit and in doing that I 
encourage my clients to write down 
positive affirmations about themselves 
and write these affirmation sound as if 
they are in the present day tense so if 
your goal is to be you know a size 10. 
then I want you to write out I am 
happily a size 10. and I want you to see 
it and that's going to help sink into 
your subconscious so that you start 
believing it and that is part of being 
mentally fit Bella oh I love that and 
stuff when somebody does kind of trash 
themselves in a way I always say if you 
wouldn't say it to your best friend why 
would you say it to yourself and when 
somebody let's say you know asking for a 
friend here if somebody if somebody digs 
into you know a bag of pita chips or 
something or a piece of chocolate cake 
and then you're telling yourself at the 
end of the day oh my God I totally 
failed I blew it today I suck I can't do 
anything I don't keep promises to myself 
how do you help someone to get back on 
track to catch that self-trash talk and 
how do you re-rail it like tell me like 
a hack for that yes so what I recommend 
is the second that you catch yourself 
saying something negative to yourself I 
want you to slap yourself on the wrist 
like like maybe a little kid who's like 
touching you know a a hot stove slap 
yourself on the wrist do something 
physical that's gonna really catch your 
attention stop relax your shoulders take 
a deep breath and say I'm choosing not 
to beat myself up so literally stop in 
your tracks do something physical so 
that it shocks your brain and then move 
on from there now you bring up an 
interesting point Bella because a lot of 
times you know if we're finding 
ourselves eating sort of uncontrollably 
or going for the junk food or having 
more than one serving of the pita chips 
oftentimes this is because we are not 
eating enough protein so especially as 
women to speed up our metabolisms and as 
we get older we need to be eating 
protein every three to four hours to 
keep our blood sugar levels up here 
rather than having those Peaks and 
valleys those ups and downs because when 
we're on a down part that's when we 
crave and overeat but carbs the sugar 
the unhealthy fats so I also you know 
bringing this a step further if you find 
that you're caught in that trash talking 
from eating junk food or overeating food 
uh it may actually not be a matter of 
willpower it's maybe more so a physical 
you know your body physically needs more 
fuel 
yeah and in addition to that and I love 
eating protein every three to four hours 
and you put that into my my mental piggy 
bank but also ask yourself in that 
moment you know weight is something I've 
always struggled with since I was a kid 
and now what I've learned to do is ask 
myself what do I need right now 
do I need more pita chips am I eating my 
feelings what do I need and how is this 
instant gratification this is my new one 
is instant gratification going to lead 
to worldwide domination no it's just 
funny I read that somewhere and I was 
like okay is this extra serving of pita 
chips really what do I need right now do 
I need to de-stress am I anxious about 
something do I need to journal do I need 
to call my mom and chat with her or talk 
to my husband do I need to go work out 
what do I need in this moment because 
it's not the food if I'm not hungry yes 
yes and you know to piggyback off that 
Bella I have a client um she was she's 
an executive CEO she was in her low 50s 
and she would come home from every every 
work day and Order carryout mostly a 
pizza and then have you know she would 
say one glass of wine she would have the 
whole bottle of wine and what I 
encouraged her to do is to try to view 
her post-work evenings not in reaction 
to work so not to become you know a 
vegetable on the couch but how can she 
actually rejuvenate what does she need 
to feel de-stressed Unwound and more 
feminine and softer and more relaxed so 
just in changing that mentality we were 
able to shift her you know gradually 
into wanting to make something nutrition 
for nutritious for herself into wanting 
to order an expensive kale salad instead 
of you know pizza and breadstick from 
Domino's so really focusing on like what 
do you need to feel good is is a very 
you know simple but often overlooked 
tack to to you know being mentally fit 
yeah absolutely and it might be as 
simple as you need a hug you need a kale 
salad but really ask yourself and catch 
yourself in the moment what do I really 
need so I love that be committing to 
Being Fit physically and mentally that's 
a great one and Steph you say that we 
should commit to 
owning our own self-care tell me what is 
that yes so again many of my clients are 
very very busy and they're getting a 
massage you know every two months I get 
a massage almost every week because it's 
like the one thing that makes me feel so 
good so I really am regimented about my 
own self-care and you know prior to 
doing step it up with Steph and getting 
into health and wellness I was 25 pounds 
overweight I could not lose it for the 
life of me I was trying diets and 
workout plans and it wasn't until I 
really started to do you know slower 
calm or breath work I started doing more 
self-acceptance exercises studying 
psychology and women's studies and and 
really focusing on me and who I am and 
what I need so one of the things that I 
work on with my clients is how can they 
own their self-care and integrate it 
into their lives so 
um you know not to you're the date coach 
here but I I will say you know when men 
see that you are prioritizing your 
self-care when you're like oh you know I 
would love to go you know out Tuesday 
night but I actually have my massage or 
oh I'm going to get my nails done or oh 
I have this workout class but I could 
meet you 30 minutes after the proposed 
time when they see that you're owning 
your own self-care it actually you know 
this you know makes makes you more 
attractive to them but it also makes you 
more attractive to yourself so being 
able to you know I've dated for a number 
of years and um you know I didn't have 
this issue with self-care but when it 
came to things like my hobbies you know 
oh well maybe I could skip that you know 
tennis game that night so I could go 
meet this guy or maybe I could you know 
Skip my singing lesson to to go on a 
date you know but the more I was 
committed to the things that I wanted 
that made me happy the better I was able 
to attract men who also upheld how I was 
caring for myself not not only with the 
self care but also you know with my 
hobbies so that's great and and you're 
right we respect people that respect 
themselves yes right and it's okay to 
say if somebody says do you want to meet 
out for dinner it's okay to say you know 
what I'm trying to stay light this week 
I would love to hang out how about we go 
for a walk and we can grab some coffee 
afterwards right people are so receptive 
to those things and oftentimes what I 
found in trying to turn my own health 
regime around this here is when you are 
when you when you tell someone that 
candidly they're like oh my God me too I 
would much rather go for a walk than 
meet out for wine even though who 
doesn't like meeting out for wine right 
to be honest I certainly do but then 
when you when you put that out there 
like I'm trying to take care of myself 
that usually inspires people to say me 
too and so 
um I I like that and then we can keep 
our promises to ourselves which is so 
important important and that comes back 
to your first point committing to Being 
Fit and treat yourself like you would 
others guys if you you would in order to 
have relationships if you make a promise 
you have to keep your promise you have 
to keep your word and there's no more 
important relationship than you with 
yourself and so if you commit to doing 
the thing whether it's to Being Fit to 
doing the meditation to you know doing 
the singing lesson or the tennis game 
keep your promises to yourself 
so attractive so attractive and stuff 
you say then 
connect to your big reason why talk 
about this yes so oftentimes my clients 
you know when we start talking about 
dating their reason why they want to 
lose weight is so they can date if 
they're single and so they can feel 
confident to date so I you know me Bella 
I'm like digging deep deep okay well why 
don't you feel confident now okay why do 
you feel like the weight is holding you 
back why do you feel like someone's not 
gonna like you even though you're 
actively losing weight you know we dig 
dig dig so I want you to commit to your 
big reason why like why do you want to 
be healthier to lose weight to exercise 
more whatever your goal is why do you 
want to do that what's your big reason 
why and nine times out of ten it's 
because they want to feel good about 
themselves and you know it's not like I 
want to lose 10 pounds because I hate my 
body like that's not the big reason why 
the big reason why is I want to lose 10 
pounds because I want to feel proud of 
myself accomplished I want to feel good 
about myself so if you keep you know 
hitting yourself over the head with that 
saying that's going to keep it at the 
Forefront of your brain so then you are 
more naturally inclined to say you know 
what yes I would like to meet you but I 
can't meet till 7 30 because I got to go 
to my workout class 
I love that and every time when you're 
connected to your why and your deepest 
level of why it becomes very easy to 
talk yourself into keeping that 
commitment and talk yourself out of 
breaking that commitment because if my 
why is I want to feel right sized in my 
body and I want to feel confident when 
I'm on dates then I'm going to keep 
those promises to myself and not dig 
into the bag of Cheetos or whatever that 
is because I'm connected to my why 
instead of connecting to the instant 
gratification that I might need in that 
moment and that gets back to why do I 
want to have the second helping of this 
I'm really stressed out what would make 
me feel less stressed and not beat 
myself up an hour later right is this 
going to make me feel better or worse in 
an hour yeah powerful questions to ask 
yourself and if it's not going to make 
you feel better in an hour don't do it 
right connect to your why and then have 
that plan and that set of questions you 
can ask yourself is this my why am I 
being consistent am I keeping my promise 
to myself and go do something else and 
most likely your hunger will stop 
grumbling really quickly or go eat some 
protein like stuff said right yes 
and and Steph you say that we should you 
know to kind of build our dating 
confidence overall or build our 
confidence in ourselves we should share 
our self-care and or our health routine 
now how it what does that mean and how 
do we do that without seeming like we're 
like tmiing somebody right 
well I say I sit in my clients Bella who 
are actively you know losing weight and 
want to be with a partner who is active 
and who does value their health but 
maybe they feel like right now they 
personally don't look the part in quotes 
So what I recommend is that you know in 
your conversation on your dates you 
share things that you're doing that you 
know not like word vomiting like oh like 
you know my my Apple watch says I burned 
500 calories and my muscle mass is now 
this you know not not that I love that 
I'd be like oh my God tell me more mind 
you I 
but you know that's what I do so we geek 
out over this stuff though right but you 
know like say oh yeah you know I started 
working out with a trainer and it's been 
like a high if someone says you know 
what what'd you do this week or what'd 
you do last weekend oh you know I 
actually started working out with the 
trainer and I I'm really enjoying how I 
feel in my workouts or like oh what's 
your favorite food 
um you know I would say I love I love 
fries but you know when I try to be 
healthy I ate more sweet potato fries 
you know like share little nuts and you 
know nuggets about the things that 
you're doing with your date especially 
if you're still feeling self-conscious 
about where you're at in your own health 
Journey 
um because that's going to show the 
person that you take your health 
seriously even if you feel like you 
don't look that way it's still going to 
communicate to that person that this is 
like a a normal part of your life and if 
they want to be with you then you know 
they need to have a little bit of 
Interest or focus on it themselves as 
well 
I love that and it puts you in a 
position of looking strong right even if 
you say yeah I've started working out 
with the trainer and maybe you feel like 
you know you're over the weight that you 
want to be and you're putting that out 
there it also shows a level of promise 
and respect and of of commitment to 
yourself and it shows that you are 
taking active steps to take care of 
yourself and so I think those are great 
conversations to be able to have on 
dates where you can really get to know 
each other at a deeper level and then 
support each other and it's like oh my 
gosh I'm trying to do that too or I 
would love to work out with the trainer 
who's who are you working out with what 
are you doing how do you feel and it's 
so great because I think at the end of 
the day most of us kind of get into that 
category where we beat ourselves up yeah 
we all want to make improvements so 
sharing your routine from a position of 
strength shows that I'm aware of myself 
and I'm actively trying to change and be 
better right that's so attractive yes I 
agree 
that is sin I love this next tip that 
you have about being flexible I could 
certainly use uh some advice around this 
tell me about what it means to be 
flexible and how you help people to do 
that and to get your confidence you know 
Bella this is this is another 
counter-intuitive tip because most times 
when you think about you know okay 
losing weight be or being healthy 
working out more eating healthier you 
know you think of like a very rigid plan 
a formulaic you know program so that you 
can't break yeah you cannot break oh my 
gosh you know I'm doing dry January or 
I'm doing Whole30 or I'm doing 
um you know 5 a.m workout every day or 
I'm going this 7 PM yoga class you know 
we're very like All or Nothing many of 
us you know by Nature 
um so so the flexibility piece and this 
kind of goes against one of my other 
tips but you know the flexibility piece 
if someone is trying to actively make 
plans with you you to go out on a date 
and if your life is very full and 
especially with the self-care you know 
it's getting Fuller if you do need to 
make time and prioritize a date then you 
can be flexible with let's say that 
scheduled workout or that meal plan for 
example one of my clients was doing 
Whole30 
um which also basically dry January and 
her um this guy she was going out with 
had made reservations for a Linea and it 
was a surprise if you made them like two 
months in advance and she was like Steph 
I just like I should be so excited but I 
feel so stressed out I don't know what 
to do and I was like you know what this 
is balance this is flexibility this is 
part of our like softer feminine energy 
go have fun you know enjoy elenia this 
is huge like you've been wanting a guy 
that wants to take you I'm getting 
Goosebumps just thinking about this 
again Bella but you know being being 
flexible and letting yourself off the 
hook sometimes 
um is is really helpful when it comes to 
being committed to your health and 
wellness Journey 
um and you know this is she did you know 
be flexible with the food if we need to 
be flexible with a workout time then 
just be flexible switch your time to 
maybe the next day or maybe earlier in 
the day or maybe flip flop a couple 
things around not all the time but if 
push comes to shove and if you are 
feeling like your schedules too jammed 
you need to make time for that date you 
can move around your commitments to 
yourself 
that's right I love that life is go with 
the flow especially when you're out 
there and you're dating right and if 
someone asks you out and let's say you 
know you're an intermittent faster 
that'd be me and you don't want to eat 
dinner tonight because you're gonna do 
like a big lunch and then you know wait 
till tomorrow to eat but if if that's 
the case be gentle with yourself and 
just say you know what I'm gonna pick 
this up tomorrow because this is a great 
opportunity to spend time with this 
person and be okay with that because 
ultimately building your confidence and 
building you know a healthful mindful 
lifestyle requires flexibility we can't 
become so rigidly attached to something 
because as soon as you're rigidly 
attached and I've been through every 
weight loss everything in the book so I 
could talk about every way I've beaten 
myself up but as soon as you think oh my 
gosh I can't do this I can't eat the 
fries today I can't have over blah blah 
calories or whatever it is you 
immediately start to berate yourself 
yeah you do that and now you're on a 
date that person is going to feel that 
energy shift with you right they're 
gonna feel that energy shift so if you 
agree to go to a Linea do what's going 
to make you feel good when you go to a 
Linea keep your energy High because if 
you start to beat yourself up the person 
across the table is going to say hey 
what's wrong I sense you're a little off 
is everything okay and you don't want to 
do that at that point commit to tomorrow 
is another day right exactly yes and and 
knowledge is power so when you know that 
that's what you're gonna do you're gonna 
feel more empowered to recommit the next 
day so when you know that you can be 
flexible it gives you more of a pass a 
little more like loose grip on the Rope 
to be able to you know feel good that 
you can tell yourself what to do rather 
than the diet tells you or the workout 
plan tells you or the trainer tells you 
exactly guys eating one extra meal or 
missing workout is not going to make you 
gain a pound right I promise you okay so 
be gentle with yourself make those big 
commitments like stuff saying commit 
yourself commit to your self-care commit 
to your Fitness mentally and physically 
catch your negative self-talk like she's 
given us so many gems already but wait 
there's more because I asked Steph to 
also give us five healthy and fun hacks 
that we can do to commit to our 
emotional and physical fitness before a 
date so Steph tell us tell us these 
things because I know we're all 
listening and going okay how do I do 
this and build my confidence and feel 
good and feel fit before a date yes okay 
so I've got five but you could be an 
overachiever and do all five if you want 
or you can be an amazing woman and just 
do one of them so the first one is 
positive affirmations in the mirror so 
this kind of goes back to like making 
your own Mantra and owning your 
self-care but what I like to do is put a 
sticky note on my bathroom mirror that 
says I am awesome or I am hot or I am 
cool or whatever I feel like I need to 
hear as I'm in the mirror getting ready 
that's what I that's what I put on a 
sticky note on my mirror so that I'm 
looking at my face and I'm seeing the 
sticky note I have my clients do this as 
well 
um you know you could change the sticky 
note before every date whatever you're 
feeling in the moment write it in big 
bold letters with the magic marker on 
put it on your mirror the next tip is 
some sort of workout now you might be 
saying stuff I don't even have time like 
I can hardly curl my hair so how can I 
even do a workout you know this could be 
just something that gets you into your 
body so if you're in the bathroom 
curling your hair do some calf raises 
get up onto your tiptoes it feel your 
muscles engaging you could also pretend 
like someone's punching you in the 
stomach so you pulse your abs in you 
pull your abs in tight not while you're 
doing your lipstick or mascara but you 
know just pull your abs in maybe when 
you're brushing your hair if you do have 
time for a five minute workout research 
does show Bella that exercising for just 
five minutes boosts your confidence and 
your self-esteem so you look at yourself 
in the mirror and you think about 
yourself differently after just a five 
minute workout I love that you can do 50 
jumping jacks totally yes you can do 50 
jumping jacks some squats right do some 
knee push-ups right yes and suddenly 
you've got endorphins and you know 
probably some dopamine right through you 
so I'm a huge huge fan of of some sort 
of workout some sort of movement and it 
doesn't even have to be stuff right it 
doesn't have to be right before the date 
it can be sometime during the day I mean 
hell if you can build in a little one 
right before right that's great but it's 
like the day of the day you don't have 
to do this while you're getting ready if 
you can and do a walk do a run do a bike 
ride sometime that day you'll reap the 
benefits of it even during your date yes 
absolutely it'll carry you through for 
at least 12 hours so even in the morning 
is is fine oh my gosh I just getting 
back to positive affirmations yeah you 
know one that I thought of and I want to 
share for all of you singles men and 
women out there maybe an affirmation on 
your mirror could say I am sexy and 
confident in my body yeah period put 
that on your mirror okay and I want you 
to say that to yourself because as soon 
as you say I am sexy and confident 
you're going to switch yourself into 
that mindset shift so affirmations like 
stuffs that are important so if you guys 
need a concrete hack take mine I am sexy 
and confident in my body write that down 
slap it on your mirror I want to hear 
those slaps right now and put it on your 
mirror so okay let's go into your your 
hack number three stuff okay hack number 
three goes back to what we were talking 
about Bella about the food and 
stabilizing blood sugar levels so you 
can show up to a date like very fatigued 
or you could show up maybe a little too 
hyper and both of those things can come 
from a lack of protein so we need to 
show up to our date feeling balanced so 
I know some of my clients you know they 
were used to saving up all their 
calories so they could eat and drink on 
their date not good to show up starving 
I don't know if you're gonna be hangry I 
don't know if you're gonna have too much 
hyper energy if you're gonna have too 
low energy I need you to show up stable 
steady you know cool calm collected your 
natural self if you're normally hyper 
and energetic okay but I don't want you 
to be overly just because we don't have 
our blood sugar in check so eating 
protein before you go on the date it 
could be a handful of nuts could be a 
hard-boiled egg could be a protein shake 
it could be a full meal if you're going 
out for drinks and not dinner 
um but protein protein protein is it's 
what's going to help stabilize and level 
out your energy and give you enough 
energy without making you feel too full 
or bloated 
that's a great tip and do that right 
before the date and people do all sorts 
of kooky things sometimes before dates 
right and remember when you go out on a 
date it's not about the food okay take 
care of yourself before it's usually not 
a great idea to show up to a date 
starving right right any reason like 
stuff saying you're gonna not be the 
best version of yourself and it's okay I 
once had a a gentleman that we worked 
with who said I'm just self-conscious 
because I come to dates after work and 
I'm so hungry and I said eat a meal 
before you go out yeah you don't have to 
save it eat take care of yourself you 
want to show up with the best energy and 
if you're good having your meal earlier 
where you can control what you're eating 
then you can show up to the date and 
have an appetizer have a salad you can 
do all of those things be flexible and 
take care of your South yes yes well 
said Bella 
yay 
and how do we stuff tip number four 
putting if you have put yourself into a 
happy State how do you do that okay so 
if you've had a bad day or if like the 
last thing you want to do is go to the 
date at the end of the day you know like 
maybe you're looking forward to it and 
then you know it comes around time 
you're like oh my gosh I just want to go 
home and sit on the couch this sounds 
really silly but if you put your fingers 
in the corner of your mouth and push 
your mouth up into a smile it's gonna 
like that that shape of your face 
activates your brain to make you think 
that you're happy even when you're not 
so that's what I mean by put yourself in 
a happy state so if you're really 
struggling just turn up the corners of 
your mouth hold your fingers there count 
to 60. I swear to god it works I do this 
whenever I'm in a bad mood which people 
say you know how am I ever in a bad mood 
but I am in a bad mood sometimes so do 
that and that's gonna help get you into 
a better uh more positive State of Mind 
oh I couldn't agree more and slap that 
smile on your face if you have to hold 
the corners up because your but your 
brain is activated when you put your 
mouth in the shape of a smile you start 
to release dopamine you start to feel 
happier it's a trick and it's an amazing 
trick that we have our daters do and at 
the same time to put yourself into that 
happy state if you need more listen to 
something that makes you laugh listen to 
a playlist that gets your mojo up where 
you feel sexy and confident and happy 
and these are your jams so do these 
things to put yourself into that Happy 
State yes yes I love it it's like your 
own personal pump up session 100 because 
remember your moods are contagious yeah 
when you walk into a date in a happy 
State feeling sexy and confident in your 
body you are going to feel and be super 
attractive yes yes 
and your last tip for us my friend your 
last fun fitness and healthy hack before 
a date 
yes so posture so research shows that 
you look more con people think you're 
more confident when you have better 
posture so what I want you to do for 
this one and we can all do this together 
no matter where you are is bring your 
shoulders up towards your ears bring 
them back and then bring them down and 
that's going to help you lift up your 
chest but engage your upper back so that 
your shoulders stay back your chest 
stays lifted and you stand or sit taller 
so this is the attractive posture that 
we want not only for the person across 
from us Bella but also to signal to 
ourselves because I'm all about you know 
how we carry ourselves and how we feel 
about ourselves and then P.S here's how 
it looks to the person across the table 
from you so if you sit up tall you're 
gonna feel taller you're gonna feel more 
open think about if you're sad if you're 
upset you know you're hunched over 
you're slouched a little bit when you're 
happy when you're excited you're open 
you're you know you're standing tall so 
that's how I want you to feel before and 
during the date no matter what's going 
on across the table from you I love that 
shoulders up shoulders back shoulders 
down up back down up back down all right 
that is your posture workout people and 
that reminds me one um one of my 
favorite TED talks of all time and I 
obsessively watched TED Talks before I 
gave one this past October but is Amy 
Cuddy's talk about power posing and so 
and so to Steph's Point our posture 
makes a difference and Amy Cuddy if you 
haven't seen her Ted Talk she talks 
about how we pose builds our confidence 
at that moment so if ladies you put your 
Le you know kind of stand put your feet 
apart put your hands on your hips stuff 
you can do this too right and you feel 
like Wonder Woman or even better take up 
space put your arms out in a V if you 
look at any Olympic Athlete when we do 
something great we're like yes and our 
arms go up in the air it's because we 
are happy we are confident before if 
you're feeling nervous during a date do 
your up you get your posture back up 
back down yeah or go into the bathroom 
and go power pose spread your legs apart 
spread your arms apart and stand there 
for a minute and you will find your 
confidence levels automatically Rising 
because we are wired as the human 
species to do this if you see gorillas 
in the wild they make themselves big 
when they want to assert their dominance 
right so make yourself big so 
um you just reminded me of one of my 
favorite things Steph thank you so much 
for sharing all of these amazing tips 
with us about building our confidence 
building hopefully our fitness levels 
because we're all so hard on ourselves 
and you my listener are beautiful you 
are amazing you we're attractive just as 
you are and I hope that this episode 
today with all of these gems has made 
you feel like you are sexy and confident 
in your body and you are committed to 
your best health and you can share your 
regimes and all of the amazing things 
and power pose the heck out of yourself 
and get your posture in so Steph thank 
you so much for being here with us 
you're awesome thank you Bella as are 
you 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back to this week's 
podcast 
um I am super excited for you guys and 
for myself to learn a prolific amount 
from this prolific author my friend Sam 
Horn Sam is here with us Sam has written 
10 books most recently this amazing book 
called talking on eggshells and I know 
we talk about walking on eggshells when 
we're talking about narcissists but this 
is talking on eggshells and Sam's book 
is chock full of gems she's written like 
I said 10 total books including one 
called Tung Fu and she's going to tell 
us about this Sam you're amazing a 
goddess thank you for being here with us 
I'm so glad to be here I'm really 
looking forward to sharing some stories 
and insights with your listeners well 
that's fantastic so tell us about 
um tell us about what it means 
to talk on eggshells and what is Tong fu 
you know I was doing a workshop and a 
Gentleman raised his hand and he said 
you know I work for a very tough boss 
and it seems like I can never say 
anything right and I never know what's 
going to set him off and we're all just 
walking around eggshells and I said oh 
no you're talking on eggshells and I bet 
we all have at least one person in our 
life and it seems they're so sensitive 
or we say something and they take it the 
wrong way and talking on eggshells is so 
stressful so this book is about what to 
say in those challenging moments instead 
of thinking of the perfect response on 
the way home 
I love that and this is something you 
had to learn yourself you didn't grow up 
in an environment that said let's talk 
about how to have great relationships 
and communicate 
you know all we all have a habitual 
conflict resolution style and for many 
of us like I grew up in a cold war it's 
uh my dad was emotionally distant and my 
mom was emotionally wounded and they 
were very good people they just didn't 
talk to each other I remember road trips 
with hours and hours of silence and so 
we didn't say anything because we were 
so afraid of like you know is how 
they're going to react and then I was in 
a relationship with a controller and I 
thought when he planned every detail of 
my dates cool right nope not so much not 
so much red alert Red Alert should have 
read that sign and so I learned in two 
of the major relationships of my life to 
always worry and wonder about what I was 
saying whether it was right whether it 
was wrong and this book hopefully is an 
antidote to that so that people don't 
have to deal with that and all the 
stress that come comes with it 
well wonderful so tell you say that we 
need to get comfortable with conflict 
let's start there like conflict is 
inevitable in all relationships right 
whether you have a parent a child a 
partner a girlfriend a spouse a best 
friend conflict you put two humans 
together in a relationship there will be 
conflict and if there isn't somebody is 
giving in and not using their voice 
that's right they're either avoiding or 
accommodating giving in to go along and 
uh or getting angry and upset with 
drawing retreating none of that works so 
unless people are driving I hope they 
get a piece of paper and put a vertical 
line down the center and on the left 
we're going to talk about words and 
reactions to lose and over on the right 
words and responses to use so that we're 
going to talk about arguing and 
complaining and and what to do people 
are blaming us for something that's not 
our fault or accusing us of something 
that's not true and we'll talk about 
what not to do and what to do sound good 
sounds amazing so tell us a situation 
that we should that we could all use 
some tips myself included I have a 
husband I have two teenagers I have a 
mother I have a father I have a brother 
a sister-in-law and lots of friends give 
us your gems Sam Horn 
okay so let's put conflict on the left 
and let's put clarifying conversation on 
the right now you already feel the 
different right because if we're 
conflict diverse we head the other 
direction so how this works is I'll tell 
a short 60-second story then we'll 
unpack it so we can apply it in our life 
whether it's with a a new boyfriend 
whether it's a husband whether it's 
someone at work whether it's an adult 
child sound good sound perfect okay so 
there was a young woman and she was 
working at Salvation Army and she had 
learning disabilities and so holding a 
job was very difficult for her and yet 
she had really applied herself and her 
supervisor told her she was up for 
promotion she was thrilled the very next 
day her supervisor told her she was in 
danger of getting fired now over on the 
left that's a conflict that we feel that 
it's wrong unfair undeserved and what 
many people do and what Bethany would 
have done before she would have maybe 
quit she would have gone home dissolved 
into tears rehashed what happened you 
know maybe fallen into depression guess 
what her therapist had given her four 
words that help us turn a conflict into 
a clarifying conversation 
she went back to her boss the next day 
and she said 
help me understand please help me 
understand how I could be up for 
promotion yesterday and in danger of 
losing my job today and her boss said 
well a customer had complained how rude 
she was and Bethany remembered the 
situation the customer tried to bring 
back a used mattress with the cover off 
store policy can't do that she'd 
politely tried to explain it he left in 
a huff and reported her for being rude 
ah now that the boss knew the real 
reason what had happened 
she apologized to Bethany gave her the 
promotion and thanked her for enforcing 
the policy 
and next time we're in a conflict 
instead of withdrawing retreating 
getting upset whatever those words 
could you please help me understand 
would you please help me understand 
that's so it's seismic I feel myself 
shifting because when something hits me 
I get goosebumps in my arms and I have 
goosebumps in my arms right now could 
you please help me understand 
dear teenager why you broke curfew last 
night and you said you wouldn't 
look now we have a clarifying 
conversation right it's not side against 
side we're on the same side we're 
seeking to understand so now here's 
another situation that follows up on 
that sound good 
awesome 
all right over on the left please put 
wrong something has gone wrong and as 
Elvis said when things go wrong don't go 
with them 
so 
when something goes wrong often we get 
upset and like we attack or accuse how 
could you do that that's so unfair I 
can't believe you said that and we 
attack which escalates it right 
100 percent 
we are going to become a pattern 
interrupt Bella we're going to do you 
play sports by any chance not well but I 
do okay then you know how does a referee 
if people are getting into it how does a 
referee stop it or intervene blows their 
whistle says time out that's right they 
actually this is a physical pattern 
interrupt next time people are getting 
into it actually make a t and say time 
out and then say these words this won't 
help yelling at each other won't help or 
say let's not do this say let's not do 
this blaming each other won't undo what 
happened instead let's and you see how 
you know people are getting into it 
pattern interrupt or stop like or enough 
or yo now switch the attention to what 
we do want to have happen instead of 
what didn't happen that we're upset 
about 
that's so great I know in our house we 
do something called escalation and 
de-escalation so when words start to get 
hot and heavy and because we can all 
push each other's buttons you know 
you're married you've got you raised two 
boys and it takes about seven and a half 
milliseconds for someone to really push 
that button right and here we you know 
in fact last night I was having a 
conversation with my 19 year old about 
breaking curfew and we were very 
peaceful and Andy my husband came in and 
he's the loveliest human and he can be 
incredibly lovely or he can get really 
angry right just and he started getting 
a little bit you know we could tell 
tensions were getting high and my 
daughter looked at me and she pointed at 
him and she says why why is he 
escalating 
she was calm she said it to me and I 
looked at him I said you're escalating 
maybe you need a break 
and he smiled because she called the 
escalation we've been doing this I said 
to them my visual is when someone says 
stop or de-escalate we're like boxers 
going back to our corners 
let cooler heads prevail and then we can 
come back and speak rationally take a 
pause and that brought his temperature 
down Sam in half because his own 
daughter said and the one who was in 
trouble said why is he escalating we're 
talking we're wrapped up in blankets 
having an adult conversation about why 
she did this and so yes you're right 
pattern interrupt is great I didn't 
realize that's what that was but that's 
a great way to think about it it's like 
stop going down the old bad Pathways 
that we go down really fast 
that's and so let's over on the left 
what you did over on the left is play 
the game right people are manipulating 
us controlling us guilt trippiness or 
something like that and we play the game 
defend whatever over on the right we 
named the game it's like hey don't put 
me in the middle on this one right it's 
like a bartender said the hardest part 
of my job is all my friends who come in 
and want a free drink and I said name 
the game say hey you're not asking for a 
free drink are you not anymore they're 
not 
that's right you're not doing it you 
wouldn't ask for a free drink you 
wouldn't you wouldn't complain about 
your meal when there's no bites left on 
the plate because you were looking for a 
free meal now would you with a smile on 
your face like southern women they smile 
while they say everything bless your 
heart you wouldn't be doing that would 
you 
you know Melissa Rivers has a great 
quote about her mom Joan Rivers she said 
my mother was a travel agent for guilt 
trips 
so if we know someone who is a travel 
agent for guilt trips name the game oh 
guilt that doesn't work anymore what 
else you got right well you know it's 
like are you know are you taking your 
bad day out on me you know it's like are 
you trying to make me feel bad you know 
whatever not anymore they're not when 
you name the game you neutralize the 
game 
absolutely you know in the same 
conversation with my daughter and one of 
her big strategies what some people call 
it projection I call it deflecting well 
if I stay out late it's because my 
friend Ally stays out and you know how 
late Megan stays out I said 
you're deflecting let's come back to you 
is it game the game 
over on the left let's put flying Vault 
over on the right put find Solutions 
right 
John F Kennedy said our task is not to 
fix the blame for the past it's to fix 
the course for the future so having 
raised a couple teenagers it's like when 
they would start in all the excuses 
right because they think oh if I 
understand their excuse or their reason 
you know well Chuck Yeager said at the 
moment of truth there are either reasons 
or results 
so we shift over here from reasons to 
results we shift from excuses to action 
and when they're going on and on and on 
about why they didn't do what they were 
supposed to do we wait and then do you 
know what we say 
what's that what was our agreement 
um 
what was our agreement do you see how 
you have just shifted the conversation 
back to the results and the action or 
the agreement instead of all the reasons 
right and the blaming and the deflecting 
yes I I love that well let's talk about 
interpersonal situational 
interpersonal situational awareness tell 
us what that is and you have so many 
great anecdotes in talking on eggshells 
about this so I hand you the mic 
well first let me tell a story about me 
about when I did not have interpersonal 
situational awareness right out of 
college I got a job with Rod labor 
tennis Championship Rod Laver on Hilton 
Head Island South Carolina well they put 
me in charge of representing our tennis 
Resort at the island uh board meeting so 
I was young Bella I was eager forgive me 
I can only imagine a young Sam Horn like 
full of Sizzle Dazzle Sparkle and energy 
well I had lots of ideas and I was 
pretty free sharing them and after about 
three meetings thank heaven for Dale 
shooty who is the general manager of the 
Palmetto Dunes Hyatt and he pulled me 
aside and he said Sam 
you might want to sit on your hands for 
a few meetings now I'd never heard that 
expression before essentially he said 
Sam everyone in that room is senior to 
you and you're doing more talking than 
them he said it's time to listen and 
only offer something if you add value 
ask yourself is it timely is it welcome 
is it additive 
so let's think about relationships Bella 
so often especially if we've been around 
someone for a while we're familiar we 
just blurt right and when we blurt 
people get hurt we just say what's on 
our mind we just talk about what 
happened that day we talk about traffic 
we never ask ourselves 
is it welcome do they want to hear it is 
it additive you know is it good timing 
we're not reading the river and another 
quick anecdote for so that people can 
really get this idea of Isa 
interpersonal situational awareness in 
their mind when I was in high school my 
first boyfriend was a Boatman and we 
would head to the stanislaw river every 
weekend and what did I learn from 
boatmen they're always reading the river 
right there oh I hear a big Roar ahead 
that means there's a rapid now there's 
not normally a rapid there so I'm gonna 
pull over get out walk around and Scout 
that rapid instead of just blunder into 
it wait a minute here where's the 
current where's the v ah I'm gonna align 
with the current because it's easier to 
row when you go with the flow except if 
the current carries me into a canyon 
wall do you see how if we can read the 
room we can lead the room 
so what I'm asking all of us to do is in 
a relationships is like is someone's are 
they clenching their teeth is their jaw 
tight you know can we see that we're 
talking talking talking and they're a 
thousand miles away can we see that uh 
we're in a meeting and we're doing more 
talking than anyone else how can we read 
the room adapt accordingly so that we're 
being additive instead of an annoyance 
oh I love that so it's have a look 
around at the people that you're with 
and see if they look happy if they look 
excited do they look anxious do they 
look worried so maybe if you have you 
know bad news to share with somebody and 
they already look sad maybe now is not 
the right time to put that on their 
shoulders 
see you know Richard Branson said time 
is the new money and I think that time 
is the new trust and when we're with a 
person most of the time they're 
preoccupied with what's going on in 
their life their priorities their needs 
and if we just start talking a lot of 
time it's not appropriate or welcome or 
additive so as you said what if though 
we want to talk about something we did 
what you did earlier we asked hey I've 
had one of those kind of days can I have 
five minutes just to vent and then I 
promise I'll put a sock in it it's like 
hey I it looks like something's going on 
with you what's that well you know I 
just found out 
see once we find out their agenda it may 
take priority over our agenda we put it 
aside what we're doing though is that 
we're looking around and we're doing 
what Desmond Tutu said he said we've got 
to stop pulling people out of the river 
we've got to go upstream and find out 
where they're falling in and this is a 
way of thinking upstream and if we do 
this in relationships we are taking care 
of them in a way that we're being 
considerate and conscious of others 
instead of just doing what we want when 
we want no that's so true you know my 
friend Trish is awesome and she's witty 
and funny and smart and there are times 
where I'll ask her a question you know 
like should I do this and she will ask 
me the most brilliant question she says 
Bella what kind of friend do you want me 
to be right now 
how powerful is that and I've been using 
that everywhere I go I have been asking 
my clients when they're when things 
aren't going well if they're in a dating 
dry spell if they're complaining about 
something or I just don't know I'm like 
can tell me right now how can I be the 
best coach to you 
they they have the answers and to your 
point about interpersonal situational 
awareness sometimes you might be able to 
read it but if you don't know ask the 
question what kind of a friend do you 
want me to be right now what kind of a 
mom do you want me to be right now what 
kind of a coach do you want me to be 
right now and that will show that person 
that you have the e word empathy for 
them 
well let's talk about empathy shall we 
let's go there over on the left let's 
put in patience and over on the right 
put empathy 
and fact over on the left put contempt 
and on the right put compassion 
and there are four words that can shift 
us from empathy from impatience to 
empathy and you know what they are no 
tell me how would I feel 
oh arm Goosebumps again my arm 
Goosebumps I wish you guys could see me 
how would I feel dang wow just wow and 
and here's a 60-second story that shows 
the shift that this makes from being 
frustrated from being uh impatient you 
know is that a gentleman said this 
changed his relationship with his mother 
he said my mom is in a rest home and I 
drive out every Saturday to see her and 
I have to force myself to do it because 
all she ever does is complain 
and he said when you put those four 
words up there I asked myself how would 
I feel if I were in bed 18 hours a day 
seven days a week 
how would I feel if I had to live right 
next to someone and she played the TV so 
loud I couldn't even hear myself think 
how would I feel if days went by and no 
one came to see me said Sammy got me 
right out of my frustration he and then 
he said you had said instead of 
complaining about what you don't like 
create what you would like 
and I had said if you don't like your 
mother complaining if you're feeling 
frustrated with her or impatient what 
would you like 
and he thought about he said well I'd 
like to talk about all our Good Times 
our memories I said take out a photo 
album 
because Queen Elizabeth said good 
memories are our second chance at 
happiness and he got back in touch and 
he said Sam I took that photo album one 
picture of this crazy uncle we had had 
us laughing so hard tears are streaming 
down our face one picture of this 
mountain cabin we went to every summer 
brought back a whole hour of memories so 
once again if we're frustrated with 
someone we've probably only seeing it 
from our point of view how would I feel 
if there if I were in their shoes may 
not like it and may not agree with it we 
may understand it which gives us the 
incentive to be more compassionate 
instead of contemptuous 
I love that I love that so much and you 
told a great story if you don't mind 
sharing it on talking in eggshells about 
a woman who went into the ER 
this is are you ready because these 
techniques work at all ages and stages 
this is my 84 year old Aunt Kate and she 
volunteers at a hospital five days a 
week even during covid and I asked what 
it was like and she said one word 
stressful I said well think of in a 
situation that was really stressful she 
didn't even have to think about it she 
said last week a woman came running into 
the ER to the help desk she said I just 
got a text from my daughter she was in a 
car accident she's in the ER I got to 
see her well NK called and you may 
remember the rules during covid one 
visitor per patient or no visitors there 
was somebody already with the daughter 
and she had to tell the mom she couldn't 
get in to see her well understandably 
the woman lost it and she's screaming 
and crying and now 
those four words again instead of 
thinking why are you yelling at me it's 
not my fault I didn't make the rules see 
all of those reactions make it worse 
right instead how would I feel if my 
daughter were in the ER and I couldn't 
get in to see her and Bella it gave her 
the incentive to turn there's nothing I 
can do to let me see if there's 
something I can do she called the ER 
back she said who is with the daughter 
it was the Uber driver who had brought 
the young woman in Kay was able to 
explain the situation thank him he left 
and the mom was able to get him with the 
daughter once again because instead of 
it's not my fault don't blame me how 
could you say that how would I feel ah 
let me see if there's something I can do 
instead of nothing I can do 
amazing amazing and ladies and gentlemen 
you can think about this even while 
you're on your dates 
can you imagine if we could okay how 
would I feel if if you're sitting across 
from somebody and I'm just Conjuring up 
images right now you walk into a date 
and there's someone who looks super 
anxious right or what how how do we 
shift this situation or somebody that 
just won't stop talking 
very common sorry guys lots and lots of 
women will go on these dates and say wow 
I just had a two-hour therapy session 
where I was the therapist for someone 
stop talking even when I tried to 
redirect the conversation Bella as you 
said I 
um he just we had a guest on some months 
ago his name is Larry Kaufman and he 
said some people just show up and throw 
up 
that's memorable and unfortunately often 
true so what would you like to know what 
to do if someone is going on and on and 
on I would love that 
by the way the comedian Paula Poundstone 
has a great line about this she says you 
know what we need a 12-step group for 
Non-Stop talkers we're going to call it 
on and on and on 
[Laughter] 
that's great so over on the left what if 
someone's going on and on and on now 
Bella we've been told to never interrupt 
that it's rude to interrupt right yes I 
think it can be right to interrupt not 
rude now picture the old fashioned 
scales of Justice remember the lady of 
Justice with the two plates like this 
I think the success of any relationship 
whether it's the first date whether it's 
the first year whether it's whatever is 
whether the scale of needs is kept in 
balance 
see if we're out on a date and the other 
person is talking talking talking 
talking talking talking 
their needs are getting met what about 
your needs you know it's like chances 
are you won't go on another date again 
chances are you're simmering in silence 
chances are you're resenting them it is 
not rude of you to interrupt when the 
scale of needs is out of balance it's 
right now here's what you do use their 
name because if we just start talking 
over them what will they do 
they'll talk louder right or they'll go 
gosh that's so rude I was in the middle 
of a story that's exactly what you 
interrupt me that's right so we say 
Scott or Sally because when people hear 
their name it causes a pause that's a 
chance to get our verbal foot in the 
door now we do either two things if it's 
a relationship we paraphrase what it is 
we said wow it sounds like things are 
really difficult with your brother these 
days or wow it really sounds like that 
that person uh took took their anger out 
on you and that wasn't fair because if 
we don't paraphrase what they said we 
are yanking the conversational ball 
right out from underneath and right so 
paraphrase what it is they said so they 
know we've been listening then you say 
you know what if there's action to be 
taken we say as soon as we finish this 
conversation I'm going to make a note 
and get in touch with that person or as 
soon as this call is over I'm going to 
talk with if there's action say it 
if there's not you say you know what I 
had something like that happen to me too 
is it okay if I share it and ask 
permission to give your or if they're 
convection and going on and on and on 
and on we say you know Aunt Vera I can 
understand that um your everything aches 
and you are sad about not being able to 
get around the way you used to and 
let's talk about what's right in our 
life because I think the more we dwell 
on that the more it brings both of us 
down and that doesn't serve any good 
purpose we've got about a half an hour 
more in this visit and you know I and 
and your granddaughter just had a 
birthday or can I tell you about my trip 
that I've got coming out so that we show 
some empathy and then we shift and and 
we can be a pattern interrupt to people 
who go on and on and on and many times 
they'll be grateful because now we have 
a balanced conversation instead of a 
monologue I love how you did that so 
adroitly it you paraphrase what Aunt 
Vera was doing you gave her empathy but 
then you built a very quick strategic 
Bridge what I would love to do we can 
sit and stew in all that's negative 
which is only going to make us feel 
worse something that I like to do is 
think about what's going right what am I 
looking forward to because it puts me in 
a better friend of mine are you with me 
yes let's do that I love your technique 
of asking for permission 
are you with me is that good let's talk 
about what's going right that's great 
and that's how you can get negative 
people back into the positive first I 
love that you use your empathy in the 
case of that gentleman how would my mom 
feel 
18 hours a day locked in a room with you 
know someone who watches TV that's too 
loud wow that would be really really 
vexing right and then paraphrasing what 
they're saying and then changing it and 
that abruptly but in a very kind way 
that shows them what's in it for them 
see what you're discussing is what's 
called proactive Grace in the book and 
let's put let's over on the left puts 
complain what can we do if someone 
complains right say that uh we're 
supposed to pick up our date uh downtown 
and we leave in plenty of time there's 
an accident on the freeway it's gridlock 
our phone is dead we can't let him know 
we get there an hour late we pull up she 
Yanks the car to open she says you are 
supposed to be here now or go well over 
on the left put explain because we often 
think if we explain why we didn't do 
what we were supposed to do people will 
forgive us uh-uh explanations come 
across as excuses because they feel 
we're not being accountable over on the 
right Take the A Train write down three 
A's a for agree a for apologize a for 
ACT here are two relationship saving 
words next time someone complains ask 
ourselves is what they're saying 
basically true most of the time it is 
that's why they're complaining say 
you're right 
I was supposed to pick you up an hour 
ago a for apologize and I'm sorry you 
ended up waiting so long a for act and 
from now on if I'm gonna try and pick 
you up on a Friday night I'm building in 
a cushion for Murphy's Law 
now that we're accountable and that we 
commiserate with their inconvenience 
they're more likely to say well you 
couldn't do anything about it instead of 
you know well how was I supposed to know 
well my phone was dead it wasn't you 
know back and forth that's what happens 
when we try and explain what went wrong 
nope Take the A Train it expedites 
complaints explanations aggravate them 
and the A train I wrote this down and 
then put it in the show notes agree say 
you're right 
apologize I am so sorry I'm an hour late 
act next time on a Friday I'm going to 
make sure I leave and two hours before 
I'm supposed to catch next time I'm 
going to give you money for an Uber 
you know and Bella especially sometimes 
people say why should I apologize I 
didn't do anything wrong or it wasn't my 
fault and I bet you've heard the old 
adage 
you can be right or you can be happy 
right 
100 
and when we're apologizing we're not 
saying it's our fault we're once again 
putting ourself in their shoes imagining 
what it was like for her for an hour to 
not know who you're in some ditch 
somewhere or if we had ditched her all 
we're doing is commiserating with their 
inconvenience and when we do that they 
will feel seen and heard and understood 
and now they're ready to move on 
and it's so elegant and authentic and 
lovely and I love how you're so pithy in 
the things that you say right you get 
right to it I think you call it in the 
book in phobicity 
I'm talking too much about something and 
even in the desire to apologize or be 
right we can add a whole bunch of stuff 
that might just inadvertently piss 
someone off here agree you are right I 
am so sorry don't make the excuses even 
if traffic sucked which it always does I 
live in Chicago there's four seasons of 
traffic here right yeah and that's it 
don't make excuses later after you've 
done that and you've gotten them to put 
their Dukes down put their weapons down 
right when you all they need to hear is 
your right and I'm sorry then you can 
say traffic was such a beast I had no 
anticipation that it would be so bad 
you see you're you and I are talking 
about the Power of Words and would you 
like a story where one word completely 
transformed what was happening 
please I would love as many stories as 
you have up here 
okay so I had flown to New York to visit 
my son Andrew horn and his son hero was 
a year old so we're getting caught up in 
the living room Hiro cross across the 
floor pulls himself up on a guitar 
that's on a stand in the corner and 
starts pounding on the strings now 
that's over on the left things are going 
wrong right and the reaction is no stop 
to yank the guitar away leave the guitar 
alone all of which would have would have 
escalated made the situation worse 
instead Andrew said one word know what 
the word was 
gentle 
and I saw Hero's face transform in front 
of me and he reached back out to the 
guitar and he went strong strong 
[Music] 
he reached up to some bells on the 
window I went ring ring ring 
and it was because in that moment Andrew 
chose one word that shaped his behavior 
instead of shamed his behavior 
um 
my dad used to say you can't motivate 
someone to do better by making him feel 
bad 
and over on the left when we criticize 
somebody for what they did wrong tell 
them to not do it to stop doing it we 
actually 
reinforce the dreaded Behavior 
If instead know what do we want them to 
do what's a word that paints an image of 
what we want him to start doing we 
actually reinforce the desired Behavior 
we're a coach instead of a Critic they 
learn from mistakes instead of lose face 
over mistakes and they know how to do it 
better instead of just feeling bad 
I love that well can I ask you a 
personal question around this sure sure 
so with the 15 year old and a 19 year 
old we have we have pretty good rules of 
engagements about conflict in our house 
yes and so however their kids and they 
want to be right even if they know 
that's not always the right thing we 
have a code word in our house created by 
me when they when their words I say your 
words are knives 
and even though somebody can forgive you 
knives will leave scars on our skin 
and so my code word when they start 
being aggressive with their words and it 
gets hurtful I put my hand up I said 
you're going hard is that what you want 
you're going hard and that's so I guess 
in samhorn speak that's a pattern 
interrupt yes so I don't know is it okay 
to say it that way you're going hard or 
is it better for me to say something 
about shaping their behavior like be 
gentle with your words 
what a great first year a Kung Fu black 
belt Bella I think they're very 
fortunate to have your centered wisdom 
and example you know Albert Schweitzer 
said in influencing others example is 
not the main thing 
it's the only thing and the example 
you're setting about respect so okay so 
over on the left number one is Accused 
but however you ask right you said 
you're going hard is that what you want 
so see you're asking which is a dialogue 
instead of you're going hard and and see 
that's an accusation if you just leave 
it there 
sometimes I might just say you're going 
hard honestly in the heat at the moment 
just to because it's like it's bringing 
awareness without going hard on them 
this is hurting me you're going hard and 
maybe because I've said it so often they 
do usually shift at that point but I do 
think you're right asking is that your 
intention is that what you want 
and there there's more than one right 
answer right so that's a right answer I 
think another right answer especially 
because words matter they set up Ripple 
effects is like just to look at them and 
say respect 
right respect respect because see that's 
what you want to imprint right is that 
you know it's and and the words you need 
to calm down who boy do those backfire 
because it's in order right you need to 
you need to calm down you need to no no 
no no just eyebrows up respect is it 
there's and and there's another one as 
well is that 
hahaha 
In the Heat of the Moment 
um I know someone who went through a 
very difficult divorce recently and it 
really got crunchy and it's very easy in 
those circumstances to get vengeful and 
vindictive right and they're wrong and 
then all that and I I kept sharing a 
quote from my friend maybe you know her 
Mary Morrissey and she says hold the 
vision 
not the circumstances 
hold the vision not the circumstances 
now Bella what you and I are talking 
about may sound like platitudes or 
cliches or Pollyanna all I know is that 
these two people who were six months ago 
hmm like this are now co-parenting their 
child they're now both happier and 
healthier and it was because when they 
were tempted to go there hold the vision 
not the circumstances 
and the vision for them let's unpack 
that a little bit for people hold the 
vision not the circumstances the vision 
is I want this to be peaceful and I want 
us to maintain as good of a relationship 
as we can as co-parents that's correct 
okay 
I want us on the other side of this to 
be the friends that we were when we met 
each other you know I want on the other 
side of this to set an example for hero 
that you instead of staying in a toxic 
relationship you'd try your best to heal 
it and if it isn't better then you get 
out of a toxic situation I want a model 
for hero the vision is that people treat 
each other with respect 
and so do you see when we have the 
clarity of what we do want and when 
we're getting pulled in other directions 
and it's so doggone tempting if we have 
that Clarity of how we want to show up 
it really becomes a North star 
I love that 
and speaking of these hard conversations 
and things that get crunchy you have 
something called the four-step plan 
p-l-a-n I love how you have these great 
mnemonic devices to help people remember 
these things in the Heat of the Moment 
let's can you tell us about this maybe 
what it is give us an example in a way 
that we can all maybe use like in five 
minutes once we're done listening to 
this podcast 
you bet well can I give you a quick 
example of that 
you know my answer that will be a 
resounding yes okay here's a way that we 
can plan for a tough conversation maybe 
we're going into a negotiation or an 
interview or presentation or a 
performance evaluation or a mediation or 
something like that I suggest 
um if we fail to play we've all heard if 
we fail to plan we plan to fail right so 
I suggest something called a wfi form 
and it's www it's what okay so what's 
the situation 
you know is this a negotiation is this a 
mediation is this or whatever and here 
Bella in that first W what is the action 
I want people to take what is the change 
I want them to make 
so at the end of this mediation or 
negotiation or whatever what's the ACT 
okay you got it next is the W is the who 
all right who are the decision makers 
here or who um who is in this mediation 
with me 
and we ask ourselves what is their mood 
are they locked in and they're going to 
say no over money or no over possessions 
or no over the dog or whatever I believe 
that objections are answers to the test 
and if we know who we're dealing with 
and their needs and interests and 
priorities we can often unblock a 
blockade and I'll give an example of 
this in a moment sound good sure the 
next W is where and when where and when 
is this taking place because I was uh 
speaking for the Cisco channel the 435 
top Executives at Cisco and one of the 
department heads got in touch and he was 
having an all hands meeting on Friday 
and wanted to prepare I asked him what 
time is it and he said four o'clock on a 
Friday afternoon I said Ted no one's 
going to be paying attention they're 
going to have one foot out the door so 
you get ahead of that don't don't have 
your phone wear a watch and the first 
words out of your mouth are you 
anticipate and voice their objections 
you say I can only imagine not I know 
you're thinking that's presumptuous 
right no I can own only imagine you're 
thinking it's four o'clock on a Friday 
afternoon these things normally go for a 
couple hours I'm making a promise to you 
right now we're going to bring this in 
under an hour I promise you will be out 
of here by five o'clock rock and roll 
let's go guess who won buy-in in the 
first 60 seconds because he'd read the 
room and then he led the room right by 
understanding who was in the room and 
how they were feeling and how he could 
prevent a catastrophe so that's the the 
the The Who and the where and when is 
this taking place it matters 
next is why will it be an Roi for them 
what are three reasons they would say 
yes to this that they would agree to 
this as you've mentioned this gets us 
out of well I'm not budging on this as 
well you know I paid for that she 
doesn't deserve any part of that that 
kind of locked in position no is forces 
us to put ourselves in their mind and 
think why would they say yes what would 
they agree to why will this be a win for 
them why will this give them what they 
want so we can bake it into what we say 
and now the last w 
why will it be an Roi for us 
and Bella we never walk into a 
high-stakes situations with only one 
outcome in mind because if that doesn't 
happen oh failure right and then we just 
keep repeating ourselves because we only 
got one game plan so what are three 
options all of which I'm I'm comfortable 
with because then in the discussion if 
we can see that they're not moving on 
this we can pivot to something else it's 
still a win for us that gives them 
something different they want because 
obviously they're not listening to this 
one over here and if we plan ahead and 
you if you may be thinking wow that 
takes a lot of time well maybe five 
minutes and five minutes to increase the 
likelihood that we walk out of that 
situation with what we want and they get 
what they want so we're on the same side 
instead of side against side that's 
worth it 
right your five W's are then seven W's 
with the win-win 
whoa she's quick she's quick and that's 
what you get and I think that it's so 
important and I shared with Sam before 
we were recording this podcast that in 
reading her book over the last several 
days it really helped me to think about 
things more effectively even when I was 
having some difficulties with my 19 year 
old and I thought to myself if she's 
breaking her curfew okay and Sam says 
what do they want what is their uh what 
is the person you're talking to what are 
their priorities what are their 
interests and what are their needs and 
that was such a shift for me to go okay 
she's doing this what's important to her 
having fun being with her friends 
connecting in an environment that no 19 
and a half and 20 year olds want to be 
it right when they have not had any 
supervision for nine months and have 
been living in and out coming and going 
as they please it's like okay now I'm 
understanding from her perspective why 
it shouldn't be a big deal to me mom 
I've been on my own for nine months I 
got straight A's why are you guys doing 
this 
and so to be able to make that shift 
help me to have a very much better 
targeted conversation with her that was 
a win-win we don't want to control you I 
understand it is important to you to 
connect with your friends in an 
environment that they want to be in to 
have fun because you're at home for 
these three months what we need to do is 
make sure that you're safe 
we don't want to control you we don't 
want to micromanage you I just don't 
want we live in a big city we don't live 
in the suburbs right where it's quiet 
and safe we live right downtown and 
along there's so much great activity but 
there's an underbelly to that as well 
I'm like how do we make sure that we're 
all happy we maintain the culture of the 
house because we love having you here 
you know Bella thank you thank you for 
your help 
well it's I I'm so glad people are 
having an opportunity to listen to what 
could be a hard conversation and the way 
you're navigating through it by 
communicating fully so that she gets the 
the underlying wants you know Esther 
perel said behind every criticism is a 
veiled wish 
oh is that powerful so see what you're 
doing here is you're going to the veiled 
wish and 
um you know there's a word that hasn't 
been mentioned yet that I think is also 
a key word in this relationship and 
discussion know what the word is no okay 
60 Second Story will come to the word 
there was a woman who told me Sam I've 
got two 16 year old twin daughters 
they're they're getting their driver's 
license at the same time they're dating 
at the same time she says I'm a nervous 
wreck she said when they're out on dates 
I'm just like you know thinking oh my 
gosh 
and she said my girls came home one 
night and I had was really upset because 
they had broken curfew and I lit into 
them 
and my daughter said something that that 
was probably the most important message 
of my parenting my daughter said Mom 
you think by worrying about us you're 
showing us how much you love us 
you're showing us you don't trust us 
and so we talked about the word worry I 
just can't stop worrying what if 
something and of course the more we 
worry the more we worry right so it's 
like no worries those words on the left 
don't be late don't interrupt me don't 
get mad you know don't run around the 
pool don't worry don't go over to the 
right what do you want ah 
it's about trust and you use the word 
safe we want you to be safe use the 
words we're so glad that you're here you 
know is that we we trust you to use your 
good judgment 
the look at the word seeds that you're 
planting in that relationship 
with your help in this book it was the 
best conversation we've had around this 
so thank you and I hope for those of you 
that are listening mine might have been 
my daughter Jaden this weekend but for 
you there's someone in your life that is 
frictional maybe you know as my mom 
calls it the pebble in your shoe person 
the person that just gets under your 
skin a little bit but if you can take 
yourself out of yourself like Sam is 
saying have empathy say how do they feel 
and closely related to how do they feel 
what do they want 
right and that's the next Bridge every 
conflict in every conversation you have 
can be made I believe so much easier so 
much less conflictual if that's a word 
less abrasive and you can really 
be graceful with that relationship and 
take it to the next level and have that 
person say wow you handled that really 
nicely thank you for that that could 
have gone really badly 
you know pemistroden says do not let 
people pull you into their storm 
pull them into your peace and the words 
and responses are the right are to pull 
ourselves and other people into peace 
into cooperation you know into 
compassion into kindness and empathy and 
it matters it's 
um you know circling back to something 
that you were saying at the beginning of 
our talk today as I was at Dulles 
Airport a couple days ago and with the 
with the wildflowers and um Canada you 
know it's really disruptive travel the 
the man in front of me was yelling at 
the customer service agent the gate 
agent saying you know this is ruining 
our vacation why didn't you tell us 
before so we could have made other plans 
I'm never going to fly blank blank again 
and and when he left she is my turn and 
she looked at me and she was like you 
know stealing herself for another 
Onslaught right 
and I said these words 
nine words ready 
yeah has it been one of those kind of 
days 
and Bella she just melted you know it's 
like oh we're doing the best we can you 
know it's like and it puts us those 
words all these words and responses 
we're talking about on the right trust 
and safe and you're right and how would 
I feel they not only pull us and others 
into our peace they really do create the 
quality of relationships we all want 
sometimes we just don't know how because 
no one ever taught us 
now you're right and one a phrase that 
you said in the book just stuck with me 
I was talking to my sister-in-law about 
it and you say people you know we always 
say Fight Fire with Fire and you say 
actually Fight Fire with water 
and it's like mic drop Sam Horn bite 
fire with water you know to your point 
my husband years ago was traveling with 
the partner on his job and the partner 
was very known for having a temper and 
everybody walked on eggshells around the 
sky and so their flight was delayed and 
they were you know somewhere on the East 
Coast trying to get home it was stormy 
and so the partner of course went in 
front of my husband was like I need to 
get on this plane I can't believe you 
know started berating the gate agent she 
said Mr so and so you're on the list 
we'll let you know if we can do anything 
for you and then my husband who knew 
better and said okay I'm gonna fight 
fire with water and he said to her wow 
you did a great job that was hard 
and she said to him Mr anacone there 
happens to be a seat on this plane one 
left may I offer you an aisle seat the 
partner 
was did not make the flight my husband 
got home 
words have Ripple effects don't they in 
fact Mother Teresa said the world is 
full of good people if you can't find 
one be one and that's the river that 
runs through our conversation isn't it 
is that it matters you know how we show 
up it influences our date it influences 
our partner it influences our family it 
influences gate agents it really I think 
the world is so 
needy in need of individuals who choose 
to go first and set an example of 
kindness and compassion and I think when 
they experience it they're a lot more 
likely to respond in kind 
I love that Sam you are brilliant thank 
you for being with us and 
can we order This brilliant book tell us 
where we can get it we'll put links in 
the show notes Amazon your site 
well both in fact they can go to Amazon 
if they want the book right now because 
you know it'll show up in within 24 
hours and if they want some of these 
quotes that we've been sharing if they 
want to uh see like a tedx talk that I 
gave on this uh they're welcome to go to 
samhorn.com and in fact we have an offer 
Bella it's free for anyone who would 
like it shall we share that 
share with me I want it too 
okay you know we've been talking about 
words to lose and words to use and if 
you just go to Sam at samhorn.com and 
ask for the words towards to lose we'll 
send you a reminder card you can 
actually put it on your refrigerator it 
helps everyone catch and correct it's 
like well I know it's important to you 
but it's like well you should have 
failed the dog you know but it's like 
well you have to put gas in the car oops 
it's gonna help us 
talk with these words on the right which 
are going to help instead of hurt so 
it's Sam at samhorn.com and you can even 
put it by your laptop before you fire 
off an email or something like that you 
can review this in advance to make sure 
that you're using words that are going 
to create receptivity instead of 
resentment I love this so much and grab 
Sam's book I think it'll shift you in 
one read of it it's shifted a very 
important conversation I had and I'm 
grateful and if you need to put these if 
you guys need to figure out why you're 
not converting maybe the first date to 
the second date or the second day to the 
third date you might need some help 
sign up on our website 
smartdatingacademy.com we can help you 
across the board to put more love into 
the world and to get more love back to 
convert those dates and to find the lid 
to your pot so and if you haven't filled 
out our podcast listener survey yet 
please do that it's also in the show 
notes we want to keep bringing back 
amazing guests like Sam and most 
importantly the people that you want us 
to bring on to help you to bring more 
love into your life and more life into 
your love so until next week smartdators 
I bid you farewell 


my friend Nita wrote an amazing book 
called wait for it that sucked now what 
which is like the perfect title to 
Nita's life tell us about the suck that 
has happened to you for the last 20 
years of your life and where you are now 
so I thought I had this like 
picture-perfect marriage and this 
picture-perfect dream you know home life 
that I had built and December 31st 2011 
was brought down to my knees and I was 
looking in the mirror I finally saw 
myself that I was living this lie why 
that day neither that was the last time 
I would let him hit me in the face and 
now you get to choose but in order to 
choose we've got to take the risks and 
we've got to say yes to get out of the 
suck 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart taters welcome back happy December 
I am as always so excited to be here 
with you and so excited to have this 
incredibly beautiful human on my podcast 
Dr Nita bhushan who is not only an 
amazing human but has been a friend of 
mine for the past decade I think Nita 
and I had 10 different connections and 
one day we had our very first date at 
wait for it a Whole Foods and I was 
riveted by this beautiful young girl who 
has come such an amazingly long way 
since I met her when I met Nita she was 
single she was a thriving business owner 
Dental practices and knew that life was 
calling her in a different direction she 
wanted to pursue something bigger than 
her she wanted to be more well she's 
been through unspeakable tragedy and I'm 
going to have her tell you her story she 
wanted to find love and Nita has become 
a Serial entrepreneur she sold her 
dental practices she is an author she is 
a three-time international best-selling 
author and now a world-renowned 
international Health Advocate she's 
founded the global grit Institute she 
has gotten married to her soul mate she 
has two little kids Nita welcome to the 
Smart dating Academy podcast 
it's so good to be here love oh my gosh 
thank you Bella I'm so happy to have you 
here and guys why did I bring Nita on 
today because last week I talked to you 
guys about becoming psychotically 
optimistic because the holidays can suck 
for a lot of us they can make us feel 
alone and lonely and have us asking God 
why me why am I still alone and all of 
that suck now speaking of suck my friend 
Nita wrote an amazing book called wait 
for it that sucked now what which is 
like the perfect title to Nita's life so 
Nita congratulations on your book let's 
get into this tell us about the suck 
that has happened to you for the last 20 
years of your life and where you are now 
oh my gosh wow okay we're gonna go all 
the way back well let's go let's go 
everybody while you're here and the fire 
that you have walked through girl and 
prevailed and how you're going to teach 
all of my beautiful singles how to help 
embrace the suck we're gonna go in and 
embrace the socks so it actually started 
out funny enough in December so December 
was when I hit my fall and and PR like 
the biggest fall of my life I thought I 
was 
I thought I had this like 
picture-perfect marriage and this 
picture-perfect dream you know home life 
that I had built and December 31st 2011. 
I was brought down to my knees and I was 
looking in the mirror and I finally saw 
myself like finally saw myself and 
finally understood that I was living 
this lie that I was in this toxic 
abusive marriage 
and that I was living my life for 
everybody else 
and despite the fact that I was to the 
outside this cosmetic dentist with this 
incredible practice I was not even 30 at 
the time 
I had thought I had built everything up 
along the side but I looked at the 
mirror for the first time on December 
31st's hearing the crowd and the cheer 
from the outside 
hearing fireworks and for me I'm sobbing 
for the very first time to myself in my 
master bedroom of this five-story home 
and I finally acknowledged and said I'm 
in an abusive relationship I felt like I 
was just mentally torn emotionally 
completely spiritually dead 
and for that first time I got up and I 
had to make moves I literally had to 
shift my life that day would be the last 
day that I would see that life that home 
uh that person 
um why that day Anita what happened that 
day yeah that was the last time I would 
let him hit me in the face and and this 
was going on for you know five years 
uh the marriage was you know only 16 
months but we had been together a total 
of five years and 
yeah that was the day that I would pick 
up and leave to reclaim a life that was 
for me because for the decade proceeding 
this relationship 
I had to go through tremendous loss I I 
recognized that I was hiding so much of 
the shame and guilt of where I came from 
what I had been through 
in the face of this marriage because I 
thought that getting married this 
picture-perfect marriage we had this 
Indian wedding and it was like 
photographed and filmed and all of the 
big things and it was the stream come 
true until it actually wasn't 
and I had to get honest with myself and 
what I was hiding was the fact that I 
didn't allow myself to grieve and to 
grieve the losses of my mom my dad and 
my brother and that happened within a 
five-year period between 
16 16 and 19 in my in my life and so I 
was left at 19 to raise my youngest 
brother who was 14 at the time 
and I thought okay well I want to just 
recreate a family that I lost so 
my coping mechanism in my early 20s and 
really throughout my adolescence when I 
was 16 when my mom was really sick when 
I lost my brother I would hold on to 
these 
relationships because I was so afraid of 
being alone and I know that you know 
this is a perfect podcast to talk about 
it because 
I didn't realize it until finally 
December 31st all I wanted to do was be 
alone and I was faced to be alone for 
the very first time because I took the 
brave steps to leave that circumstance 
and the biggest thing that I was so 
afraid of was 
wow I'm going to be judged I am going to 
be talked about because you know in our 
community lokiakenge what will people 
think right and that was this like 
looming thing in my mind of wow people 
are not going to know that I'm broken 
because I was so ashamed about the 
losses that I'd been through because it 
was such a huge part of my life that I 
thought I could hide and shove 
underneath a rug until the raw got so 
big 
that I couldn't no longer 
avoid it anymore I had to dive in and 
that's when the healing began that's 
when the the party really started that's 
when it got really juicy because that's 
when I really had an invite coming back 
into myself and focusing on pretty much 
you know the the next seven here years 
of those healing healing years to focus 
on 
me 
wow and I hope you guys heard that this 
woman who was a girl lost her mother 
to sickness her brother to an asthma 
attack and her father to cancer in four 
years between 15 and 19. I have an 18 
year old who just called me as Nita and 
I were getting ready to record and my 
heart it's like I I I I'm trembling I 
cannot imagine having a daughter that is 
almost 19 oh my God oh my God the tunnel 
of fire you have walked through and to 
create what you thought you had nobody 
advising you no gurus everybody you 
loved was gone and now you were a 
caretaker and little Nita decides to 
make Mom and Dad proud and marry the 
perfect Indian boy with the perfect life 
and the five-story house and all of the 
things to then realize finally the age 
of 30 that this is all a freaking facade 
and for the first time you're like 
it I'm not gonna keep sweeping it under 
the rug anymore I'm done and you walk 
away and for all of that 
I I so I salute you seems so trite for 
what I'm feeling I don't have the right 
words and 
um and I know you then decided to go on 
your own personal Journey you left the 
marriage you sold your practice you have 
become a coach to help people out of 
their sock and you have articulated the 
road that you have been down and how you 
got out of your stuff and now how you're 
teaching people okay that sucked and you 
certainly have had more suck my friend 
than the majority of us combined into 
five lifetimes so let's talk about let's 
talk about the suck like you said yeah 
it sucks we're all gonna go through 
horrible things when we're human right 
there is going to be suck but 
we all have a choice tell us there's 
chapter in your book called the victim 
mentality oh yeah and I think so many of 
us especially you going through what 
you've been through you can look at your 
life and say God why me haven't I had 
enough haven't you punched me in the 
face enough times when do I get a break 
why me talk to us about the victim 
mentality what it is why it's 
destructive and how the hell we get out 
of it oh gosh 
yeah I mean it was you know 
so recognizing that during that time 
even you know that 
I was a victim of domestic violence 
but I didn't want to really live there I 
was a victim of you know losing my 
family 
and I knew that one of the solid anchors 
that I've always had just remembering my 
parents the mantras that I grew up with 
when my dad would pray for three hours 
every Sunday in his meditation room and 
he would just be chanting and chanting 
108 times he had the Mala beads and we 
would be young little kids running 
around not knowing any better and trying 
to take the Mala beads out of the like 
Puja room and he would go chase us back 
and he wouldn't say anything he would 
just chase us grab his beads go back 
into and he was so dedicated but because 
I had that as like a constant in my life 
I knew that Faith was such a huge part 
of the journey and I was raised my mom 
was Filipino we did you know we did 
Catholic church on Sundays my dad was 
Hindu but he was seek as well you know 
in that part of Punjab he went to both 
of the things so he was like let's bring 
everything into the mix it doesn't 
matter we'll go to everything so for me 
to grow up with such a stronghold on 
spirituality were there times where I 
was so angry because I was like what the 
heck is happening like how could you 
even have faith and I remember vividly 
when I was 16 years old 
and 
um you know people coming to my mom's 
funeral and giving me all of these books 
because really at 16 all you want to do 
is really fit in right you don't want to 
be the one that lost her mom yeah and 
God forbid a year later going through it 
the same time again like immediately A 
year later and on your youngest 
brother's uh 12th birthday and you're 
left with nobody knows what to say we're 
not taught how to you know have these 
difficult conversations or even being 
there for another friend let alone as a 
dating partner like everyone was in 
shock and so but what we did have was we 
had music what we did have was the 
chanting at the mothers and at all of 
these places and so 
when I talk about victim mentality in 
the book 
you know I I want to be very 
um you know very very forthcoming 
because I know that some of you right 
now may have been in an actual victim 
mentality where you were the victim 
where you were the victim legit 
something go yeah painfully going 
through and maybe you're a victim of 
violence sexual abuse maybe there are 
some of those things that you know and I 
want to honor that and I want to respect 
you for it 
and some of us might be living because I 
was that victim but some of us might be 
actually living in the victim mindset in 
that victim mentality where there's a 
story in my book about pre 
who uh she was one of my clients and she 
was she was going on all the dating apps 
she finally found a guy and she got 
ghosted and she went into her victim 
spiral and the spiral of I'm not good 
enough I'm not I'm not worthy enough I'm 
not pretty enough oh look at other 
people it on on this comparisons spiral 
and it's so easy to do that when 
everything around you is going 
wrong and I think it's great to say that 
sucked and to embrace and sit in the 
suck because for me I didn't sit in the 
sock for almost two decades I was 
charting along shoving things under a 
rug stuffing it in the back closet 
because I didn't want to be the one that 
didn't fit in I wanted to fit in I just 
wanted to have some sense of quote 
unquote normalcy 
even though I knew my path was kind of 
not normal by any means 
yet that victim mindset if we are stuck 
in the suck if we think our entire world 
revolves around the one instance or the 
two instances or the three instances 
that we got rejected or got ghosted or 
got burned 
we've got to work on changing that 
mindset and for me it was okay 
there's this reality but then there's 
also a Survivor reality where whoa 
you've survived through something you've 
been through something and now you 
actually have some of the tools to maybe 
take some personal responsibility I 
can't take personal responsibility for 
the losses that I've had but can I take 
personal responsibility for how I am 
going to deal with the healing part of 
that because what I've learned is that 
there are ways to now 
uh integrate some of the hard sucks in 
life to then say all right now what what 
is that action step and I think for so 
many of us especially you know for all 
the singles in the room and I was this 
way too I would go I would Teeter I 
would go between ah man I'm not ready 
for it yet or I don't know my heart's 
gonna just get broken again or you know 
I was celibate for two years after my 
divorce because I was I was afraid and I 
was like trying to do the work and 
saying yes to doing the work but then 
retreating back and saying oh I don't 
know but what I really really needed to 
focus on was healing that little girl in 
me and each of us have a little person 
in herself that at one point was stuck 
in the suck was stuck in the victim 
mentality and she couldn't move forward 
and we have to honor that part now I 
couldn't move forward Into the Now what 
the victor until I acknowledge my 
vulnerability in the okay that really 
sucked I see you I see the little girl 
in you that just wanted love that just 
wanted to recreate a family and that's 
all you knew to have compassion for that 
little girl and now you get to choose so 
you get to choose who enters in your 
life but in order to choose we've got to 
take the risks and we've got to say yes 
to get out of the suck which means and I 
talk about a concept in the book called 
The Bounce factor which I know we'll get 
to but one of the things of the bounce 
factor that I talk about is we have to 
embrace good stress we've got to invite 
ourselves to do some hard things which 
means 
say yes to new experiences say yes to 
for me it was working with the coaches 
and the therapists that would forever 
ever ever change my life and change my 
trajectory I mean it's one of the 
reasons why I went into coaching and 
investing in coaching and even starting 
a coaching company 
because of the experience that I've had 
with you know people like you Bella 
need to tell us something you wrote 
about in your book which I absolutely 
love about the stoics talk about Amor 
Fati 
yes oh wow so I oh gosh you know right 
after my my dad passed away so it was my 
my mom my brother and my dad and I was 
just so I was like I need to get out of 
Chicago I like my soul was yearning for 
an experience and I just needed to like 
I was like I'm done I I can't I need to 
live on for me I couldn't go away to 
college I got into all the colleges 
um I couldn't go away so after my dad 
died it was 
um the summer that I turned 21 and I 
like begged my aunt and my grandmother 
they were like the matriarchs in my 
family my aunt was my dad's sister my 
grandmother was my mom's mother and they 
were the ones kind of like wolf pack 
that that raised or helped raise my 
brother and I and and my aunt my buo was 
like there's no way you're going 
absolutely not and I'm like I need this 
because I'm like I'm going to dental 
school I need all of the things so I 
like made this like this you know this 
thing up around why I needed to be there 
well I ended up going on a study abroad 
trip to Italy and that was like dream 
come true for me because For the First 
Time Ever Getting off that plane in Rome 
in Roma at the you know at the campus 
there they added Loyola campus there in 
in Rome 
and it was like oh my God and I was 
taking you know Italian philosophy and 
basically the first day in my Italian 
philosophy course they're talking about 
the stoics and that was my first kind of 
foray into you know the the term Amor 
Fati which is love of one's fate and it 
was so I mean this couldn't be more 
poignant for my journey because I I I 
was like didn't want to tell people what 
I had been through because everyone was 
introducing themselves you know that's 
always like the weird awkward question 
like oh tell me about you where'd you 
grow up what do your parents do and like 
I hated that question because for me 
 I've gotta share like all right all 
all like I gotta let all the cat out of 
the bag you know right now and then I'm 
gonna be the one that like so I was so 
afraid to share so I would always 
deflect it so I was like my in my like 
quick you know early stage coaching 
skills I would say tell me about you 
tell me more about you so but it was in 
this Italian philosophy class in Rome of 
all places where I fell in love with the 
term Amor Fati and we learned about you 
know Marcus Aurelius who was you know 
one of the Italian great who you know uh 
ruled Italy but he was all about loving 
and the stoics were all about loving 
one's fate no matter what 
and it then had me think everything you 
know comes at its place for a reason 
right I was meant perhaps I was meant to 
go through this and and you know I think 
it's been part of my spiritual 
upbringing as well 
and always thinking that find my parents 
and this was like the Turning Point 
having heard this term and spending this 
time in Italy it was like such a 
cathartic and healing practice for me 
because For the First time ever I wasn't 
having to worry if somebody was going to 
die because guess what the worst had 
already happened 
unfortunately and two I could literally 
spread my wings and I was in this 
foreign country new students nobody knew 
me I could actually 
you know choose to share whatever felt 
right and maybe not choose to share and 
so that's how I became such a great uh 
question asker during these times uh but 
really it all kind of snapped into place 
around the Amor Fati of really loving 
Our Fate no matter what the circumstance 
was and that allowed for the you know 
really the greatest uh the greatest 
healing 
this concept is so important Amore Amor 
Fati f-a-t-i and like Nita said it's 
about loving your fate and it doesn't 
mean it didn't suck and it doesn't mean 
it didn't hurt but it means okay I I 
have you know told you guys many times 
I've been a student of people like 
some of the greatest people that I think 
are on earth and Tony Robbins always 
says can you find the meaning in your 
mass 
right okay that sucked says Dr Nita now 
what is the meaning does it mean there 
wasn't a mess no it means okay now what 
can I do with this I have a choice of 
how I respond 
and in the dating world so many of us 
have been ghosted we've been 
disappointed we've been betrayed we've 
been cheated on we've been hit we've 
been emotionally bruised we've been 
blindsided we've been divorced 
right and 
and 
while nobody would ever say well suck it 
up buttercup it's okay you know what 
here is my story and here's the vat of 
soup that I'm standing in now what what 
can I do what was what's the meaning 
that I can find in these circumstances 
that I'm in at this point and think 
about it for yourself dear listener are 
you that person are you the person 
that's been ghosted maybe you never got 
the love from your parents that you 
wanted and you don't know how to love 
maybe you consider yourself God I've 
never been in love I don't know that 
I've been in love I don't know that 
anybody has ever loved me am I lovable 
and asking yourself a million questions 
could somebody love me the way I yearn 
to be loved without you know riding a 
tractor over my heart again and again 
and knowing the simple fact of the 
matter is yes you can have everything 
but the first step is saying okay here's 
where I am now and now what is the 
lesson here what can I take from this 
how can I move forward tell me if I got 
the concept right oh my gosh absolutely 
such a I mean such a queen of of that 
and I think that you know to add to that 
it's a really embracing the 
vulnerability of the suckiness of that 
moment because it's not like we can 
change Our Fate you know the stoics 
Marcus Aurelia Seneca you know all of 
the greats they they were actually 
anticipating the suck many times over 
and that's really what made them 
so uniquely placed in you know perhaps I 
feel like sometimes you know going too 
overboard where they didn't even allow 
themselves to feel so that's like you 
know step number two is to then allow 
yourself to experience the suck but I 
think Bella to your point you know 
especially when we are dating like I can 
even share for myself yeah for those two 
years I was I was scared I was until I 
got support and and dove into the 
healing and dove into the reasons why so 
with a more fatty we're we're saying 
yeah that really sucked and we can't 
change it we can only make peace with it 
we can try to start integrating it to 
start seeing how does this New 
Perspective that has shifted in my life 
am I going to think all men suck am I 
gonna think all you know because I dated 
and I was married to an Indian man all 
Indian men suck which for a while was my 
story and it actually actually prevented 
me and I'm going to get real with you 
because I love you and I think for your 
listeners you know I think that's only 
fair but that was my story for the 
longest time right we think oh okay I'm 
not gonna date this person or this kind 
of person or or all men with blue eyes 
and we start generalizing why that can't 
be our person or you know from a certain 
race or a certain culture because that 
one bad experience happened but that was 
one bad experience right and I think for 
me it really like I I had to focus on 
myself healing which then took me to 
Bali Indonesia and I made a pledge I 
literally made a pledge to myself and 
this was after having worked with 
coaches and having worked with 
therapists and I did all sorts of 
different healing and uh and this was 
the commitment that I had to myself to 
say okay I'm gonna marry myself I know 
it sounds so cheesy and it sounds so 
lame and it sounds so weird however 
listeners listen up because this was my 
first time that I'm actually saying I 
value me first I see the little girl in 
me that just wanted to feel seen and 
feel hurt and feel loved and I'm gonna 
do that for myself now 
and no matter what I'm going to honor 
who I am in whatever relationship it is 
and that meant that okay well I'm gonna 
take myself on dates I am going to 
you know take care of me how I would 
want my partner to treat me and before 
then I felt like I was trying to wait 
for like Prince Charming to come along 
where I'm like no I actually have to be 
the queen 
the creek the queen charmer of my life 
and it only happened until I had 
somebody else to reflect back with me 
somebody like you so someone you know 
the listeners listening in to reflect 
back and say well what parts of this are 
you willing to let go of and how are you 
willing to show up in relationship 
and so and literally I I journaled I 
have this whole um you know this is 2015 
and so get this it's 2015 
February I met my now husband two months 
later we reconnected two months later 
after I had that you know full uh uh 
Epiphany and and and Reclamation for 
myself this ritual that I had for myself 
um taking care of yourself and finally 
finally taking care of myself 
prioritizing myself and how did you what 
did you do you sold your business like 
tell people what did that yes yes give 
us your specifics so here's here's what 
happened in the in the years that I 
began to fall in love with myself I 
began to date myself I became so 
Unapologetic in how I want to lead my 
life because I was so focused on you on 
being that people pleaser saying yes to 
everybody around me being that martyr 
because I thought okay I learned that 
growing up happiness meant that you have 
to serve other people and your cup is 
last 
but when I started to put my needs first 
when I started to say okay I'm gonna go 
to this Meditation Retreat I'm gonna 
actually work with these coaches or sign 
up for this program or go to this 
Retreat or go to this networking event 
and just say yes to the things that many 
times scare us to the things that many 
times 
we think that okay uh it's it it may or 
may not go in a certain way because we 
need to be certain about things when we 
are okay with the uncertainty we can 
just 
say all right well that sucked now what 
we're not afraid of oh man if I go on 
this date if this doesn't happen then ah 
like what's that going to say about me 
like for a while I just was like 
unattached to all dating so it was like 
all right I'm gonna go and experience 
this person and it's okay if he's not my 
person I'm gonna thank that person for 
showing up in my life but I'm not going 
to take it personally that I'm not good 
at dating or my picker is broken I'm 
just going to 
say all right this is what it is and 
still say yes and not get jaded to the 
whole idea of dating because I think a 
lot of times you know at least in that 
stage of my life I had to say he's 
coming for me he's coming he's he's 
coming and for those who are listening 
they are coming you're doing the work 
and you're just every single person that 
you're meeting is getting you closer and 
closer so when I was getting really 
Unapologetic about that and there's a 
concept in the book that I talk about 
and it's called Uh the fly forward 
framework where you have a fall or a 
breakup or something tragic or crazy or 
big happens where you actually then 
stage two you have to have that ignition 
the fire under the belly the the fact 
that are you going to stay in this 
relationship are you going to go 
somewhere else are you going to stay or 
say no are you going to still be in this 
relationship or leave then we get into 
the rising stage agent for me the rising 
stage meant that I'm going to focus on 
me before I get into the magnify stage 
which is stage four the magnify stage is 
really all right I'm going to keep 
blossoming and guess what I'm saying yes 
to these dates but I'm also letting go 
of what no longer serves me which meant 
that I wanted to do more I wanted to 
invest in other women I was creating my 
own communities I started a non-profit 
and I sold my dental business I sold the 
building that came along with it a few 
years later I moved across country to 
San Francisco because I wanted to learn 
how startup the startup environment 
worked and I was mentoring startup 
Founders and that's you know when Bella 
and I she came to one of my uh you know 
seminars at that time with so many of 
these Founders and I think it's 
when you're exposing yourself to there's 
another concept I talk about in the book 
good stress doing the things that you 
wouldn't normally do leaning into 
discomforting situations if you don't 
normally go to a certain place to find 
people maybe you're opening yourself up 
to it maybe that's not your cup of tea 
but maybe you're saying okay let's see 
what I can learn from this 
that's when the real magic happens 
that's when the Magic in the mess really 
happens to you know to talk about my 
subtitle in the book is because 
then we are allowing ourselves to play 
and we're not getting attached to the 
outcome and so when I met my now husband 
we were in a different part of the world 
we were in Kuala Lumpur Malaysia we then 
a year later uh would meet again at a 
speaking conference in India and I was 
speaking at the same conference that he 
was and I was finishing my first book 
and it was every single time when we met 
it was always in a different country 
and I said yes to the adventure but with 
a caveat and Bella you'd be very proud 
of me because 
I felt like I was retracting back to my 
same patterns and I talk about this in 
the book where when you're at a stage 
stage five is thriving and when you're 
at a stage of where you know that 
all right your heart's been broken 
before and you're still afraid of 
opening yourself up so I was like one 
foot in and one foot out but you know 
you're in the thriving stage so I had to 
you know I have these uh prompts and 
journal prompts in the book throughout 
the book but I had to do what I say in 
the book which was all right I know that 
I am maybe being reserved and cautious 
right now but can I also lean into 
curiosity can I also lean into 
excitement can both of these feelings 
coexist at the same time because I'm 
human and there's still part of me 
that's tender but am I going to lead 
with honesty because guess what I want 
in a partner the very first thing that I 
want is honesty so am I going to be 
honest in conveying that to Ajit which 
was partner at the time well we were we 
were starting to do the dance of dating 
even though I was you know I was gonna I 
thought I was gonna self Sabbath Taj 
again and say no 
you know ah we're both traveling see you 
in the Bahamas in a year since we just 
keep meeting another right like 
countries you know he's traveling I 
don't know we we may not and I just said 
hey you know I'm I'm at the stage of my 
life I had to be honest so I had to go 
first I had to be vulnerable which is 
what I'm sharing is that it is so uh 
it's so fearful because you feel like 
you're gonna wear your heart on your 
sleeve but if you want that person to 
also be that way 
perhaps go first and I had to say hey if 
you're willing to do this dance do you 
wanna I'm gonna be in New York for a 
couple months he's like I'm gonna be in 
San Diego for a few months let's meet in 
the middle and that's when we started to 
do the dance and 
ten cities around the world in a year 
and a half later we had our very first 
ceremony 
wow 
wow amazing amazing amazing and you led 
with honesty and vulnerability right and 
what you got back was exactly that 
and a great husband and two great kids 
and let's Circle back again there's some 
Concepts in your book but I want to make 
sure that we uh don't bounce over no pun 
intended let's talk about you alluded 
very quickly to two things that I want 
to relate to in the dating and 
relationship context let's talk about 
bounce Factor what that is and how we 
can positively affect our bounds factor 
and then we'll talk about flying forward 
and the five steps to doing that and 
dating so tell us about bounce oh yes 
let's bounce 
so 
the bounce Factor so I got you know 
during my the journey I got asked uh to 
speak at several places because of my 
story obviously and I started becoming 
and gaining this uh recognition as like 
the queen of grit the queen of 
resilience and when my first book came 
out and you'll really appreciate this 
spell I was asked to speak at 
um in Palo Alto and Palo Alto for those 
of you listeners who don't know it's 
where the folks from the tech World they 
send their children and uh during that 
time they had lost a few kids in their 
school to suicide and so they had asked 
me to come on to share my story and they 
said can you build resilience without 
going through really adverse 
things in life can you build resilience 
and for those of you who are single and 
trying to find relationships and are so 
you know getting jaded with the whole 
process can you build resiliency without 
having to go through some of these 
things and and that really pegged a 
bigger larger question that what I was 
actually dealing with because I was 
dealing with my own heartbreak and 
losses 
and but it really set the Precedence for 
the bounce Factor because what I have 
garnered now from that time is yeah 
there are four components to your bounce 
factor and how how high you can bounce 
and if you have any bounce at all and 
what actually contributes to it so if 
you feel that you are feeling jaded in 
the dating process here's why well first 
have you actually made peace with your 
upbringing because many times most often 
and this is what I shared with that 
Community as well either were born with 
tiger parents either were born with 
parents who are helicopter parents 
trying to figure everything out for us 
or tiger parents who don't let us do 
anything or maybe you were raised not 
talking back to your elders in certain 
cultures or maybe you were raised by a 
single mom who didn't really want to 
show emotion or a narcissistic mom or uh 
you know an emotionally unavailable 
father there are all of these 
opportunities that we can heal but it 
actually gets passed on to us and then 
we carry this on in the way that we 
relate in our relationships and then we 
go on and we attract a partner who we 
think should fix the real the the the 
the parts of us that we haven't healed 
like the broken relationship with our 
dad or the fact that our mom was never 
there and we've we've been longing so we 
have this mom wound or this Dad wound 
that we have not yet healed and it shows 
up in our upbringing so that's the first 
piece the second piece is the ability to 
increase our good stress so the ability 
to lean into whether it's difficult 
conversations whether it's going first 
right that vulnerability that I just 
shared and if you're so used to people 
reading your mind uh like how we would 
love I love we would love that to happen 
but in order to really get clear with 
our desires and what we want we have to 
voice them and that means we have to 
practice saying I would really like if 
blank but if you're a people people 
pleaser or if you are the Martyr or if 
you want people to like read your mind 
that means that you have no bounce 
because you're not willing to put 
yourself under good stress that's your 
current environment that's step two 
current environment good stress step 
three is your emotional capacity to feel 
your emotional capacity to feel the 
feels which means 
okay when you're really upset are you 
able to feel where you are getting upset 
actually feel it in your gut feel it in 
your chest feel it in your head like 
where do you normally feel that if you 
are angry or disappointed are you able 
to fully experience it and embody it or 
are you one that's just like all right 
I'm gonna just brush it off and what's 
next and let me just go on dopamine hit 
because right I'm gonna go for a run 
I'll be back just go for a run 
vintage I'm gonna go for a run I'll be 
back go for a run too far away from it 
is it Rose yet five o'clock let me let 
me do that you know and that was me for 
a very long time right I would go and 
and dance my sorrows out at an as an 
early you know early 30s go to the bars 
Thursday night you know you know where I 
would be heading up in Chicago Thursday 
Friday Saturday that was what I was 
doing 
and all of a sudden Monday again going 
to extreme sports so I would train for 
triathlons I would train for a hundred 
mile bike rides so that that was you 
know in many ways my release but I 
didn't really allow myself to sit in 
that sock so your emotional capacity to 
feel and then finally four is your 
radical self-awareness your radical 
self-awareness and when I mean radical 
self-awareness your RSA that is your 
ability to say oof 
that person love bomber nah no thanks no 
thanks uh because I know the value that 
I bring to the table or to really assess 
okay is this right for me and maybe the 
people that I maybe I have a pattern 
here maybe maybe I keep saying yes to 
these people because I haven't yet 
healed part of my upbringing that's why 
these types of people are 
getting attracted to me or getting 
magnetized towards me and I'm accepting 
them yes and and not accepting them into 
your reality and actually saying no 
that's building your radical 
self-awareness when it comes to dating 
and so uh so all of these four 
components comprise your ability to 
bounce when things get rough right and 
bounce guys that means you hit the 
ground but you have levity you have 
momentum and you can recover and land on 
your feet again and so much of this is 
exactly what 
having coaches around you helps you to 
do because sometimes you can't see your 
own patterns sometimes you don't know 
you're so in the suck that you're just 
like I'm lonely I'm gonna take the next 
person that comes to me it's better than 
being alone and then it's same dude 
different face decade over decade right 
and that is not radical self-awareness 
either right that is radical you know 
self-sabotage to some extent and it's 
not looking at me what am I doing I've 
told you guys the story of my story on 
this podcast so many times the common 
denominator in all of my messes was this 
five foot three little being right I 
accepted this stuff I accepted the red 
flaggy people I accepted the bad 
behavior right and once you look at 
yourself and say I am where I am because 
of the choices I've made to some extent 
or the hand that was dealt to me but now 
I can choose 
Amor Fati I can choose to find the 
meaning in my mess and I can choose a 
better way right and all of these things 
and I love 
understanding your upbringing your 
upbringing is everything with regards to 
you guys that have worked with us you 
know how much we talk about fixing your 
picker and attachment and a couple of 
weeks ago I had somebody come on the 
podcast who talked about family 
constellation therapy and I know that 
you talk about generational trauma Anita 
and how it comes down from our great 
grandparents to our grandparents to our 
parents to us so it's like one of my 
favorites 
we are the trauma of our families living 
breathing nature nurture who's 
going to help us through this right and 
the good news is there are so many ways 
and resources to help you through this 
and we are all the sum total of our 
generational traumas Nita and I both 
have parents that were immigrants that's 
a massive trauma in and of itself and 
then to be the children of immigrants to 
have loss to move so many times I went 
to eight different schools before I 
graduated high school right because this 
is immigrants you move you move you move 
and every time you have to reinvent 
yourself right and okay what did that 
what did that make me do it made me 
realize okay 
I can talk to anybody wherever I go 
right I can make friends with somebody 
over Zoom because I had to do this year 
over year over year every other year 
changing schools so 
um looking at those things and being 
self-aware I suck at those I'm good at 
this so I'm going to get better at some 
of these things so everything Nita is 
saying you guys is so amazing and her 
book does such a great job at talking 
about this and let's talk about now that 
we know how to bounce let's talk about 
how do we fly forward Nita what's our 
five-step process as as single people or 
maybe as people like you and me in 
long-term relationships right maybe 
we've got long-term friendships we've 
got in-laws how do we fly forward 
through the sock yes okay yes so flying 
forward starts out with recognizing you 
had a fall or recognizing step one stage 
one that you had a fall and stage two 
that there is that ignition the ignite 
that something has to change either you 
have to have a difficult conversation or 
you have to you're saying maybe you're 
saying yes to yourself in this stage and 
you're not spiraling into victim 
mentality anymore you're going into a 
thriver's mindset because you know ah 
okay that's going into my old ways of 
how I used to do things and when we get 
into that stage three which is rising 
now Rising when it comes into the dating 
world the dating context or even in our 
relationships when we're Rising we're 
acting from a place of curiosity we're 
acting from a place of oh I'm not going 
to judge him or her or they or whatever 
we're just going to act like every day 
is a new day in relationship every day I 
am committed to rediscovering who I am 
in a relationship and who my partner is 
that we're not fixated on what they did 
yesterday or the dishes or what have you 
or maybe their past that we're going 
forward we're moving forward we're 
flying forward and every day is a new 
day too 
lay in that container and then when we 
get into the magnify stage the magnify 
stage is really it's not about you 
anymore it's not about 
what you've been through now it's about 
the relationship that you want to grow 
with your partner Your Love Your your 
long lasting love relationship and 
whether it is a new relationship or 
rekindling what you already have maybe 
it's setting things on the calendar like 
for Ajit and I now in this stage of our 
relationship with having Littles we have 
date night set and actually three out of 
the four times in the month because we 
know we have an intention to set that 
that's going to happen 75 of the time 
which is great and if it happens the 
fourth time great you know with life you 
know it's not like a zero-sum game it's 
not like black or white we have to have 
some flow we have to have some Grace and 
so if we can do it you know eighty 
percent of the time great if it happens 
50 of the time great but we know that 
it's a standard on our calendar and 
I'm not going to you know get mad at him 
if it's like okay he's like babe 
something happens but it is the thing is 
is it's in our intention and it's 
blocked on the calendar so that's one of 
the ways and if you are actually dating 
yourself right now you can block time in 
your calendar when you're in the magnify 
stage to say all right this is that time 
for me this is that solo time for me for 
that bath time that walk that time to 
reflect for me and nobody else that's 
when you're in the magnify stage when 
you know that all right well there could 
be some times where I still feel like I 
don't know I'm not ready for this 
long-term commitment or I'm going to 
have these weird thoughts in my head and 
think is this relationship going to last 
but you now know how to regulate 
yourself you now know with the tools 
that I have in my book to help you 
combat some of these feelings that we 
have which are absolutely normal because 
we are human but then we get into the 
thriving stage and the thriving stages 
it's no longer a sense that we're we're 
going to like we're not afraid of 
falling again because we know that at 
this stage we're actually flourishing we 
know that at this stage that if we have 
a fight it doesn't mean it's the end of 
the world fighting is actually a good 
thing that means repair reconciliation 
and in a really good healthy 
relationship we want to know how we 
fight because the repair 
uh it actually invites more ways to 
build a stronger bridge in a bond and I 
know that Bella you talk a lot about 
this in strong relationships but the way 
that we fight tells us everything and 
that's the juicy part because the repair 
is so good it actually brings up the 
best and that's where we know we're in 
thriving because we know we're not going 
to say ah a fight means that oh no this 
isn't going to last a fight just means 
okay how can we actually twist the 
puzzle pieces so it fits differently so 
that at this stage in our lives 
we're actually going to be a different 
couple or at this stage of our 
relationship whether it's two months in 
three months and six months in I might 
have to ask a different question to get 
to know her or him a little bit better 
and that's actually beautiful 
in in our house and even in my extended 
family I mean I've got a husband two 
teenagers I have a brother a 
sister-in-law parents and we say 
conflict is nothing to be feared you're 
gentle with your words because your 
words are knives and knives leave scars 
when we put them on the skin but look at 
conflict as a way to say I need this and 
you need this how do we get to a better 
place so never view conflict when you 
come from a place of love and saying you 
look at your relationship like you would 
rock climbing with every conflict comes 
a higher step up towards the peak of a 
solid happy relationship that's how you 
thrive so let me go back to Let's 
Pretend We're going into Peak dating 
season right now and lots of our 
listeners you know maybe they've been 
broken up with maybe they're like oh I 
hate online dating I'm so jaded like do 
I have to to do this again because Bell 
is constantly saying January it's going 
to be the busiest online dating date of 
the year if we want to fly forward for 
Peak dating season take a single person 
through the five steps maybe it's a 
jaded dater a man or a woman so now 
we've we're falling we're on the ground 
we're like dating sucks I hate the apps 
there's no good people out there there's 
nobody out there for me I suck I'm too 
old I'm too damaged I'm too heavy all of 
that stuff we're on the ground is that 
falling like where that is falling that 
is that is you're in the falling stage 
yep that's falling stage absolutely 
okay so that's falling so now we're on 
the ground so for all of you if you can 
listen to me who's on the ground who's 
following me me me right okay 
everybody's on the ground now we've 
Fallen now what's the next step Nita how 
do we ignite ourselves and fly forward 
it's Peak dating season I want to ignite 
every single one of you right now to put 
a spark under your booty and get it 
going and ignite you to do something how 
do we do that how do we ignite ourselves 
if you don't have Bella Gandhi and Smart 
dating Academy nipping at your little 
heels to get up and ready for for Peak 
dating season how does one ignite 
themselves now you're on the ground 
you've Fallen yeah you're falling you're 
asking a different question you're 
probably saying I need help I need help 
and I need I need help is the first step 
I don't want to do what I've already 
done or I've been doing because I'm 
meant for more that's when you are spark 
talking The Light Within you because 
before you probably Saw The Light it was 
trying to spark but you kept going back 
into that circle now you're igniting and 
you're asking a different question 
you're saying I'm not good at this I'm 
not that good at this I keep hearing 
what Bella has to say maybe it's time I 
I work with her I work with somebody I 
actually say yes to a different part of 
myself that's yearning for more because 
I know I meant for more that's the first 
question to acknowledge that there is 
something better there is that next 
potential that next level of potential 
in you to do something radically 
different that you've never done before 
for me it was leaving my marriage for me 
it was saying yes to a brand new life 
for me it was 
for saying no more to Dentistry for you 
it might just be getting support 
saying maybe saying yes to somebody that 
you wouldn't normally date because you 
probably are like actually all right 
I've dated 
these types of people for a really long 
time I'm gonna say yes to this person 
that person is trying to set me up with 
somebody all right I'm gonna say yes 
because what's the worst that could 
happen you actually have a really good 
conversation 
I love that and then what's next 
and then when we get into igniting so 
we're actually developing a new reality 
for ourselves we're Rising so think 
about every time you are saying yes to 
something that is scary to something 
that is so completely out of your 
comfort level that you're kind of like 
oh okay I'm actually developing this 
level of confidence in myself I'm 
actually kind of liking dating people 
that I wouldn't normally have said yes 
to because you're finding that Amor Fati 
you're saying all right so C'est La Vie 
this is it we're seizing the moment as 
well and when we're Rising we're 
actually developing a new skill of 
putting ourselves out there we're 
actually developing a new skill of 
probably practicing our needs stating 
our needs I would love it if you do this 
I know we're not going to talk about you 
know uh the sexual desires and things 
like that but what if you lean into that 
right yeah I would love it if and just 
communicate so that's one way an example 
of rising because you're building this 
muscle that's kind of a little weak you 
know that emotional Flex muscle that's a 
little bit weak but that's what we do in 
the rising so that when we get into the 
magnify stage 
we've got we've got an emotional 
six-pack or whatever we want to call it 
we've got that emotional strength to say 
all right if this relationship ends or 
if it doesn't work out I'm not going to 
go all the way back to a fall 
for sure and and we can then from there 
start perhaps maybe sharing our dating 
woes with friends and not being ashamed 
of it and actually proudly saying hey 
I'm single for this season 
and one being okay with that and that's 
that's the point of then getting into 
that thriving mindset where we're not so 
kicked off of our heels into a fall or 
the fall is not as hard as it used to be 
that's right I love that I love that so 
much and and what I can tell you guys 
too about how Nita's process you know 
when talking about flying forward 
dovetails right into the dating process 
I can give you some steps to take right 
if you've Fallen right I've got a bad 
picker I've never been in love I've 
never had a good relationship whatever 
this suck has been that you've been in 
let this be the time that you are 
ignited and become optimistic and tell 
yourself you know what 
love will come to me it's a when it's 
not an if and part of my ignition means 
I need to change some things up 
to find this person 
and maybe I need some help maybe I'm 
going to take a course maybe I'm going 
to get a coach maybe I'm going to call 
Bella maybe I'm going to get Nita's book 
whatever it is you're now igniting and 
then you start to rise from my 
perspective you know who your high GHQ 
guy is for women that are looking for 
men high in good husband qualities 
that's our process you are clear you 
stop the madness of dating the next 
narcissist the next avoidant you're 
looking for someone who's going to take 
the knot out of your stomach not give 
you butterflies this person that's going 
to feel like the Healthy Home that the 
little you has always wanted right and 
then you're gonna rise because you have 
a dating funnel you have 
a profile that's actually attracting 
people because you are beautiful and you 
are putting yourself out there as This 
Magnificent being that you are not with 
these janky old iPhone photos that 
you've had sitting around in your iPhone 
or your Android for four years because 
you're just too lazy or reticent to 
change anything up and you don't want to 
invest right and then when you start to 
do these things you start to magnify 
magnifying is 
so much goodness starts to come into 
your dating life you have more people 
that you're dating you don't settle you 
are speaking your truth you are dating 
from a place of authenticity you're 
getting rid of the red flaggers you're 
only letting good people in for repeat 
dates and that's how your dating life 
starts to thrive and when you are dating 
and you're having fun and you're open to 
the possibilities guess what starts to 
happen then 
the lid to your pot can arrive for you 
and suddenly you're like holy this 
was worth it all and this was the 
meaning in my mess I changed things up 
and now I've never been happier I can't 
believe it I would go to 10 different 
cities to be with my soul mate forget 
about dating across zip codes listen to 
what Nita did with her dating life right 
I'm not dating an Indian guy guess who 
she's married to an Indian guy right I 
mean go from India from India no bus 
from the Homeland okay not an Indian 
like she and I that are basically like 
we're fully Americanized with Indian 
heritages right and so so Never Say 
Never exactly never ever say never you 
guys know the story of Andy and me 
dating we were best friends for three 
years we were friends for six years 
before that and my dad would be like how 
do you 
it's like a girl it's not like spending 
time with a guy we're now married for 25 
years and have two teenagers Never Say 
Never but you have to look in the mirror 
you have to embrace the sock and you 
have to say now what right how am I 
going to make how am I gonna find 
the meaning in my mess and love my 
circumstances and get out of the victim 
mentality and take steps neither you are 
the living breathing manifestation for 
all that is beautiful I'm so proud of 
you you have grown so much since the 
first day I laid eyes on your beautiful 
face at Whole Foods and to think that 
you're here being interviewed on my 
podcast because you wrote an amazing 
book is such a testament to you thank 
you for sharing your story and for 
sharing your methodologies with us for 
your book and guys I'm going to put a 
link to buy Nita's book in our show 
notes and you are amazing I just a 
podcast episode dropped on Nita's 
podcast called The Brave table with me 
last week so make sure you go in and you 
listen to that as well so fun and 
um I adore you thank you for teaching us 
about the suck the bounce flying forward 
for sharing your story and for helping 
inspire all of us to bounce a little 
higher this peak dating season oh my 
gosh you wrapped it in the most 
beautiful bow I've ever heard anybody 
you're just so good you are such a gift 
and I'm so glad your listeners get to 
hear you week on a week basis I loved 
this episode so much thanks for having 
me love I love you 
and guys 
for Peak dating season if that didn't 
Inspire the pants off of you to change 
some stuff in your dating life I don't 
know what will if you're done with the 
suck please 
send an email to our website go to 
smartdatingacademy.com it's the perfect 
time of year 
to fly forward you guys it's your time 
to ignite and rise and Thrive the 
busiest online dating day of the year is 
January 8th 2023 look at yourself get 
out of your suck and start to fly 
forward sign up for a consultation with 
us get yourself a fairy godmother of 
dating because I know that it will make 
the biggest difference in your life that 
you've ever had until next week I send 
you a big hug a giant kiss and lots of 
love and light 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
this is the episode you've been waiting 
for who doesn't love a good love story 
you know me I love love I love helping 
people I love helping people find love 
and today our guest is 
a teacher in Chicago she's an author of 
an amazing book that will blow your mind 
and she's a smart dater and she's Found 
Love Against All Odds so I'm really 
excited to welcome my dear friend Sylvia 
fodey to the podcast today Sylvia thank 
you for being here hi fella so happy to 
be here so great to see you 
so Sylvia let's just Dive Right In to 
you your story which is an incredibly 
relatable and Incredibly inspiring for 
people 
um I'll you know I know you were married 
you 
were divorced you are from and I'll give 
you a spoiler guys about what Sylvia's 
book is about you're going to like lose 
your teeth over this Sylvia's family was 
Lithuanian royalty or considered 
Lithuanian royalty and Sylvia's mom on 
her deathbed her grandfather or her 
grandfather was a World War II hero who 
fought against the Communists and Mom 
says to Sylvia make sure honey that you 
capture your grandfather's history there 
are streets named after this man there 
are schools named after this man so as 
Sylvia starts to do the work 
she comes to a giant realization sort of 
horrifyingly that her grandfather wasn't 
who she thought he was so Sylvia do you 
want to tell us just a bit about that 
and then we'll Circle back to that at 
the end because your story is so amazing 
and what you're doing is amazing 
thanks yeah this was you know I grew up 
uh in Marquette Parks outside of Chicago 
very Lithuanian community 
and I always heard wonderful stories 
about my grandfather Jonas narenka who 
fought very bravely against the 
Communists 
and you know he died in a KGB prison 
um he was in a Nazi concentration camp 
uh so lots of things happened to him 
um and anyway my mom was always going to 
write this book on her father uh because 
the Lithuanian Community here asked her 
to do that she died very early she was 
only 60 years old oh wow and uh in the 
year 2000 and I was 38 then a full-time 
journalist and anyway she realized she 
ran out of time and asked me to take 
over her project 
and uh it was a pretty insane death bed 
promise but when your mom asked you to 
do something like that under those 
circumstances what other answer can you 
give except yeah except yes a giant yes 
so 
um I said yes and 
um then I got really into this into the 
whole project and very early on within 
that first year 
I came across evidence that he 
participated in the Holocaust in 
Lithuania and in a rather large way 
um so you know I mean I I do hour-long 
uh talks on this but you know I I ended 
up finding out he played a role in 
murdering 14 000 Jews oh my God in 
Lithuania 
um and 
um Lithuania has 
the highest number highest percentage of 
Jews killed in all of Europe so uh and I 
did not know this either before going 
into all this so if you were Jewish you 
had a three percent chance of surviving 
the Holocaust in Lithuania 
you had a better chance in Germany and 
Austria you know homeland of Hitler uh 
than you did in Lithuania so 
um my story basically upended the whole 
Narrative of lithuania's role in the 
Holocaust because 
unfortunately my grandfather wasn't the 
only one who enthusiastically 
participated 
in the murder of Jews and so you know 
until my book came out lithuania's story 
was it was all the Nazis they did it but 
um my book is pushing back against that 
narrative and saying that no uh they 
couldn't have done it without the 
lithuanians so that's kind of the gist 
of it oh my gosh I have Goosebumps 
Sylvia what a what an incredible 
Discovery and how 
the choice you made to boldly tell the 
story and at your own risk at your 
family's own risk to set the truth free 
and to tell people what actually 
happened I have Goosebumps I know the 
first time you told me this story I 
literally I couldn't believe it and and 
you know you're an amazing you're a hero 
for doing what you're doing for so many 
people and I know that you've undergone 
a lot of threats a lot of a lot of 
backlash sometimes from your own people 
opinions still are in denial over the 
role of their ancestors and the role of 
the Holocaust and I get it because it 
took me 10 years to get over the denial 
it took me 20 years to write the book 
and ten of those years was that 
psychological work of just 
um accepting the Ugly Truth and uh many 
with Wayne's are still stuck in the 
denial stage here and uh in Lithuania so 
wow and and speaking of lithuanians 
let's try let's let's kind of come to 
you and your life and your marriage tell 
us just kind of tell us 
how you what your story is and then how 
you and how you found love 
well my ex 
uh you talk about the well I uh was 
married for 35 years 
um I met him in Argentina I was a 
journalist working there 
and we did fall in love uh he wasn't 
Lithuanian and 
um anyway uh came back to Chicago had 
our life 
I'm gonna skip a lot of parts that's 
fine you tell the story in any way you 
want 
but well this is you know I mean the 
saddest part of the whole story is you 
know we have two we had two children the 
oldest 
um her name was Alessandra and uh 
she met a boy who lives three blocks 
away and he introduced her to heroin 
and 
um apparently the heroine was horrible 
and she got hooked in three after three 
times with a this is also a whole other 
story but anyway 
um she died of an overdose in 2015. 
and she was uh 21 years old and of 
course uh devastating to the whole 
family 
um and 
my ex and I really couldn't recover from 
it it seemed and that's basically the 
main reason why our uh marriage 
dissolved I mean there were other things 
but that was the overriding thing 
so 
um 
you know he asked for the divorce uh May 
2019 
and I did not see it coming 
oh wow you were blindsided I was 
completely blindsided I just did not see 
it coming I was uh devastated you know I 
mean as bad as what we went through with 
our daughter I thought at least the 
marriage would survive but it did a 
um and 
um 
I don't know where to take this 
uh I guess you know it took two years 
for the divorce to get finalized uh 
covid was in between all that so that 
slowed things down we didn't I mean as 
far as divorces when it was a gentle 
divorce we 
we 
figured out uh and I understand that 
that's unusual 
um so in that sense at least it was 
gentle you know the whole emotional part 
of breaking up was terrible but the but 
the The Legal Financial part was rather 
gentle so uh it became finalized last 
May so it's going to be a year now in 
May so may 2021. yeah May 21 2021 and I 
had already uh been hearing about you by 
then because 
after uh I know about six months after 
he asked for the divorce and I it really 
sunk in you know I had gone through all 
my denial that this is really gonna 
happen I begged him to change his mind 
he didn't 
um then it really sunk in that this is 
going to be the end and I'm like I think 
at the time I was uh 59 turning 16 I'm 
like 
I have to start over 
at the age of 60. are you kidding me 
after 35 years I mean are you kidding me 
so of course I freaked out and 
um 
you know I started I'm you know my 
background's journalism now I'm a high 
school English teacher I'm a really big 
reader so I bought every single book on 
dating that is out there and I really 
like 20 I don't know at least 20 of them 
and 
that's what I do when I freak out I just 
read and figure out try to figure out 
things and then I came across you 
um your IG lives and 
um I kept thinking about it and thinking 
about and thinking about and then you 
know we have a mutual friend Jill who I 
also talked to about uh with you about 
you to her and you know she highly 
recommended you but I'd already been 
impressed with you by then 
um anyway 
and I thought I can't do this by myself 
there's no way I can start over and then 
to add all this you know my book had 
come out and I my high school 
um Proviso Math and Science Academy gave 
me a sabbatical for a whole year which 
is unusual in high school level but I 
got a sabbatical for the whole year to 
promote my book 
and I thought this is a good year to 
like I have the time you know to start 
something because because I don't know 
you know starting a relationship is 
really something and 
um I thought if I'm ever gonna because 
if I'm gonna do it this would be a good 
year to meet someone and you know get 
things going 
uh so I was trying to be very logical in 
this crazy emotional time and and I 
thought all right once I signed on with 
you I thought I still hope I still 
wanted to be 
um divorced for six months like I don't 
want to be separated you know looking 
for some because I was very serious 
about 
really finding someone long term I mean 
I'm 60 I'm not gonna like do the bar 
scene and all that you're gorgeous 60. 
nobody would ever guess you were 60. 
Sylvia 
still it's still you know I I would like 
I can't you can't lie about you're like 
you have to and I I wouldn't lie about 
it anyway but 
um so 
um I guess that's the setup I I signed 
on with you and maybe we can start from 
there you I remember it was last summer 
you were fresh out of your divorce 
because now we're doing this and it's 
about May 2022 and you did one of our 
love lab workshops and you know I 
remember seeing this beautiful woman who 
said I'm a com we have a common friend 
she'll share a Murphy and for you dear 
listener you probably heard you've seen 
Joe on my Instagram live show or I've 
had Jill on this podcast talking about 
the let go of bulls to find your own big 
wild love so as soon as I knew I saw 
Sylvia at the love lab workshop and I 
knew if she's friends with Jill we're 
definitely gonna help you find love and 
so you took the plunge early probably 
mid last summer right and said I'm gonna 
do this I'm gonna work with you for six 
months and do you think this will work 
for me and I said well of course it's 
going to work for you right of course 
it's gonna work and the first step right 
was we had to get prepared for your 
photo shoot so tell us a little bit 
about that and you worked with Eileen 
Collins from my team who's an amazing 
coach and is a dear friend of yours now 
as well 
yeah that photo ship was a big trip I 
mean 
um you know I had to get uh clothes you 
know for for the photo shoot and I'm 
digging things out of my closet and I'm 
putting them on and I'm showing Eileen 
like in a zoom like this 
she's like 
no in her Eileen way like I think we 
could do something different don't you 
think 
so you know I had like blacks and Grays 
and Browns and boxies uh you know boxy 
things like covering me up completely 
and I think you were on a couple of them 
too do you have anything a little bit 
more form-fitting no 
so 
um I did I finally started putting on 
the more form-fitting thing you 
introduced me to Spanx oh my God every 
woman's dearest friend is a good pair of 
Spanx or by the way I have friends that 
will wear two and three pairs of Spanx 
one on top of the other so just saying 
this has been a discovery this year like 
oh my God more than one like one is 
painful enough right yeah two and three 
oh my gosh oh my God uh if you're 
desperate maybe for a book thing I'll 
have to put on three oh my gosh that's 
so funny and your photos were so 
beautiful and maybe what we'll do as 
well with your permission we'll give you 
a little page on our site and we'll put 
some of your photos on there to show you 
guys if this you need somebody who's 
gonna speak truth to you like Sylvia's 
saying and saying you're beautiful 
you're hiding right you're hiding and 
sometimes we're hiding what we think 
our ages or we're hiding oh my gosh I'm 
not as fit as I want to be and we wear 
these things that hide our Beauty and so 
I'm here to tell you what Sylvia as 
living proof do not hide yourself you 
are beautiful as you are and have 
someone objective maybe it's a friend 
maybe it's a coach call me to tell you 
nah girl you gotta pop that Berry lip 
let's proof the hair a little bit let's 
get you in that let's get you that Red 
Dress moment whatever that is where you 
feel like Cinderella and then you become 
beautiful from the outside in and you 
carry that magic with you which is what 
you did at your photo shoot which was 
step one in attracting the boys to you 
so let's go there how was dating 
well 
um we started November 3rd 
and 
um 
November 3rd yeah I got a really good 
response I mean a lot of people were 
responding and I was messaging back 
and 
um 
you know 
uh Rudy 
uh the one I'm I'm with now 
um messaged me almost right away I click 
it like a weekend maybe and we started 
messaging a lot to each other 
um he was talking he asked about my book 
and so we talked a lot about my book and 
of course that already was winning my 
heart and 
um and then we were talking more 
literary things like about Hemingway 
and we we talked about you know we were 
messaging that and then anyway Eileen uh 
you uh 
has a session with me every two weeks to 
kind of talk about how things are going 
and she actually went goes on match with 
me like I have to give her my password 
and she goes on there and I'm a little 
freaking out over this and she's like 
looking at everything and then kind of 
giving me feedback on on what's going on 
and then she's you know she finally gets 
to Rudy and she's like who's this and I 
explain and she's like you guys are just 
messaging all the time like yeah well 
you got to get this going I'm like what 
do you mean she's like you can't be pen 
pals forever 
and I'm like I'm not gonna I'm not gonna 
start things you know just ask if he can 
go on video I'm the one we have to ask 
yeah yeah so she goes in there and she 
actually types it in for me with my 
permission I'm like she like types it 
and she's like can I press on I'm like 
go ahead go Eileen no Eileen this is 
what we do ladies and gentlemen we're in 
there we're in the weeds looking at your 
profiles sending those messages with 
your permission and then she hit send 
and there's no recovering from that 
yeah I I did not have the guts to do it 
so she kind of did it for me and he 
responded right away and said yes I'm 
like oh okay 
and then 
um so so that's how it started that's 
how it started and 
um we we had a first date tell us about 
the first date everybody wants to know 
now that he's been a fan of your book 
you guys you're an English teacher he's 
winning your heart with Hemingway what 
was that first date like 
it was nice it was a lunch uh at a 
restaurant in uh Oakbrook mall we 
decided it was kind of halfway between 
the two of us 
and you know we're all messed up still 
and 
um he walks in with a little uh a single 
rose oh and I'm like um like The 
Bachelor 
like so anyway we 
um hit it off we had a lot to talk about 
but you know you have this uh idea of 
the funnel and dating a lot of people at 
the same time 
I guess I and you know 
in all our conversations I was already 
prepped with what I want in a man so I 
already like and he asked like first 
date 
guess what do you want in Amanda and I'm 
like okay this is kind of it is a little 
bit of an interview 
and 
um so I told him exactly what I want you 
know uh Catholic 
um you know financially secure fun you 
know I had a list of things kind 
supportive a cheerleader all of your 
elevator qualities 
yeah and and I even said 
um 
you know I'm looking for long-term 
relationship eventually marriage in a 
Catholic Church you know I'm starting my 
annulment and this is what I want and I 
could tell he was like 
a little um 
taken aback you know he's like oh 
and I'm like okay well he asked I said 
you know and I'm like okay well we'll 
see what happens he asked me out again 
and then uh the second date he already 
declared himself 
like he wanted to like go exclusive and 
you know you still have a lot of nice 
things and this was already a dinner 
date and we're already like drinking a 
little and 
um 
and I'm like because of all my training 
with you I'm like oh no we can't go 
exclusive it's only the second day do 
y'all hear that say for the people in 
the back we can't go exclusive it's only 
the second date and Sylvia can you say 
inject what he does for work in general 
because I find it very interesting 
wow look at that so he's done his due 
diligence he knows what he wants he 
strolls in he says all right Sylvia I 
got this I want to be exclusive and 
Sylvia is trained and says 
I have to wait you know I just started I 
think the second date is too soon you're 
gonna have to be patient with me and 
then I said you know I'm not gonna get 
intimate with anyone until 15 days 
hahaha what Sylvia okay for those of you 
who have not worked with us okay we have 
graphs we have processes Sylvia's like 
telling you this is what we say like no 
sex until the 15th date right because 
there's no substitute in the dating 
process for time and when we have sex 
too early we're emitting oxytocin which 
is the attachment hormone which clouds 
our vision which makes us ignore red 
flags so I'm so proud of you for putting 
that out there on the second date saying 
okay this ain't going there until 15 
dates dude 
yeah and I and you know all the books I 
read also recommend that so it's so it's 
not just you out of the blue like like 
this is like backed by a lot of research 
and a lot of men even say that they 
respect the women for this 
um so anyway I'm like again and I liked 
it because I thought okay well this will 
be a good test and we'll see and I'll 
see how he reacts to this and I was also 
assuring him that yes I'm going to 
continue dating but I'm not gonna like 
be it like in that sense it relieved him 
that I wasn't going to be sleeping with 
other guys I think uh while I'm dating 
until I make up my mind and how do you 
react how did he react to this bombshell 
he was taken aback you know because of 
his profession and you know he's a very 
good looking man he's used to women 
going after him 
you know and kind of jumping him and and 
I'm like 
not 
and I mean I was interested but I was 
gonna do that I mean I couldn't even 
like ask him to get on video with me 
without your help so 
you're like I am not going to I'm not 
doing any of this so that's so that's 
awesome so all right so he's good he's 
in the game he's not he didn't walk out 
he didn't push his chair up and he just 
said okay I'll wait 
yeah and I you know before I started all 
this like I was telling my girlfriends 
kind of my philosophy and what I'm 
thinking and I'm saying you know they're 
telling me I'm supposed to wait 15 dates 
and all my girlfriends are like 15 dates 
are you kidding me no there's no way no 
man's gonna wait 15 days 
two or three three three tops but it's 
all that's all but no way you're crazy 
and I'm like I don't know that's what 
all the experts are saying I haven't 
done this in 37 years you know I think 
I'm gonna see what happens and like no 
it's not gonna work it's not gonna work 
and and so 
so anyway 
um he asked me out for the third date 
and uh we we it was like December now 
and we went to see the uh Christmas 
trees at the Museum of Science and 
Industry which was really a cute date 
there's a lot of walking and a lot of 
talking and we're getting to know each 
other and we have coffee and we're 
talking some more 
and 
um 
I guess 
um and then he asked me you know then he 
asked for the fourth day we saw Messiah 
uh 
he's picking some really good things oh 
my gosh he's planning these dates and 
you guys she has uh leveled her truth 
already I want to get married I want to 
get married in a Catholic Church I'm not 
going to sleep with you for 15 dates and 
this man is now planning the fourth date 
at the Messiah so what happens there at 
Orchestra Hall 
well we're walking we went to Berghoff's 
for uh dinner and then we're walking and 
he holds my hand the first this is like 
the first time he's touching me and he's 
holding my hand 
and I'm like to me you know for a woman 
for a man to hold her I think it's a big 
deal oh yeah it's super important I'm 
like already like seeing what this is 
like and he's wearing a glove like 
what and 
um and I wasn't and and he like barely 
like held my hand like it was like 
really like like my grant like I told 
him later like you held my hand when my 
grandmother would hold my hand and I'm 
very dainty very dainty and I didn't I 
it wasn't strong enough and I'm like 
afterwards like this was bothering me 
like I was kind of like making a big 
mountain out of a molehill over how how 
weekly uh he held my hand and I'm like I 
don't know if I'm gonna get into this 
man uh if this is how he's gonna hold my 
hand and then he asked me out to go on 
out on a Thursday the next Thursday and 
I already canceled because I'm like 
worried you know about this hand holding 
hahaha 
enter Eileen Collins what does Eileen 
say to you you're canceling the date 
because you thought he was a dainty hand 
holder this former federal agent okay 
suspend all disbelief here ladies and 
gentlemen 
so she's like you should give him 
another chance 
and I mean I was going to I just I was 
about to go on a on a two-week trip to 
Florida to visit a friend who had been 
asking me to visit her for five years 
and I always said no and now that I'm 
available and it's sabbatical and 
all that so I went to Florida and was 
there for a couple weeks 
and I was texting with Rudy and I'm 
thinking about it and thinking about it 
and finally I'm like let's plan the next 
you know can you plan the next date 
and then comes the fifth date when I'm 
back from Florida and this was kind of 
the where everything turned for me 
finally and uh it was a really cute date 
it was uh a cooking date where you're 
like cooking your dinner 
um it was in Glen Ellen and 
um it was a lot of fun and then 
afterwards we went to a bar and I just 
told them I said Rudy I really like you 
but 
um I'm worried about how you're holding 
my hands 
and you laid it out there you're a 
dainty hand holder Rudy and I'm a little 
I'm a little flummoxed with this right 
now 
and I said I'm like how could you have 
been a federal agent you know uh against 
criminals you hold my hand like my 
grandmother so anyway he was laughing 
and 
um and then he he held my hand and then 
he's like squeezing harder and he's like 
this I'm like harder like this no harder 
like this I'm like yeah now that's good 
he's like I was he said he was kind of 
scared and intimidated by me and that's 
why so so he was being respectful 
he was being respectful because you came 
in and said listen you know not all of 
our clients do this but Sylvia's very 
bold and brave as we know and she puts 
it out there right she put her family 
history out there she put it out there 
on the date about the 15 dates so he was 
a little scared of scaring her off and 
being too forward so he did the dainty 
hand hold and then when she's like yeah 
no that's freaking me out a little bit 
he didn't freak out and say listen 
you're bipolar or whatever like today 
you say this yesterday it's 15 dates 
what do you want me to do instead he's 
like how would you like me to do it and 
then what happens 
well and then he said you know uh I said 
I think I said 
we somehow the 15 day thing came up and 
he's like you know I'll wait forever I 
don't care how long it takes I'll wait 
forever and he's like Goosebumps 
and then he's like it's 15 months right 
and you're like no 15 days I'm not 
waiting 15 months but do you hear that a 
man that wants to be with you will move 
mountains to be with you he will wait 
for you an alpha high voltage male when 
he sees what he wants he will play the 
game by your rules as well so you said 
15 dates this man was ready to wait 15 
months 
I know I burst out laughing I'm like no 
it's just 15 days oh my God like two or 
three months oh my gosh and then what 
happened on the sixth date 
on the sixth date over like oh so wait I 
had you know I was taking notes and now 
I can't remember I can tell you it has 
to do with the Dozen Roses yes he 
brought a dozen roses 
I got a dozen roses 
and I I was floored 
um and then after that I canceled all 
other dates after that I was becoming 
exclusive even though uh you know we 
weren't because it wasn't 15 dates yet 
right we weren't sleeping together so we 
let we let Eileen was very adeptly 
handling the Sylvia Rudy situation and 
said okay you don't have to date other 
people because remember Eileen liked all 
of this from the get-go even with the 
dainty hand holding she's like yeah no 
no no no no we're gonna do this we're 
gonna take it to the video date okay so 
so now you are dating him you're not 
dating anybody else at this point and 
now you're going on dates ten dates 11 
what happens 
well um you know our feelings are you 
know what I liked about this 15 date 
rule is that your feelings really get uh 
D even without jumping in yeah uh and I 
and I really like that and he liked that 
too we started talking about that uh 
about how special everything was feeling 
because of that and I and I really liked 
that whole thing and and he did too 
um and you know he's like oh I would 
wait a hundred dates you know if I had 
to oh my God every time you say that the 
hair on my arm stands up with goosebumps 
if you guys could see Sylvia's face 
she's got this big smile I can see her 
on Zoom right now as we're recording so 
um and and now tell us about what 
happened before the 15th date on the 
13th date he 
well the 11th date this is important to 
me on the 11th day we went to mass 
together so already he's going to mass 
with me and he said he was Catholic but 
you know there's Catholics and there's 
Catholics and and I was kind of like 
does he know what to say does he know 
what to do does he don't understand and 
kneel and all that and he did something 
oh okay he you know he knows what he's 
doing 
um and then by the 13th date he said I 
love you 
oh my God lucky 13. I love you right and 
how did you feel were you expecting this 
no I mean I was feeling it and I kind of 
I felt that he felt it but I think he 
would say it and uh he said it and then 
of course I said it back and 
um it was a very special moment and then 
on the 14th day just to clarify he said 
I'm in love with you oh and uh oh God 
who else is melting right now 
so it was very beautiful it was a very 
very beautiful experience 
um and I really recommend it uh to wait 
the 15 days 
um it worked out really well and but you 
know then came the 15th day and I don't 
know if you saw Mamma Mia where she goes 
dot dot dot dot dot 
so you all know what happened we did the 
15 days and then we might have spent the 
weekend together 
yeah and it was very wonderful 
um and then things just deepened from 
there on and uh I don't know you know 
we've gone on three trips connected to 
my book already we've got three more 
planned connected to my book already he 
wants to go on all of them and 
supportive he wants you to be successful 
he loves what you're doing how amazing 
is that it's very wonderful it's very 
wonderful so so it's been great you know 
um I I know that I couldn't have done 
all this without your help I don't think 
I could have 
um not in the same way I wouldn't have 
had the same mindset I wouldn't have all 
the structure but 
um it worked like a term it worked well 
oh my gosh and now you guys have been 
together for five months huh 
yeah it's five months and you know I 
have this thing about counting hours 
together uh I read this study where uh 
it came out of Kentucky that said 
um to become really really good friends 
you need to spend at least 200 hours 
together face to face 
like in person and I said and I said 
this to Rudy on the second date and he's 
like oh you know when he already 
declared himself I told him this 200 
hour thing and he's like oh so I guess 
we've only been together for two hours 
I'm like 
yeah 198 more to go 
oh and that and now you've passed a 
thousand hours together yes now it's 
over a thousand hours yes oh my gosh 
amazing Sylvia Your Love Story it 
inspires us and we do this every day but 
the fact that you adhered to the rules 
you did this you took a leap Sylvia post 
divorce May 2021 the first thing you did 
was get help and educate yourself and 
you didn't mess around with doing this 
without guard rails because what happens 
to most people is we end up doing the 
same thing all over again and that's why 
those divorce statistics suck right if 
40 to 50 percent of first marriages end 
in divorce the data show that 67 of 
second marriages and 74 of third 
marriages so kudos to you for knowing 
yourself for doing your homework for 
finding the right home for you and I'm 
so delighted that your home was our home 
at Smart dating Academy and we're I just 
can't wait for your wedding 
you know I'm crashing it 
I'll let you know I mean nothing we both 
have to go through annulments and all 
that so 
um we'll see oh my gosh and how has your 
life you know your love is wonderful you 
have a supportive amazing partner who's 
traveling the world with you talking 
about your book and you know I promise 
we would Circle back a little bit 
because it's such a bombshell with 
regards to what you went through and I 
know you've been through as you thought 
your grandfather in your life was X and 
just like you said taking 10 years and 
you had to go through all those stages 
of grief and you would already grieved 
you've had so much grief you've lost a 
child which no one should you your 
marriage ended you found out something 
about your family that must have been I 
can't even imagine what that moment was 
like where it's like everything must 
have just Frozen for you 
yeah it was nuts I mean you know those 
uh five stage pages of a loss when you 
lose someone I went through 
um 
several times already but with with the 
book 
you know it was uh denial and depression 
and 
um bargaining I was at a point you know 
the bargaining one was really 
interesting because 
um I would bargain with God saying 
um I'm gonna work on this and look into 
my grandfather's Nazi uh 
um collaboration if there is such a 
thing but I really want to exonerate him 
I'll I'll look into the whole Nazi era 
on Lithuania if I can exonerate my 
grandfather deal is that a deal okay I'm 
gonna do that and of course I jump in 
and look and all I find out is more and 
more horrible information about my 
grandfather until I finally had to 
accept it and then uh then I hit anger 
and the anger fueled me to finally 
finish the writing and then and then I 
find the book 
um 
came out in 21 March 21. and now the 
paperback's coming out with the new 
title storm in the land of rain this 
June June 7th is coming out oh my gosh 
and we'll put a link to Sylvia's books 
and Sylvia tell us the title 
the hardback now is the Nazi's 
granddaughter how he discovered my 
grandfather's a war criminal oh my gosh 
how incredibly Brave courageous you are 
and you have been through hell's that no 
human should be and I am 
like I said just all the blood in my 
body is swirling I'm so happy for your 
happy endings I'm happy for your love 
with this amazing man Rudy I know if 
you're going to be married in a 
beautiful Catholic wedding in a 
beautiful Catholic Church I'm putting it 
out there God are you listening to me 
and and I know your book is going to be 
incredibly successful so ladies and 
gentlemen if Sylvia's inspired you feel 
free to help to help a sister out buy 
that book support her listen to her 
interviews and I hope I want to thank 
you Sylvia for telling us your story and 
I want you guys to know we're going to 
chant you 15 dates 15 days and there is 
a reason for this when you follow a 
process and if you need guard rails 
around you contact somebody get a 
therapist get a coach Sylvia went to a 
divorce support group at Old Saint Pat's 
church and at the end of that they said 
you need to talk to Smart dating Academy 
and she's like okay in addition to the 
100 dating books I've read I will go and 
file in Smart dating Academy so find the 
thing that you need and go do that 
because the definition of insanity is 
doing the same thing over and over again 
and expecting different results so to 
you my Brave bold you know friend in 
great love and this next 40 to 50 years 
of your life is going to be filled with 
all of the glitter and Sparkle that you 
deserve thank you so much for coming on 
and for inspiring me and for sharing 
your truths with us we're grateful 
thanks Bella it's been wonderful talking 
to you 


if you figure out your inner 
relationship with someone avoidant what 
do you do I think being honest pretty 
early on about what you need and what 
you want like I want a committed 
relationship I want a monogamous 
relationship I am looking to get married 
or not get married being honest about 
what your goals are for dating right out 
of the beginning because if you get with 
someone who's not really wanting that 
and you're pretty clear about what you 
want from the beginning you're 
more dates after that so being honest 
with yourself about what you want and 
verbalizing that we'll mitigate that a 
little bit but if you find yourself kind 
of in this relationship and this 
person's just not showing up for you and 
is a constant source of pain it may be 
time to consider being honest with this 
person about why you don't think it's a 
good match 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back and as always you know I'm 
just excited about life in general but 
I'm really excited today to have not 
just an amazing expert but amazing human 
being who happens to also be a friend of 
mine probably for almost a decade 
at this point ladies and gentlemen I am 
so happy to present to you my friend 
Rachel dealto Rachel welcome hello love 
it really has been it's got to be at 
least a decade it's crazy it's insane 
and I know I think you and I met because 
I was on your podcast yes way back in 
the day like Rachel's so cool everyone 
that Rachel is doing a podcast before it 
was like a thing okay and then I quit 
before it became a thing I was like this 
is a lot of work and now I see everybody 
doing it I was like I probably should do 
one but I know how much work it is 
that's why I stopped girl yes you're 
just you're always ahead of the curve so 
for those of you who don't know Rachel 
dealto you should she is an amazing 
author she's prolific she's a 
relationship expert she's a coach she's 
a recovering attorney and mediator I 
think you have like 10 degrees I don't 
don't even know what they all are she's 
been on TV we've been on TV together 
we've both worked with match.com this is 
why I just love this human being because 
she's as beautiful inside as she is on 
the outside and today she is going to 
tell us about 
relatability what is relatability and 
how we can 
all become better humans make more 
friends and be better on 
dates I'm ready oh my god Ra tell us 
what what does it mean the title of your 
book is relatable tell us about what is 
relatability yeah so it's an interesting 
thing and obviously there's dictionary 
definitions and there's there's a lot of 
ways that we can Define it but for me it 
came from I I was on Married at First 
Sight I left and I was getting all these 
messages from the audience members 
saying you were the most relatable 
expert I thought what the heck does that 
mean you know I I get what it could mean 
you know by the dictionary but what does 
that mean what are they feeling why are 
they feeling connected to me and that's 
really what it was it was this this it 
was bigger than likability it was bigger 
than just likable because I think you 
can like a lot of people right we like a 
lot of people but that doesn't mean I 
want to invest my energy into you and 
that's where I felt like the 
differentiation came between likable and 
relatable was relatable is like wow I 
really want to connect to you I want to 
I want to be a part of your world I want 
to invest my energy into you and that's 
where I really start to differentiate 
the two and is relatability I love how 
you're differentiating that is it is it 
I feel like you're like me is that what 
it is kind of also yeah and it's it's I 
can understand you like I get you and I 
can I can I can dive into who you are uh 
and and you're not hiding who you are so 
I can see you so it's really it doesn't 
have to be the same people we could have 
people being very relatable who are very 
different uh so it's not that you're 
seeing yourself in the other person 
necessarily is I see who this person is 
okay got it so that's really so the 
difference between likeability that's 
like a positive person yeah like oh my 
gosh that person's just warm and 
friendly and D but relatable is I feel a 
connection to you yes okay that's great 
and it's great to like people you think 
oh I like you I don't know if I want to 
connect with you but I like you you're 
great you're life of the party but if 
you're relatable I want to get to know 
you yeah there's a deeper deeper 
connection there wow so relevant 
everywhere in life relevant in the 
aspects of life that I think we all 
crave more of if we're being honest with 
ourselves who doesn't 
want richer friendships and maybe more 
more friendships at the end of the day 
better relationships with everybody 
around you right and maybe better dates 
as well what do you have I think that 
that this applies to all of those things 
and and it's so true in terms of 
friendship you know that's something 
it's it's something that comes up 
oftentimes I do Tik Tok even though I am 
not 20 years old uh but I started doing 
it and realized there was this whole 
audience on there that was craving 
content and information and so I started 
doing these Tik toks on friendship and 
they would blow up and the most 
heartbreaking responses were I don't 
have any friends I don't have any 
friends I don't know how to make friends 
all these adults were saying that they 
had no friends or they didn't have good 
friends and it was just it was such a 
wakeup call to me that I realize there 
are so many adults out there you know 
it's very easy when you're a child 
you're in school or you're at the recess 
or you're playing sports and and whatnot 
but then we get to this stage where 
we're working and maybe we have a family 
and maybe we have have a partner but we 
don't have friendships and I can't 
imagine my life without my friendships 
but I recognize that there's so many 
people out there that don't have that 
and I do believe you know we blame a lot 
on social media we blame a lot on 
society in terms of our loneliness but I 
do think that the lack of friendship is 
a massive problem there's one in four 
people in the United States have zero 
friends so I I just I every time I think 
about that statistic I get a little bit 
sad and gave Goosebumps yeah it's 
heartbreaking cuz it was one in I think 
1 in 10 uh 20 years ago so we're going 
in the wrong direction and and so 
relatability connection is connecting to 
friends but yes also as you know daters 
we we have to date better you know we 
all want this companionship but we have 
to put ourselves out there in a 
different way so that we're actually 
seeing people and and showing people who 
we are so that they can actually love 
you no and that's so right and I know in 
your book relatable which is great and 
I'll put a link to it in the show notes 
um you cite the Harvard Grant study 
which was the longest longitudinal study 
on what makes men happy of course it 
started in 1938 so they only looked at 
men in the cohort but Pasha but the the 
spoiler alert to that is that what made 
these men happiest over 75 years was the 
quality and the depth of their 
relationships with other people and this 
was dudes you guys okay now for women we 
like yeah right but to hear from you 
that one in four humans in this country 
now as opposed to one in 10 so 25% 
versus 10 say that they have no friends 
Rachel how do we make friends at any age 
like tell us about this that's so 
disturbing to me and sad and I think 
it's something that gives so many people 
so much fear we've all been ghosted by a 
friend and it's almost as pain 
as having our hearts broken by a 
romantic other but if if there's you 
know for the listener that's listening 
to this and going yeah I used to have a 
lot of friends and maybe now I have two 
or I've never really had friends or I 
would just like to make new friends tell 
us how we can do that yeah well first I 
have to say all it takes is one so most 
of the research shows that as long as 
you have one good connection you are 
protected from a lot of the things that 
can be very detrimental when you don't 
have friendship 
uh so if you have just what it's okay we 
don't want to cling too tightly to them 
but it's good to have at least one solid 
friendship but I do believe that when 
we're looking at creating more 
friendships we have to look internal and 
external so there's internal and 
external activities the easy part is the 
external right and we talk about this 
all the time go to the places where you 
enjoy doing things you know whether it's 
if it's going to the gym then do classes 
don't do you know don't sit on the 
treadmill with your your airpods in go 
to a class somewhere where you're 
actually talking to people who have a 
similar interest in you it's very 
similar to finding dates in in the wild 
I don't know who that person is on their 
treadmill that can run and talk to 
another if that's you I'm really jealous 
because I am Huffing and puffing like a 
dog yeah I can't even go on the 
treadmill so the fun story I actually 
can't run in a straight line like on a 
treadmill I physically can't do it so 
why does that not totally surprise me 
I'm like SP it's it's so bad so I I fall 
off treadmills um so you're better than 
me that you're even on the 
treadmill but anyway so yes if if you 
are enjoying the gym if you really enjoy 
you know learning a language or going 
back to school or cooking or whatever it 
is that has more than one person in that 
that space go do those things to try to 
meet those people you can meet people 
online but obviously we want those in 
Real Life Connections are so much more 
important to our our psyche and and to 
our health so we want to be able to have 
the online offline component um but you 
can start online you can go to your you 
know local groups that that have some 
sort of activities outside of Facebook 
or I don't think Meetup is Meetup still 
a thing are people still on meet still a 
thing okay so if you're on Meetup you 
know there's just there's so many 
different opportunities and it really 
could be a simple approach to it where 
you're just setting the intention of 
wherever I go and whatever I'm doing in 
my life I'm open to meeting new people 
so really setting that mindset but then 
the internal side is so important too of 
when you do meet those people how are 
you presenting yourself and that's 
really where relatable comes in it's you 
know I try to bring it through this 
blueprint of of connect communicate 
Inspire and really showing up you know 
the short version of this um where 
obviously we can't get into all of it 
but connect is is showing up as you and 
that means like all the versions of you 
you know authenticity I think is this 
buzz word 
but when people say like just be 
yourself and I'm like I have 17 versions 
of who I am you know I have the person 
who's talking right now who isn't 
cursing I have the person who if you 
grab a beer with me oh my gosh the F 
bombs that come out uh you know I have 
the the buttoned up version I have the 
laid-back version you like there's all 
different versions of ourselves but 
whoever you bring to the table make sure 
that those are versions of you that are 
real uh and then going into communicate 
and Inspire there's there's different 
elements of just how you communicate 
like communicate in a way that the 
people feel important you know and and 
that's I think such a big part of when 
we meet someone new whether it's a 
friend or a date showing up in a way 
that I'm focused on making this a great 
experience for myself obviously we want 
you to have a good time and I want you 
to be a part of the conversation but how 
am I showing up to make other people 
feel like they're special you know how 
do I CU that's all people want they just 
want to feel like they're important to 
you and so often we meet people and then 
we railroad the conversation kind of 
like I'm doing right now uh no you're 
not we want to hear all of it from you 
my friends I have this internal clock 
where I'm like Rachel you've talked 
enough please stop 
talking not that's because you're so 
relatable I just want like I want people 
to know that there's entry points of 
conversation but so often we see this on 
bad First Dates we see this on bad 
meetings with with potential friends 
they just get railroaded in this 
conversation then they they don't feel 
like they mattered in it so then why do 
they want to continue talking to this 
person so it's the communicate obviously 
has a lot of different facets to it but 
it really is about just being aware of 
how you show up in communication in a 
way that allows people to feel like they 
matter so tell me about this and 
sometimes I feel like it's a dichotomy 
myself like we're supposed to show up 
authentically but then we're supposed to 
be positive like help me reconcile this 
like if I'm having a crappy [ __ ] day for 
example and I'm going to an event and 
there's all these versions of myself 
like you said there's 17 versions of me 
I can be the wine drinking F drop bomb 
dropping person I can be I can look like 
the weather girl straight off of a 
segment like we can all play all these 
different roles how like is there 
something we should be doing 
consistently to better connect with 
people and do we need to change our 
authenticity like help us here Rachel 
well I would say if you're having a bad 
day like your bad day is not your 
personality so this isn't who you are 
showing up as authentic is is showing up 
as your authentic personality and not 
necessarily your mood so they're they're 
very different personality and mood so I 
would say let's try to change the mood 
you know mood is mindset to me and mood 
can be shifted and if it can't be 
shifted then maybe you don't go to that 
event maybe you you postpone that first 
date until you feel better the next day 
you know I think people showing up as as 
their best self it means you know you're 
in the best possible mindset uh but 
you're still showing up as you and so 
that's where it's that that's where I 
think that dichotomy kind of merges 
because you can still and and maybe you 
have to go to something you can be like 
you can be honest about it and maybe it 
becomes part of the the conversation of 
like I'm just it's been a rough one like 
how are you doing instead of lying and 
saying oh my God I'm great everything's 
great right right cuz you feel that when 
people aren't being actually real in 
those conversations it doesn't mean that 
we show up places again it's like I want 
I want people to to do things and and 
push themselves outside of their comfort 
zone and maybe try to shift their 
mindset but if it's really a bad day I 
don't know sometimes it's better just 
take a minute yeah take a breather right 
we've all had those days okay so now 
let's change the scenario Bella put out 
like and I love that 
differentiation that your personality is 
not your mood a mood is transient it's 
like the weather it could be a stormy 
day five minutes later it could be sunny 
if you can take that weather system and 
change it but your personality is who 
you authentically are and who is that 
person and that's who you want to bring 
maybe not the F-bomb dropping part of 
you if it's you know kind of a 
networking event and you want to put 
your best foot forward but you know if 
you're at a Meetup Group where 
everyone's like come in and bring that 
version of yourself then bring that 
version of yourself exactly yeah I think 
there's there's a time and place and and 
that's where we have to allow for all 
those variations and yeah just 
remembering it mood is so that in 
Psychology they call it State and trait 
so state is I'm going through a state 
that would be my mood transient comes 
and goes sometimes sometimes those moods 
last for a while sometimes you know 
they're they're instantaneous and get 
adjusted by a puppy you know and then 
there's also our traits and some of our 
traits are immutable and and there are 
things that that you really need to lean 
into and that's part of it too is I 
think above El above all else is is 
really just identifying you know where 
am I uncomfortable with who I am where 
am I where are my my traits problematic 
for me and when can I into them to 
really Embrace who I am you know there's 
certain things that that make you you 
and that's okay I I have learned uh and 
as my fiance has learned in the last 
couple months as we've renovated our 
house I'm a control freak and I am a 
perfectionist the only area in my life 
that I'm actually a perfectionist is 
with design of of my house like I don't 
care and I have taken complete control 
and he's realized that this is who I am 
and I'm like this is who I am I'm not 
going to pretend I'm not going to 
pretend to like that I'm not going to 
pretend to be easygoing in this case 
because I am easygoing in every other 
situation not here okay not now not now 
did you just learned this about yourself 
or this is something you knew well it's 
in you know every relationship is 
different and it's the first time that I 
had somebody who actually cared about 
you know what was brought into the house 
and I've always kind of just done it and 
it didn't matter and he cares but we 
have agreed on stuff and there's certain 
things that we've disagreed on and you 
know we've come to like a stal me and 
it's like okay then we choose something 
else but 
yeah I didn't realize how intense I was 
about it like I'm telling you Bella it 
goes from like zero to six I was like no 
no like I hate that like how could you 
love that I renovated we got at our 
house together after having been married 
for 20 years I'll tell you what if you 
can gut a house together and renovate 
together you can probably stand the test 
of time yeah that's what we're literally 
like we're in the final touches like 
things are finally getting delivered and 
whatnot and we're done next week and I'm 
like if we just did that we good we're 
good oh my God I love that so um well 
tell me if you could give us some re 
just you know let's say now we've got a 
good personality we're in a good state 
right and we're just feeling a little 
anxious and maybe and one one point I 
love in your book is when you are kind 
of you have to dig in like you just said 
to figure out what parts of me do I not 
like what am I afraid of am I afraid my 
friends are going to abandon me because 
it started in fifth grade and it would 
happen every three years like someone 
would would finally decide I'm annoying 
or whatever it is it's like and dig in 
and figure out what you're afraid of and 
then work to resolve that or how do you 
get over that I know you talk about that 
in the book yeah and so there's a lot of 
things that come into play here and 
social anxiety is an enormous challenge 
for so many and it's another growing uh 
anxiety disorder in our world right now 
and I wouldn't even classify it just to 
the United States and so it's really 
understanding like there there are 
people out there and social anxiety is 
an actual diagnosable condition where 
you are so anxious to engage socially 
that you you avoid it and then when you 
do it you actually sit there thinking 
about all the things you did wrong that 
is like stereotypical they come back and 
they're just like I did this wrong they 
must hate me and it becomes this spiral 
of thoughts so it's it's understanding 
that exists and so if you have those 
feelings those are things that you can 
absolutely become aware of and start to 
work through but a lot of us just have 
regular little baggage you know we have 
all these things that we went through 
and these challenges that we've we've uh 
have overcome or working to overcome and 
you know the biggest thing that I've 
seen is that awareness component oent 
because a lot of times we we avoid you 
know a lot of times we don't look at it 
we feel that feeling but we kind of push 
it down or we just ignore it and we 
don't really recognize what's causing it 
if we don't look at it and we don't 
recognize what's causing it then we 
can't actually realize what's the 
underlying problem to heal it and as I 
quoted Jay-Z in the book you can't heal 
what you don't reveal and so we have to 
shine a light on it and that's where 
it's really digging into those things 
and you know it's a challenge 
that we all go through and and even the 
people who feel like they have it all 
together you know I had massive 
abandonment issues massive from my 
childhood I tell a story you know in the 
beginning of the book where I had no 
friends um all my friends ditched me cuz 
I was kind of this overweight nerdy girl 
know- it- all complete know it- all so 
apparently I had some you know issues 
back then control issues control issues 
back then so um you know I thank God 
they've they've dissipated in a lot of 
areas except for the the home decor 
um but I had like all of these things 
from child like my little inner child 
was wounded and so we have to look at 
that and we have to be willing to say 
there are decisions I'm making now there 
are responses I'm having now that are 
triggered by things that I don't even 
remember until I actually look at it and 
so so much healing can happen through 
that awareness and sometimes it's just 
being aware like oh wow that's why I'm 
doing that and now I can start to shift 
it and sometimes it actually takes a 
professional to sit down with and dig 
into and have those ahas and have those 
healings okay so I love that now let's 
say young Rachel de Alto is now a 
35-year-old female and it's like oh my 
God I so relate to this episode and I 
was that nerdy you know overweight no 
atall smart kid that had was not 
athletic and really prided myself I got 
myself self esteem for my knowledge but 
it became a repellent for people and now 
I'm 35 how do I how do I make friends 
like how can you give me some tips on 
how I can do that now that I know what 
it is I've done my dive I'm like oh 
that's where it came from now what well 
it's it's understanding like there's a 
reason you feel like that there's a 
reason that you're approaching 
situations in this way and and honestly 
sometimes it's just being aware that 
that 35-year-old Rachel could say holy 
crap like that's that's how I'm showing 
up like I can start to change because 
the thing is when we start to look at 
things and we become aware of past 
conditions that are causing current 
problems we are now able to shift our 
behaviors and your brain will do this 
for you because you are aware of it 
you're now going to pay attention to 
what's in front of you and pay attention 
to how you show up differently and I I 
liken this too I I tell this story often 
where you know I love Marshalls I think 
Marshalls and TJ Maxx are like super fun 
you never know you walk in there you 
think you need some shampoo you walk out 
with like a couch and a fake tree and 
some T-shirts but the problem is is I 
also get massive anxiety when I go in 
there because everything is out of order 
right there's nothing is it's like you 
know all the shirts are mixed together 
we got stuff over here everything's in 
all these different places but if I go 
into a TJ Maxx or Marshalls and I say 
I'm looking for a blue shirt all of a 
sudden all I see are the blue shirts 
because that's what I'm paying attention 
to and that's what I'm focusing on and 
allows me to to you know distract from 
all of the other elements and really 
focus on what's in front of me and it's 
the same thing that our brain does same 
thing when we buy a car you buy a new 
car all of a sudden hey I never realized 
there was a million white Jeeps on the 
road guess what there's not there's the 
same number as there was yesterday your 
brain is just focusing on an intention 
and that's why intentions are so 
powerful so go into these situations now 
aware of how you talk of how you connect 
of of how maybe you were clinging before 
maybe you were overdoing it maybe you 
were the opposite maybe were you're 
pushing people away so all of a sudden 
because you're aware that this is a 
possible tendency your brain now shows 
it to you literally on a platter and 
says like hey 
human like maybe we could do that a 
little 
differently I love that and and in 
addition to that you talk aot lot about 
the power of positivity tell us about 
this yes and this is very different than 
toxic positivity which is a massive 
problem in this world where people are 
like no no no everything happens for a 
reason everything's great like no no no 
this is this is good and we do that to 
other people right oh my gosh we do it 
to our we do it to ourselves like we do 
it to everybody yeah oh you know it's 
you know having had a miscarriage I 
remember when people would say back in 
the day well at least your fertile or at 
least you already have a daughter right 
and so you're like um that that didn't 
feel good I don't know what could feel 
good but that didn't I don't want you to 
Brightside me I don't need bright side 
me yes yes and and so when we talk about 
positivity that's not the the the level 
or the direction that we're talking 
about but in general positivity actually 
is shown to have health benefits it's 
good for your heart it's good for your 
mind it's good for your happiness in 
terms of how you connect with people and 
so when I talk about positivity it's 
let's start to get ourself into a place 
where we are able to have hope and we 
are able to be happier because that is 
actually going to help you show up one 
because positive people have a bigger a 
more positive uh impression of who they 
are and of their lives so that allows 
them to show up more authentically and 
naturally themselves because they're 
okay with themselves um so a lot of the 
things that I talk about with positivity 
is really assessing kind of where you're 
at and then how can we shift you to get 
better positive thinking better positive 
environments you know that's a huge 
thing too where we are a combination of 
the people that we spend time with uh 
there was the so people often quote the 
you know you're the combination of the 
five people that you spend the most time 
with totally which is kind of BS and 
kind of true so that quote was actually 
from like a motivational speaker who had 
the right idea but we've never studied 
the five people that we surround 
ourselves with but we have studied MRIs 
of two people who spend significant 
amount of time together and their brain 
waves started to match which is really 
freaky 
right like so let's you know let's just 
be aware of there's a lot of ways that 
we could change Who We Are are based on 
our environment based on the way we 
think based on the way that you know we 
process based on what we're aware of wow 
and I'm you know for those of you you 
can't see me right now but I've just 
opened up Rachel's book and on page 54 I 
love this so much there's something that 
she put in the book called the 
positivity scale right we all might 
think that we're positive okay but 
really how positive are we and it comes 
by doing a deep dive and do you mind if 
I read these literally out loud because 
I love this okay now what you're 
supposed to do and if you're interested 
in this I'll you know send me an email 
I'll send you Rachel's book whatever it 
is but listen to these it says take a 
look at these questions and jot down 
your answer which can range from one to 
five one is I strongly disagree and five 
is I strongly agree okay I have great 
faith in the future assess yourself I am 
satisfied with my life assess yourself 
others are generally here for me when I 
need them oof that's a biggie assess I 
look forward to the future with hope and 
enthusiasm do you really on the whole I 
am satisfied with myself gave me 
goosebumps i h i feel I have many things 
to be proud of and I generally feel 
confident in myself and it says for each 
response the closer you are to a five 
the more positive you are in that area 
fives across the board great you're 
freaking rainbows and unicorns good on 
you if you're not you're going to have 
to implement the next a couple steps 
that Rachel outlines in her book assess 
your environment and what's your next 
step I 
need after assess create awareness and 
spin so I love the fact that instead of 
saying just be positive here's an 
assessment to tell you really 
honestly how positive are you across 
these things and what that will help you 
to do guys is figure out where you might 
be more negative and projecting that 
negativity which again isn't what any of 
us want to do so after you do that 
assessment what do we do how do we get 
more positive in these areas and it's a 
positive to Rachel's point about feeling 
better and happier with yourself and 
most importantly being more attractive 
to others to friends and significant 
others and dates and dates yeah all of 
that it changes everything so yeah I I 
love the positivity scale because it's 
it's a psychological based you know they 
they've used this in in so much uh 
research and so many different studies 
so it's a something that is legitimized 
uh but it also shows you why have people 
do this first is really assess that 
scale and then do these activities and 
then show me how you changed show me how 
how everything has started to shift 
because I love some Roi uh but yeah 
after after they do this scale it's 
really about figuring out what is 
working within your environment who you 
know how are you working within your 
environment and what's working within 
yourself and what's not working so I I 
go on to have them really take a look at 
the people around them the environments 
that they put themselves in you know 
there's so many areas of our life that 
we can start to shift because even your 
home we were talking about home decor 
before if you're in a place where you 
know there's no light or you know you 
don't like what your your space looks 
like and obviously you know this is 
coming from a space of you everybody has 
certain levels of means and you not 
everybody can move but we could add a 
little bit of something to change even 
just the physical environment that we're 
in um but also the emotional environment 
that we're in who are we allowing in you 
know who is in that space who is 
affecting your brain MRI and how can we 
start to really assess those 
relationships and make sure that they're 
all serving us and then after that I I 
talk about the negativity Journal which 
is something where we become hyper hyper 
aware of the negative thoughts that we 
have um and I know people is another BS 
thing that people quote they're like 
there's 60,000 thoughts a day there's 
880,000 I don't know there's obviously a 
lot of thoughts period I don't like do 
you hear that all the time like one one 
person's like there are like any time 
that someone says something with 
conviction like that I was like you have 
no idea but there's a lot of thoughts 
and a lot of them are negative and so 
the more that we become aware of them 
the more that we track them the more 
that we can start to spin them to become 
a more positive person without becoming 
a toxically positive person you can 
still have bad days you can have you 
know times where you can't see the 
bright side and that's okay you know but 
it's really about what are the things 
that are changeable what is malleable 
and then work on that and then things 
start to really 
shift yeah absolutely and the negativity 
journal and Rachel alluded to that what 
that is and feel free to jump in here 
it's documenting guys like if you feel 
like take that little positivity 
assessment okay if you're like wof I'm 
ones across the board and that's okay I 
love self-awareness right because then 
the next step is how do we change that 
write down in a journal we talk all the 
time about gratitude journals writing 
down the things that we're great for and 
that's amazing and I love that and now 
what we also want you to do is catch 
yourself where you're super negative 
every negative thought that you have 
about yourself your environment or 
another person write it down and then 
what do we do once we write it down once 
you write it down you have to find the 
counter thought and write that down 
because every thought that you have has 
a counter thought so it could be and you 
know this the the typical for women is I 
hate my body or I don't like the way 
this looks or I don't like myself or I'm 
not worthy of love these are I mean 
actually that becomes more Universal but 
all of those can then shift to the 
positive version of it and sometimes you 
can't get from I hate my body to I love 
my body maybe it's I hate my body too I 
accept my body and I appreciate my body 
for what it does for me so there's a lot 
of middle ground because I I think the 
problem is when people say oh just think 
a different thought again it's like the 
xic positivity we were talking about 
earlier it's not possible you know our 
brain can't make the leap if we're so 
far down the negativity train that this 
is where we're at in that hate Zone we 
can't get to love you know it's it's 
it's too far away so find that middle 
ground and write that down and allow 
that to become part of your Mantra 
because the more again it I feel like a 
broken record sometimes with how much I 
talk about awareness but it really is 
awareness is everything once you start 
recognizing oh my gosh wow I thought 
that that that that and that like that's 
that's horrible let's stop thinking like 
that let's catch those thoughts and then 
create that spin so here's a scenario 
that comes up for me at Smart dating 
Academy with my clients let's say you 
know I've had people come in telling me 
okay I'm a four date wonder I'm great 
until the fourth date but then the 
bottom falls out for me like I can't get 
a fifth date now that's a negative 
thought right there how would you help 
that person to spin that thought to 
something positive like I nobody wants 
to date me past four dates the right 
person is going to want to date me on 
date five I love that yeah and then I 
want to find out what the hell is 
happening on those four 
days right enter dating coach like wait 
what's going on and what's going on very 
specific uh number of 
dates I've had everything as I'm sure 
you have happened in 13 years I don't 
know well every time I say man I've 
heard it all I've seen it all something 
new waxed me in the face on my desk that 
day like wait what I've never that 
before um so you know I think positivity 
authenticity these are all ways of 
becoming more relatable what are some 
other what are some key things that you 
would tell us that you might not have 
shared yet about how we can be more 
relatable you know I think that second 
section that communication part and 
inspiration is a whole other whole other 
story and and obviously an important 
part of it but the communication part is 
is such an important element of how we 
show up right now because you know part 
of what I say in in the book is how 
communication is energetic I know we can 
think of the right things to say you and 
I have both seen you know people who 
tell you know just write this or just 
say this on a date or like have these 
lines and it's not they don't work you 
know maybe maybe it's a filler space but 
you can't just memorize what to say it's 
how you say it it's how you show up and 
part of where I think a lot of 
disconnects happen is is we don't show 
up in a way and I we started talking 
about this earlier is that makes people 
feel important and we don't show up in a 
way that makes them feel our presence 
and lets them feel who we are and feel 
that we are invested in this person 
because instead we're distracted by 
everything else around us and that's a 
challenge that I've seen over and over 
again where you know I see cell phones 
out I see people you know together but 
apart because they're just sitting there 
texting and it's really I sound like a 
get off my lawn like I've gotten to that 
age of like a cell phones what are they 
doing with this this technology but it's 
so true because it's it's such an 
amazing part of our lives but it's also 
such an interference in our connections 
and so how often are we really really 
paying attention to each other how often 
are we really committed to I am here and 
I am present and I'm not letting my mind 
wander and I'm definitely not letting my 
thumbs wander to this beautiful 
Contraption yeah and that's hard and it 
requires a and if you start out a 
conversation like you're saying Rachel 
with my goal is to make the other person 
feel important right now and that's your 
singular goal that automatically kind of 
puts your brain in check ideally if 
you're truly invested in that goal and 
knowing that that is a really really 
really important goal here we're talking 
about you know succeeding on dates being 
more relatable hell let's throw in being 
more likable even if you're looking to 
make more friends that you're it sounds 
like making the person across from you 
feel important should be a your number 
one goal is is that right absolutely it 
should be one of I think there's a 
couple goals up there like showing up as 
yourself is a huge part of it but that 
really is such an enormous element of it 
is is really just being attuned to the 
person in front of you and caring enough 
to put the effort in because we don't 
and I get it too you I know you've heard 
this from daters but people get burnt 
out they're tired they're kind of like 
they show up and they're like here's 
another one let me just sit here and 
pray that it's you know not as Terri is 
the last one so they they're not there 
they're not invested the energy is not 
there and it shifts everything it shifts 
the way you show up it shifts everything 
you say and so if anything I just I want 
people to really identify how can they 
be more present and how can they set 
that intention to show up in a way that 
the people feel like they are important 
right and being positive at the same 
time yeah kind of say listen take 
Snippets like you don't have to because 
I think it becomes overwhelming you get 
you talk to someone who is you know 
maybe in a funky state has had a rough 
time of it you know not meeting a lot of 
friends not having great dates so I 
don't want them to think that they have 
to do everything at once because then it 
becomes it just you end up doing nothing 
it's that paralysis uh that comes with 
with so many other things that you could 
focus on so I think you know just focus 
on one thing at a time and then stack it 
stack it and eventually you'll get it 
all together yeah absolutely and in the 
dating role bra how do you how would you 
recommend 
and we want to be authentic right we 
want to be ourselves but then we have to 
walk that tight rope of oversharing as 
well right and this is and I know this 
is always the struggle in your work in 
my work it's like okay you know my ex 
cheated on me and therefore I'm back 
into the dating swamp land again or what 
and when we say be authentic and be 
positive you know I tell my clients 
have a good thing to say about your 
divorce even though it was sucky because 
people need to earn that part of your 
story right and that vulnerability 
without boundaries is just plain over 
sharing so I welcome your thoughts on 
here I completely agree I I I say the 
same thing is that not everybody 
deserves your story not everybody 
deserves all of your story and it comes 
with with intimacy and we're talking 
about emotional intimacy and that does 
not happen in the first couple dates you 
have to get to that place and eventually 
yeah you're going to share it all you 
know there's going to come a time in a 
in the right relationship where they 
know everything about you or whatever 
you know within reason sometimes you 
don't need to ever know everything about 
but it's just really tempering that of 
recognizing that there is a you're 
stepping into the pool you're not diving 
in and so share share for the connection 
if people ask you a question don't lie 
you know if they ask you specifically 
like did they did you get cheated on 
we're not saying like lie about it but 
it doesn't need to be that front and 
center you could have had the worst 
divorce in the world but it doesn't need 
to be front and center so it's really I 
think that tempering and recognizing 
that I do have and I can still show up 
as authentically me without just verbal 
diarrhea because that is not attractive 
to anybody absolutely and and you know 
corollary to that there are questions 
that people might ask you on a date that 
are inappropriate and you don't need to 
answer those questions if somebody ask 
you on Dat one well did you get cheated 
on you can say you know in every 
relationship there are complications and 
there's accountability on both sides so 
that's what I'll tell you about it so 
you can answer things in a way that's 
also comfortable for you right because 
you may not boundar boundaries are fine 
and you don't have to say no comment or 
I'm not going to answer that right 
because that's sort of like 
disconnecting any connection yeah and 
maybe if they're asking really 
inappropriate questions you want to 
disconnect and find a new date right 
you're like oh my God my cake is burning 
I gotta go my cat just jumped down to a 
power line I can't believe it I'm so 
sorry this has been amazing 
gota split I'll call you don't call me 
oh my gosh and you know this is one 
question that I've really wanted to ask 
you how do you if someone feels like and 
you mentioned social anxiety and how 
many of us have social anxiety at this 
point but if we feel like you know I'm 
just kind of socially awkward like how 
can someone can someone overcome that 
and if so 
how yeah yes and so one you know 
sometimes the social awkwardness comes 
from a a personality trait and so those 
are not always you know mutable so 
sometimes but you could be awkward and 
awesome so to one I would just say is 
like like let's just Embrace some of the 
awkward um but in terms of social 
anxiety in terms of you know the fears 
around things some of the best research 
has shown that doing the thing you know 
and it doesn't have to be this again 
we're not diving in just like our 
stories we don't have to dive into the 
deep end we can baby step into the pool 
and we can start to do the things that 
scare us and the best thing that we can 
do in terms of our fear is doing it in 
ways that now prove our brain wrong you 
know cuz basically it's our brain our 
brain on fear is saying don't do that 
because you're going to get hurt you're 
going to die you're going to get you 
know you're going to feel pain whether 
it's emotional or physical pay attention 
to some of the physical pain stuff 
that's always we want to we want to feel 
these fears in certain ways because it 
does protect us but when it comes to 
social things allow yourself to feel 
those elements and recognize that it 
wasn't so bad because our brains then do 
allow us to recognize that that didn't 
happen the worst case scenarios didn't 
exist and now I can do a little bit more 
so push yourself to make that that first 
you know phone call or send the text 
message push yourself to get online push 
yourself to start conversation at you 
know the the coffee shop but then allow 
that to simmer and then push that next 
step and I love that and pushing 
yourself right this is how people get 
over phobias it's exposure therapy right 
if you're afraid of a plane we're gonna 
watch the video of a plane taking off 
and then we're going to finally build up 
to actually getting on the plane and so 
what I want you guys to think about is 
if you feel that awkwardness or that 
fear is do the thing and I will not 
grade you for a response if you say oh 
my gosh I'm a female and I'm terrified 
because I'm old school about sending a 
guy a message first online because if he 
doesn't respond that means I am you know 
destined to be alone forever no I want 
you to send out messages I want you to 
send out three messages today without 
caring if that person ever responds to 
you and all I want you to do is be proud 
of yourself for having done it that's it 
and know that if they don't respond oh 
my God wait hold on I'm still alive I 
didn't die I didn't vaporize an alien 
ship didn't come and suck me up because 
what I feared it's like okay it's fine I 
did it I was just supposed to do the 
task we're not grading you on the 
response so get yourself to the place 
and if you feel socially awkward go out 
say hi to someone right you can say hi 
there my name's Bella I'm recovering you 
know socially awkward person and I'm 
here post I am so glad to be here and if 
somebody said that to me I'd probably 
laugh and want to talk to them same here 
I love all of that absolutely perfect 
Rachel you are the best thank you so 
much for sharing your wisdom and sharing 
your precious time I know how incredibly 
busy you are and you're amazing and I am 
going to work on my own relatability 
today I think you're pretty good it's 
always good to see you and I'm so happy 
to be here so thank 
you 


a person that likes you won't leave you 
guessing why because people make time 
for the things and the people they want 
we talked about this in the last podcast 
but there are patterns and there's a 
very consistent behavior that way that 
people behave who want to be in 
relationships when i hear that somebody 
is too busy and that oh you know if i 
start hearing excuses from somebody like 
oh he's just so busy with work and he's 
just so busy and you know what he can 
only fit me in this one time this month 
i i don't i don't buy it we look at it 
as when somebody is ready to date they 
will move mountains to be with you even 
if they do have that crazy work project 
or they have something going on they 
will figure out a small pocket of time 
even if just bringing you a cup of 
coffee we have seen it over and over 
again but someone will always make time 
think about it are you ever ever ever 
too busy to communicate with someone you 
love never we prioritize it no matter 
what 


today I have someone amazing for you and 
this someone isn't just to someone this 
is someone who's part of the heartbeat 
of Smart dating Academy she's helped 
develop the curriculum that has coached 
you Lindsay thank you for finally 
finally putting some time on the 
calendar to do this because I couldn't 
be more excited to have you here oh 
fella so sweet you know people ask me 
Bella how do you bring people onto your 
own staff I'm like well it's a pretty 
high bar I really always felt that my 
heart was helping put people together 
but I definitely observed some patterns 
over the years as a Matchmaker which is 
that when people come to see you they 
have a very clear criteria of what they 
think they need in a relationship and it 
is a checklist and sometimes we're able 
to get that lined up and teach people 
and they get everything they want on the 
list but they don't necessarily they 
never felt fulfilled 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back this week's 
episode we're going to get right to it 
we're going to talk about dating we're 
going to talk about love we're going to 
talk about manifesting love and Quantum 
love and sex and dating and 
relationships and everything you 
probably thought about or maybe never 
thought about and I have one of my 
favorite people here with us who 
is Dr Laura Berman and I met Dr Berman 
in a studio at WGN TV about a decade ago 
and I had heard so many great things 
about her and we were sitting in a green 
room together and just chit-chatting and 
we were on a panel to talk about 
romantic comedies with a comedian who 
during the segment I don't know if you 
remember I know he sort of climbed into 
my lap he might have climbed into yours 
too but it was definitely a great way to 
be introduced so Dr Berman Laura my 
friend thank you so much for being here 
I'm so happy to be here of course 
anything for you you guys and just in 
case you've been living you know in a 
cave and you don't know who Dr Laura 
Berman is she is a therapist she's 
brilliant she specializes in sex love 
and relationships author of nine books 
award-winning radio and TV host has had 
four TV series on own showtime and 
Discovery Health and everybody loves Dr 
Laura Berman so Laura tell us how did 
you get into the work that you do I have 
no freaking idea no honey 
it's like with everything else the one 
thing I will say that my you know my 
parents did a God bless them were 
wonderful parents they did a lot wrong 
just like we do just like we all do 
um but one of the things they did right 
I think is that they pounded into my 
head all the way through and especially 
as I was in college and thinking about 
my future just do what inspires you and 
success will follow just do what 
inspires you just major in what inspires 
you just go to grad you know just do and 
they would every time I'd be like well I 
don't know if I'm you know don't I have 
to support myself I have you know so I I 
definitely had that Foundation that I 
think 
because you know who makes a career out 
of being a sex love and relationship at 
least when I was doing it you know 20 
years ago right it's not something that 
you would imagine 
um but now it's commonplace I mean 
nobody was a sex therapist back then in 
fact most people confused Sex Therapy 
with sex surrogacy so when they would 
meet me in here I was a sex therapist 
they thought I was actually paid to have 
sex with people 
um so that way you're not you're not no 
no that hasn't been a career path I've 
pursued although more power to those 
that do 
um it's illegal in most States but you 
know Nevada it's not 
um but no I think it was just that I 
grew up in that kind of family and also 
in a family that for good and for bad 
was extremely open and comfortable with 
sexual topics and exposed me to a lot so 
I was super comfortable with it and I 
was also 
you know my parents therapist from the 
really from before I was born my mother 
conceived me when my dad got drafted to 
Vietnam so that she she had my sister 
who was four years older but she wanted 
a baby to cuddle and to comfort her 
while she was missing my dad so she 
conceived me with that intention uh and 
I was and I fulfilled that intention I 
was born while he was still gone 
um and I was there I was my mother's 
nurturer and my parents therapist from 
the time I could speak 
um so I come to it very naturally and I 
think that's why I was drawn to therapy 
to couples therapy and the sex thing 
just sort of happened by accident 
because it naturally folded into the 
couple's work I did and I was shocked 
when none of my supervisors or 
professors or bosses 
even though they were all couples 
therapists didn't discuss sex that was 
so bizarre to me and still is 
um 
and so I went on to get specific 
training because they couldn't help me 
learn how to help couples with their sex 
lives so I did and then that's that's 
the 
convoluted story at all it's just you 
know that's what I think it is for all 
of us those things that are natural 
gifts the gifts that are cultivated in 
our childhood and sometimes you know the 
things found in our in our deepest 
heartbreak or our deepest traumas are 
all of that is where we find our gifts 
and our life purpose yeah and it sounds 
like I didn't know all I this is why I 
love doing this podcast I get to learn 
amazing things about people it's such a 
much deeper level than I knew before so 
right you were created to nurture and to 
be your mom's therapist and cuddler from 
day one and what's so inspiring and I 
hope if you're out there listening to 
this because your parents didn't let you 
do what you wanted to do or didn't 
inspire you to find your gifts that it's 
never too late if you know what you want 
to do go do that and here's a person who 
was very blessed Laura to do her thing 
and when you do what you love people 
detect that passion right and that's how 
you've been on television you've been on 
radio shows you've been hosts you are a 
host because people sense that 
authenticity and that sincerity of you 
being in flow knowing what you're 
supposed to do and doing it and loving 
it and wanting to share that with the 
world that's really what makes you 
magnetic and I think you know segwaying 
beautifully into your expertise and what 
you know the purpose of I know this 
podcast is 
discovering finding calling in love 
right 
um that's there's no stronger 
aphrodisiac and magnetic pull than being 
truly in your most authentic passionate 
expression in the world 
um I just don't I don't think there's 
anything more attractive attractive and 
attracting than that 
okay so let's dive into that I know 
you've been talking a lot about 
manifesting love so tell us about how do 
we get to this version of ourselves 
right as women we might have been 
caretaking and nurturing and and 
providing for so many other people that 
when it all strips away and maybe we 
find ourselves prematurely widowed maybe 
we find ourselves coming out of an 
unexpected divorce maybe we find 
ourselves never having met the lidoor 
pop because we don't know why how do we 
discover that how do we discover that 
yeah well and by the way when you peel 
all that caretaking and who I am to 
everyone else in the world very often we 
find there's we're not even sure what 
else is Left Right like who the hell am 
I if I'm not this person's wife now that 
I'm not their wife or these or my 
parents caretaker or my children's you 
know caretaker or whatever or my friends 
um you know and I've certainly Fallen 
prey to that in my life talk about that 
a lot how you know we can that was my 
upbringing and that was my conditioning 
so I had to uncondition myself from 
feeling responsible for everyone and 
everything around me right and my Mantra 
is just because I can fix this doesn't 
mean it's my job too you know that's 
what I have to always say to myself 
um because otherwise you make yourself 
sick and you drain yourself of your life 
force and you also don't have the energy 
Focus or time to follow follow your 
passion so one of the worst lines in all 
the best romantic comedies that have 
ever been is Jerry Maguire's you 
complete me you know when he says that 
and people swooned at the time even back 
then I was like what the hell you know 
nobody completes you 
um and I think that is something that we 
unconsciously have fallen into many of 
us especially as women 
um you know we found our identity 
outside ourselves I think men do this 
too but outside ourselves in terms of 
um you know 
I you know we I'm only gonna be okay if 
you if you're okay with me right there's 
that inherent thing and a lot of that 
has to do with our upbringing bringing 
but I think a lot of it has to do with 
our socialization as women totally 
um so I think finding Dr tedai Trent is 
one of my favorite human beings author 
she wrote a beautiful book called 
awakened women she or woman awakened 
woman she was uh she's famous for being 
Oprah's Favorite guest 
um what was her name Dr taradai Trent 
she's an African woman who when she was 
12 years old 
um you know she she was married 
basically when she was 12 or 13 had 
several kids by the time she was 14 
lived in a tiny village in Africa and 
one of these you know heifer Society 
groups came through 
um of Charity workers and this woman sat 
all the women in the village the mothers 
and daughters in her Circle and said you 
can achieve anything you want to you 
your dreams can be you know there's 
nothing too big or small and she asked 
them what is your dream and teredai was 
astounded because like she'd never even 
considered having a dream and what was 
her dream like you could have a dream 
you know she'd been married since she 
was 14 and had three or four children 
and lived in a tiny village in Africa 
and and she said and she realized in 
that moment my dream is to have an 
education I want an education so she did 
what her mother told her and she put her 
dream I want to get an education and she 
wrote her special dream in a box and she 
buried that box in the dirt in the edges 
of her African village she went on to 
get I think two phds 
um she's built endless schools in Africa 
she now raises money to give education 
to girls in Africa 
um She's So inspiring you definitely 
follow her check her out but one of the 
things that she said as we were talking 
about this topic years ago similar you 
know along these lines and I've never 
forgotten this and I think about it all 
the time is your greatest purpose which 
is what we're talking about when you're 
living your true authentic purpose 
that's when the magnetic stuff happens 
right your greatest purpose is found in 
your greatest heartbreak always you want 
to find your purpose what breaks your 
heart 
right it may be that what breaks your 
heart is 
the girls in Africa who don't have an 
education right and like you it broke 
your heart to be at the effect of this 
abusive husband and no future and life 
just what had been told to you and you 
know it broke your heart not to have 
access to education and that became her 
passion right for someone else it may be 
you know going through the death of a 
loved one or going through a terrible 
illness or going through a terrible 
divorce or being betrayed or going 
through a horrible chronic illness and 
it's so hard and heartbreaking and so 
unmooring you know and and such a huge 
what I like to call afge another [ __ ] 
growth experience extraordinaire just I 
love that acronym you've coined breaks 
you open right that is always 
where you find your greatest purpose 
because as you heal you learn and as you 
learn you can create share teach heal 
others you know it comes from that place 
and I think that really is where we find 
our soul path and where we find our 
purpose and the other place you find 
your purpose which and these don't have 
to be mutually exclusive 
um but they can be is what you would do 
for free you know because so often and I 
talk to my girlfriends about this all 
the time I have this friend who I've 
forced her to claim that she is A Course 
in Miracles coach because she has been 
doing it non-stop for 20 years you know 
it's 365 days she does it every single 
morning I'll say we'll be talking about 
something she'll say well you know the 
course says and she'll pull she just 
knows every day she knows all the layers 
she speaks about it so beautifully she's 
one of my greatest teachers and because 
she wasn't officially I don't even know 
why just because of her own worthiness 
issues she's like no no I can't call 
myself a coach I I'm a student I'm like 
cut the crap you're a coach you're a 
freaking coach 
um she's like I don't think I can put 
freaking coach on my bike 
but but we have such a hard time she's 
like that's just what I do that's just 
what I love that just comes naturally to 
me and I'm like yeah and that's your 
purpose right like so what you would do 
for free what you love to do when no 
one's looking what comes naturally to 
you we don't think of as part of our 
purpose or our greatest gifts or our 
greatest authentic expression but boy is 
that at the center of it and then if you 
put that together with your greatest 
heartbreak you know you may end up 
crocheting blankets for PTSD and 
Military bats right your greatest 
heartbreak is related to the PTSD your 
greatest passion and joy is crocheting 
boom you put them together and you have 
an outselling you know that's Etsy store 
right the next thing you know exactly 
and just because you would do it for 
free doesn't mean you have to do it bro 
yeah that's where you fine just like you 
would give 
you know dating advice right if you 
didn't weren't doing this you probably 
would just be kibbetsing with people on 
the corner and with your friends and in 
the car you know you that's what you'd 
be doing right because you love doing it 
you love helping people find love and 
helping them uncover their own 
Michelangelo sculpture truth you know to 
attract others and you know you'd be 
doing it for free if you weren't doing 
it for a career I'm guessing 100 but 
you're spot on I made two lists you know 
and I've probably told you this story 
before dear listener about how I got 
into this crazy business and I was I'm a 
finance major I have a German degree I 
ran a manufacturing company but all the 
while I was everybody's dating Oracle 
and why it came out of my biggest 
heartbreak I had a pretty painful you 
know dopamine written it was like the 
high highs the low closed captioning not 
available 
conversation so for you 
that are single or even in a 
relationship being magnetic maybe to 
bring in a partner maybe to bring in 
more friends more amazing relationships 
who all by the way lead to Partners 
exactly 100 right because we're we're 
all inherent yentas and matchmakers yes 
your new friend is going to be like oh 
my God my cousin would love you you know 
yeah that's how it happens you know we 
did an episode a few weeks ago about 
living your own independent life which 
makes you more attractive be complete in 
yourself I'd say if once you are that's 
why no one can complete you if you are 
your whole and this is what I always try 
to explain to people if you are your 
whole 
unbelievably gorgeously delicious cake 
and you are just living in your juicy 
sugary yumminess you're living your life 
you're following your passions you're 
living authentically you're in flow a 
lot of the time you know we can talk 
about the quantum reasons why this works 
in a minute but when you do that and you 
are your whole delicious cake then 
someone else is like the yummy sprinkles 
and icing right it makes it even better 
and you definitely you know enjoy cake 
with icing and you want cake with icing 
if you're you know I'm I sometimes I 
even leave the cake and just eat the 
icing personally I love icing right but 
whatever it is that other person is the 
icing and decoration on your cake not 
the cake itself and you that's where we 
fall short I think is when we feel like 
we're missing an ingredient or we or 
we're unable and unwilling to do what it 
takes to take the emotional risk 
sometimes and even the literal risks to 
follow our passions and be our most 
authentic selves and grow into our own 
delicious cake but that's when all the 
yummy things happen 
uh 100 that is when all the Yum happens 
and well tell let's let's get in to 
Quantum love I love this I love how you 
came to the concept of quantum love so 
just talk to us about what it is the 
tenants what you need to do I would just 
love to sit here and be the audible and 
read Quantum love to this entire 
audience so if you guys have not read it 
please go get it five minutes ago so I 
turn it over to you yeah I mean I've 
written nine books like you said and 
this is by far my most personal and most 
favorite and I've never said that about 
a book before 
um but 
I it grew out of my own pain 
um the pain afg my big old afge followed 
by you know the after Quakes 
um I lost my mother who I was extremely 
close to I think it was only 40 at the 
time 
um to breast what was originally breast 
cancer that metastasized 
um and I did get time to be with her and 
to say goodbye but it was the hugest 
most significant 
painful soul-wrenching I mean she was 
my baby and I was hers from the time I 
was conceived right so we were really 
enmeshed and had a really beautiful 
complicated but very beautiful and deep 
loving relationship and very corded 
energetically to each other and 
emotionally so when she went that was an 
earthquake in my life and within a year 
I just kept on I was filming a show on 
OWN I was like you know moving through 
go go go go I got [ __ ] to do and and I 
also bypassed a little bit oh she's 
still here you know I got a little 
woo-woo a bad and spiritual which was 
all true but I was kind of leaning on 
that rather than really just being with 
myself and feeling my pain and like all 
of us do and within a year I had cancer 
uh with no risk factors because she you 
know it wasn't genetic or hormone 
related but in the same breast she had 
breast cancer 
um and it was very sudden and I had to 
stop my life for almost a year chemo 
herceptin mastectomy reconstruction 
um and while that was all happening on 
their heels of the beloved grandmother 
dying and then their mother going 
through chemo and getting bald and being 
sick my kids all started to lose it as 
well 
my husband I have three I have three 
sons at the time my husband was the 
world's best cancer she was wonderful 
but my kids were really falling apart my 
oldest who's now 25 and thriving was a 
freshman in high school and suicidal my 
middle one was struggling with anxiety 
my youngest was having panic attacks and 
school refusal 
um and so all hell was breaking loose 
and therapy and all the normal tracks I 
would take as a mama just were not 
working 
and so out of desperation 
I went to see a woman who was I was 
referred to as psychic medium who has 
turned out to be one of my greatest 
teachers I still take her classes with 
her and study with her she's amazing her 
name is Dr Therese rally 
um so I went to her really primarily 
with my oldest son in mine because he 
was like my my lowest hanging uh 
emergency you know I was like you have a 
lot of emergencies like the one who's 
suicidal is like the first priority of 
con one yeah Defcon one so 
um I went or I'd never really been other 
than as a joke with my girlfriends to 
psychics or whatever and I told her what 
the situation is and she's like okay let 
me ask you know let me tune into his 
energy field he's like in school while 
this is going on and she says oh he's 
Clair sentient and I had never heard 
that term before and she explained she's 
like you know it's he feels what other 
people are feeling she goes but here's 
the tricky thing with him and a lot of 
kid other kids and even adults sometimes 
is that he is feeling really strongly 
what other people are feeling but he 
can't tell the difference between his 
feelings and other people's feelings so 
so he's like an ungrounded whipping 
around electrical cord just like feeling 
all the feelings and that's exactly who 
he was like one minute he'd be fine in 
the next minute he'd he'd be upset and 
he'd have to come up with a reason in 
his mind why he was upset and then he 
would come up with a story it's because 
you gave me the red plate and not the 
Blue Plate you know but it was really 
because he was feeling the sadness or 
anxiety of the kids sitting next to him 
you know but he couldn't make sense of 
that so it all just kind of clicked I 
was like wow that really sounds like him 
and she said so he and this is what was 
the Inception of quantum love is she 
said so here's what you need to know 
because he's feeling what you're feeling 
you have to be really careful about the 
mood you're in when you go into your 
room and I said well into his room or 
you're around him I was like well you 
know I always I felt like I'd go in 
there and show if I'm upset or angry or 
had a bad day or whatever she's like no 
he he feels what you're hiding he feels 
what you're in denial about he feels 
everything so before you go into and she 
was the one who first taught me how to 
ground which is one of like my deepest 
most treasured foundations I have a 
meditation on my website 
um if you go there to the quantum love 
page to the grounding meditation in the 
beginning I was doing it like 20 times a 
day but 
she's like it moves you into your body 
again and it grounds you energetically 
because your energy he's feeling your 
energy and your emotions are energy and 
that's what he's feeling and you and 
other people so this is what I came back 
to later which led to Quantum love so 
put a pin in that for a second so she 
says ground yourself 
and she shows me how to do this 
and she's like and just open your heart 
and think about how much you you know 
let everything else go and just think 
about how much you love him how much you 
believe in him and then if he's willing 
give him a grounding hug 
and she explained to me how you just 
send love from your heart into his and 
imagine it going through his heart and 
down his spine and deep deep deep into 
the Earth 
and so my you know 15 year old smart ass 
son who had just recently told me I was 
a 40 year old woman looking for meaning 
and self-help books so he was very poo 
poo to anything I had to say both as a 
teenager and with his scientific 
opinions of everything not at all open 
to the woo-woo and 
um I said listen I just so I grounded 
myself I opened my heart I go into his 
room and I say so listen you know this 
is what happened today and I tell him 
and he looks at me and says I don't know 
why I'm saying this but I think what 
you're saying is true 
and I said oh okay well let me show you 
this other thing she said she said to 
give you a grounding hug and he like 
very you know he would rarely he was 15 
they don't let you hug them very often 
at that age you know but he let me kind 
of stiff and I did it and he became like 
a like a sack of feathers like he was 
just so limp and it affected him so 
deeply to this day he always asked for a 
grounding hug whenever I see him like he 
he just feels that we were hiking the 
other day and he was getting really 
upset about something and afterwards 
he's like can I have a grounding hug 
um so it really it blew us both away his 
response to it but we didn't say 
anything to each other at the time um 
because I was trying to play it really 
cool because if I had showed any 
investment you know he was going to be 
like so you 
I dropped it after that and then the 
follow 
the final school today and I was in a 
great mood and I was at my locker and 
all of a sudden I felt so angry and 
frustrated and I didn't know what was 
going on but then I looked up and I 
realized oh I it's probably that that 
girl is angry and frustrated A Few 
Lockers down and like that was the [ __ ] 
everything started to change and so then 
I was like you know WTF like what is 
this and how does this work because my 
geek came out which is a science geek 
and I was like okay what is this how 
does this work I asked Teresa more about 
it 
she kind of pointed me in the direction 
of quantum physics and then I became a 
total nerd and just like dove into 
quantum physics dove into like what this 
means and how this works scientifically 
um and then I started playing with it so 
then I started using it 
to positively affect my other son's 
anxiety and then so I was mostly just 
using with my kids at first and then I 
looked at my husband and I was like hey 
Sam 
how about we yeah I didn't even say 
anything to him because he's like my 
nickname for him is send your root 
chakra because like he is so grounded 
and he just kind of Pats me on the head 
and go like go on with your bad woo-woo 
sound so cute by the way yeah 
um and so uh but one of the reasons I 
fell in love with him is that I could 
you know I was a big gaslighter back in 
the day when I was younger because it 
was how I survived in my family and I 
was really good at running circles so if 
I was in trouble I could convince you by 
the end that you were the one in trouble 
or you were the one that should be 
apologizing I was masterful and there 
was a part of me that felt safe because 
I could do that but there was another 
part of me that knew it was [ __ ] up so 
so and I hadn't really had a successful 
relationship I had been married and 
divorced to a cheater or whatever but 
when I met Sam he you cannot Gaslight 
him you can't even open the gas can like 
he smells it and he looks like put that 
[ __ ] away get that out I could not and 
because of that I could not win an 
argument with him to save my life which 
and I was very used to winning arguments 
debates as well as you know emotional 
arguments and so 
um so that was really part of what I 
fell in love with but it was also one of 
my greatest frustrations in our 
relationship because I could never win 
an argument and sometimes I wanted to 
and sometimes I really believed in my 
position and so 
um there was one time we were in Chicago 
we were living in Chicago the time we 
were outside on this little deck and he 
was upset with me about something 
my old codependent strategy would have 
been you know in the olden days to try 
to convince him that I wasn't really 
wrong and what he was upset about wasn't 
fair and you know but he said it was his 
fault sorry that was his fault but with 
him what I was doing because I wasn't 
able to do that was you know what most 
of us do I think which is the least 
healthy to do in an argument is I was 
listening to respond in other words you 
know you listen and you're thinking no I 
didn't say that no I'm going to tell 
them but you're not really being present 
with what he's saying you're just 
thinking about how you're going to 
respond or how you're going to be 
brought your dukes up yeah you're ready 
you're defensive yeah and so I 
remembered what was ultimately to become 
Quantum love it didn't have a name then 
but I I sort of said okay like let me 
just be fully grounded here let me 
ground in my body and not be my trigger 
so I did that let me open my heart okay 
now let me look at this man his mouth is 
moving he's talking I'm listening to him 
but I'm also aware of like how this is a 
blip in the screen of our whole 
relationship how much I love him I can 
see that he's hurting right now you know 
whether I think it's right or wrong for 
him to be hurting the man I love is 
hurting and I can uh listen to what he's 
saying and try it on from that 
perspective but most importantly just 
think about how much I love him and I 
didn't change my expression from the 
same one I would have had you know 
listening to respond but this man who 
never I mean he could argue in the 
Supreme Court he never he's like got a 
mind like a steel trap he never loses 
his train of thought he lost his train 
of thought and his shoulders kind of 
relaxed and he sat down next to me and 
then I put my head on his shoulder and 
we had a completely different 
conversation I was like wow that's 
freaky that was like a Jedi mind trick 
what I just did you know it was amazing 
amazing how he responded without me 
saying a word I just changed the 
energetic frequency and what I learned 
through this journey is that it really 
is you know and if you're in a 
relationship it really is 
um I I could use this for evil if I 
wanted to I don't know that it works for 
evil I've never tried it but anything I 
want truly want from an authentic place 
I get and if I'm going in to have a 
conversation that I know is difficult 
that I want to go a certain way I I move 
my body into the energetic frequency of 
how I wanted to go I open my heart I 
ground myself and I go have the 
conversation I use it in work I use it 
the other day because he was getting 
triggered about something we're moving 
houses and there are a lot of expenses 
and and I was feeling his anxiety and I 
was starting to move into anxiety or 
codependence and I just grounded myself 
I moved into home frequency I moved into 
the frequency of abundance and that we 
have everything we could possibly need 
and all that we want will be provided 
and he immediately shift without me 
saying a word so that's basically the 
principle of quantum love in 
relationships in dating here's what we 
need to like the basics of the science 
of quantum love and quantum physics is 
that we are all pure vibrating energy 
you and I seem solid right these mics 
were talking in seem solid you and I 
seem separate we are on a certain 
uh level from the level of our five 
senses we are separate but on the 
quantum level on the atomic level we are 
all vibrating atoms that are part of the 
same Quantum soup there is no separation 
between you and me really it's just 
perceived and our bodies 
are vibrating and Harmony our body is a 
harmonic vibration put it that way that 
is constantly shifting and changing 
with every thought and emotion we have 
and on top of and this has been shown 
and proven in all sorts of really cool 
ways and I get into the science in the 
book you know I can geek out with you if 
you want to but we don't need to go 
there but the science is there 
um but what's really cool is that we are 
constantly imagine unconsciously 
matching each other's frequency 
so in order for you and I to even be in 
this conversation our frequencies have 
found a happy medium what's really 
happened is you've been trained to me 
because every time I'm about to talk to 
someone I move into home frequency hold 
that frequency so everyone else is 
matching me 
um rather than me matching them which 
was my old codependent instincts uh you 
know years ago so 
um anyone who's in your orbit anyone who 
you talk to anyone who you even see or 
perceive with your five senses is 
vibrating in some sort of harmony with 
your body's vibration but that's really 
important in dating right because we 
have kind of importance right because 
not even just in a date and making and 
connecting with someone but who you're 
going to attract in you are only going 
to perceive be attractive to and be uh 
perceived as attracted to attractive to 
someone who vibrates in harmony with 
your base frequency right so if you're 
someone who lives a lot of the time in 
guilt and shame let's just say and 
that's something you struggle with 
that's something that's part of your 
daily stories if you kind of do that 
thought cleanse where you pay attention 
to the stories you're telling yourself 
and the way you're beating yourself up 
throughout the day if you are someone 
who's walking through the worlds maybe 
on the outside looks gorgeous acts 
fabulous but inside is constantly 
struggling with shame and guilt you are 
going to repeatedly be attracted to and 
attract and people who are going to 
stimulate match and engage with shame 
and guilt with you so they're either 
going to create more of it they're going 
to be living in it they're going to be 
stimulating it they're going to be 
cheating on you they're going to be 
criticizing you they're going to be 
ghosting you they're going to be really 
married when they're not you know those 
kinds of people if you're attracting 
people like that my guess is that is a 
vibrational match for where you tend to 
live a lot of the time 
just wow okay I'm completely with you so 
tell us how do and and I'm sure this is 
resonating with me it's resonating with 
every person who's driving or walking 
like crashing their car listening to 
this right now going what the hell is my 
frequency and why am I attracting all 
these red flag people why am I reliving 
all of this how do we give us a 
grounding meditation tell us like how 
can we be better now to do what you're 
doing like I think this is amazing can 
we help people as they're listening to 
this yeah absolutely I mean if you're 
driving don't do what I'm about to walk 
you through because you gotta Focus wait 
till you stop pull over and if you go on 
my website there's tons of meditations 
for this not only for grounding but also 
for getting clear because here's the 
thing let me just take a step back here 
um there's like this larger picture 
right if you're someone who lives 
primarily in shame and guilt and this 
isn't good for the dating Academy 
business but I'm just gonna say don't 
even try to date 
until you address the core wounds that 
have brought you to a place in your life 
where most of the time you are speaking 
to yourself in ways that create shame or 
guilt or you're surrounding yourself 
with people who are making you're 
inspiring those feelings in you right 
both are usually true and that's usually 
rooted in a hypercritical upbringing 
abandonment trauma neglect traumas you 
know emotional abuse physical abuse 
sexual abuse but there's a whole range 
and a whole Continuum it doesn't mean 
you have to been horrifically abused to 
be living in that frequency right but I 
honestly don't think you're gonna get 
anywhere if that is where you tend to 
live 
when it comes to dating I think you are 
so much better served investing and 
shifting and healing the stories you've 
been carrying your whole life that lead 
you to have these stories Because by the 
way if you're living in shame and guilt 
or fear you are someone who really 
struggles at your core of feeling worthy 
of love 
I have to be something or do something 
different in order to be fully worthy of 
love and if that's where you're living 
how the hell are you going to attract in 
someone who can love you well if you're 
not worthy of love right so that has to 
be healed but let's say you're not 
really in those far reaches and you're 
someone who just hasn't been 
it hasn't been working for you right 
the key key is Not only in grounding 
which I promise I will walk you through 
but 
even as are more important is getting 
clear on how you want to feel because so 
here we're working with Quantum love 
backwards right our energetic frequency 
is rooted in our emotions 
okay our emotional states set our bodies 
frequency okay when you move yourself 
into the energetic frequency of the 
emotional states you want to live in and 
whatever fill in the blank in love in 
life and work for today whatever it is 
for this conversation when you move your 
body into the energetic frequency of how 
you want to feel 
that's when you become a magnet for it 
because you are now in the vibration of 
that which you want to feel and by the 
way everything you want you want because 
you want to feel a certain way I mean 
think about it you want that fancy car 
because of how you're going to feel with 
it in your driveway driving down the 
street you want that certain kind of 
person man woman whoever 
how it's because you want to feel how 
you're going to feel when you have the 
love of your life right so the question 
is not to ask yourself yes sure what 
qualities that person has that you want 
to be with or your shared Vision or your 
shared goals or your attraction or 
whatever it's if I were to were to wake 
up next to that person every single 
morning 
[Music] 
and live with them day in day out how 
would I feel 
and I actually have a quiz on my website 
that shows you how you want to feel 
because a lot of people don't even 
freaking know right but it gives you the 
two main ways you want to feel 
and then from that is where you begin to 
create and manifest because everything 
that we have everything that happened in 
our life we're all manifesting 
24 7. we're just not doing it 
consciously everything that's happening 
to us on some level we're manifesting 
um but we're just not aware of it just 
like most of us are matching other 
people's frequencies rather than having 
them match ours 
so 
when you get clear on how you want to 
feel you've been unsuccessful in love 
you've been pulling in the wrong people 
it's not really been working for you 
start with how you want to feel first of 
all 
and then once you know that you're going 
to ground and I'll take you through two 
steps you're going to ground and then 
I'm going to move you into 
um 
what it feels like to be in the 
energetic frequency of the feeling you 
want to create in your life and love and 
then if you can hold that frequency and 
I'll talk to you about how to do that 
even 
you know 51 of the time if you can keep 
moving back and forth into that 
frequency but spend 51 percent of your 
time there you will be astounded at the 
Miracles that they seem like Miracles 
that start happening in terms of who you 
attract in and what opportunities and 
what experiences you're attracting into 
your life 
make sense 
perfect okay so let's go to here eager 
to hear okay so first of all I'm gonna 
just ask everyone right even if you you 
may not know this is just for the 
purpose of practice you can go to my 
website later and see exactly how you 
want to feel in love or whatever but 
just choose a feeling that you love to 
feel so let's say it's 
passion or playfulness or feeling 
cherished or feeling safe or feeling 
protected or feeling excited or feeling 
um seductive or whatever just pick one 
for the purposes of this exercise okay 
you got one Bella yeah you don't have to 
say it but you have to get it okay 
so the first thing is to ground and by 
the way the more you do this the more in 
your body you are the more you can 
create what you want the more of an 
internal Compass you have this has so 
many benefits so 
um I put sticky notes on the mirrors in 
my car everywhere in the beginning just 
ground just to remind me to do this 
because it's real quick you're going to 
take a really you can start taking deep 
breaths as I talk you through this but 
you're going to take some deep breaths 
in through the nose and out through the 
mouth and imagine kind of filling up 
your whole belly 
um as you breathe in 
and on your next breath in I want you to 
imagine a light a beautiful light any 
color that comes to you 
streaming in through the top of your 
head that Crown chakra as you breathe in 
it's filling every cell of your body and 
as you start to breathe out and then 
fully breathe out it is shooting out 
your tailbone deep deep deep deep into 
the Earth like roots of a tree grounding 
you there so take three breaths like 
that and just notice what you feel in 
your body right so you're breathing in 
that beautiful light as you breathe in 
it's filling every cell of your body 
with that beautiful light and then 
helps even breathe out like that goes 
straight at your tailbone deep deep deep 
into the Earth so take a few more 
breaths like that and and one of the 
things I like to do just like the roots 
of a tree should be twice the width of 
its widest branches 
think about your energetic reach today 
right is it you're going to be talking 
to 100 people you're gonna just be 
seeing one friend you can make your 
roots as wide and as deep as you want to 
um so take one more breath grounding 
breath and you probably notice 
um sort of a settling your hips will 
soften a little bit you'll feel kind of 
settled into your seat a little bit more 
I love to do this sitting on the ground 
even 
um 
uh it feels even better to me or 
standing Barefoot on the earth or on the 
grass I love doing it that way too 
so now that you're grounded in your your 
energy is now grounded As Above So Below 
all connected right now here's the cool 
part we're going to move your body now 
that we're grounded in it into the 
energy of the feeling you want to 
manifest more of in your life so 
um let me just think I'll use one of 
mine I want to feel um peace peace is 
one that's coming up for me today okay 
so I'm going to use myself as an example 
just to walk you through this 
I want you to imagine it can be a real 
time from your past or even just a a 
fantasy or an imaginary time or 
something you read or one time in a 
romance novel or something but 
um a time in your life or an imagined 
time when you felt that feeling fully so 
for me it would be a time that I felt 
unadulterated complete 
peace like the most peace I could 
possibly imagine 
um so imagine that scene right so as I'm 
sitting here thinking about peace 
um I see a time that I was sitting up on 
top of this rock and uh like a a 
swimming jumping Rock jumping hole with 
my kids and the Sun was shining and it 
was so beautiful and I was listening to 
all the kids jump and scream and have 
such a fun a fun time and I was feeling 
the energy of the Rock and the sun on my 
face right so here's the key I'm there 
in first person I am not looking at you 
so you're not looking at yourself in 
that scene you are in the scene in first 
person as if it's happening right here 
right now so I can look down at my feet 
on the Rock and my knees bent in front 
of me I can see the Goosebumps of my arm 
from swimming in the cold water up to 
the Rock I can hear the sounds of the 
kids I can smell the trees around me 
right I am there in first person and the 
reason for that is your body can't tell 
the difference between reality and 
rehearsal so you are literally your body 
thinks as you do this that you are in 
that scene and so therefore it is moving 
into the frequency of the feeling that 
that scene creates in you without you 
having to feel anything you're going to 
feel it as you imagine the scene in 
first person but now your body is moving 
into that frequency so what you probably 
feel is a little bubbling and spreading 
in your chest the loosening of your hips 
the loosening of your back maybe there's 
a smile on your face loosening in your 
throat 
softening in your throat right so just 
anchor it can be any or all or none of 
those but just anchor what bodily 
Sensations which you will feel now in 
this grounded State what bodily 
Sensations 
this scene and thus the feeling you want 
to create 
in your body right so we want to Anchor 
this 
you are now in the energetic frequency 
of that feeling you want to create in 
love or life or anything else right so 
from this place 
I like to just even ask my body to 
Anchor it feels really good to you just 
say yes yes I say yes to this feeling of 
like fill in your blank for me I say yes 
to this feeling of Peace today and every 
day I claim peace I anchor this feeling 
in my body I call it into my life now 
I'm putting it into my conscious 
awareness 
and what I'm going to do in my 
day-to-day life today and moving forward 
is I'm going to be looking for 
opportunities around me that Inspire 
feelings of peace right so if I'm 
walking to buy a park and I see a 
beautiful area to sit amongst some 
flowers instead of continuing to walk 
I'm going to go in there and sit for a 
minute and be like yeah I welcome in 
peace this is a really peaceful place 
I'm gonna let my movie my body move back 
into that vibration right I'm going to 
look around me and start using my the 
lens that I'm looking for for peace oh 
is there peace over there or is there a 
piece over there oh I'm gonna go over 
there and that's what I'm going to 
follow and all of a sudden all these 
opportunities and people and situations 
are going to start showing up all of a 
sudden 
that my that I'm like oh yeah that 
sounds really peaceful yeah I do want to 
do that right and that's just my feeling 
right you're I'm just using that as an 
example but whatever feeling you want to 
feel 
and so for a dater for example if this 
person needs to get on the apps and 
start to build their dating funnel or 
maybe you know they want to feel maybe 
they want to feel attractive they want 
to feel like there's an abundance of 
good people yeah if they're going on a 
date they want to feel beautiful they 
want to feel Charming they want to feel 
flirtatious right so are these words 
that you would that you hear often for 
people that are looking for love yes but 
I would even take it a step further than 
that because you're being you know and I 
I don't I'm not good at mincing words I 
don't mean this as a criticism but 
you're being accidentally short-sighted 
right you're only thinking about how 
they're going to feel on the date 
I want the Charming part but maybe your 
biggest feeling you want I I don't think 
most people would say once I find that 
perfect person I want to wake up every 
day feeling Charming 
totally maybe they do but they want to 
feel Charming for the initial date right 
so if you just want a lot of dates then 
go with charming but that's why it's so 
important to even jump step over that 
and think about how you want to feel in 
love right because if how you want to 
feel in love let's say is desired right 
that would be the closest thing to 
Charming for the sake of this or safe 
right it's a big deal all right so let's 
say you want to feel safe really get to 
know what that feeling of safety think 
about those times in your life that you 
felt unequivocal holding safety 
unconditional acceptance make it up in 
your mind if you never had that in your 
life right imagine it 
and and then before you walk into the 
bar or the coffee shop or anything else 
even what that morning before you get 
into your car or go out the door ground 
yourself move yourself into the 
energetic frequency in your mind of 
safety and the way it would look on this 
in this relationship is is safety in 
that and you will have already had this 
scene in your mind is that like I'm 
showing up as my true authentic self I 
don't have to be mincing my words or 
being hyper Vigilant you know I'm 
obviously just meeting this person so 
I'm not gonna like you know farted all 
out on the table chair and over share 
whatever but like this person is someone 
who wants to get my wants to get to know 
my true self who wants to show up 
authentically and be unconditionally 
accepted him or herself and wants the 
same for me and I am going to show up on 
this date in full authenticity and 
acceptance and expecting safety and 
acceptance in return and when I walk 
into that restaurant or bar or coffee 
shop 
I am 
energetically actually emitting that 
frequency so the only people that are 
even got and you can do that before you 
push put your profile up on the dating 
app and the only people that are going 
to reach out to you are probably going 
to be people that match that frequency 
and even better if you get clear on how 
you want to feel in love and put it in 
your profile I'm curious what you think 
about this Bella but like let's say the 
three the two top ways you want to feel 
is safe and vulnerable right so one of 
your sentences is I'm so excited to find 
my person who believes in authenticity 
and B and being vulnerable with each 
other and creating full safety and love 
right boom you're getting rid of 90 of 
the [ __ ] right there totally right 
the players the hookupers right that's 
not safe that's not vulnerable right 
so so I think it would be cool to even 
put that in your profile all right I'm 
gonna Push pause I'm gonna Push pause 
because I'm just realizing that my uh my 
power's about to go so I'm going to plug 
in my computer 
oh you push pause on the recording for a 
minute just yeah can you edit this 
okay 
all right I love this about knowing how 
you want to feel in your relationship 
okay not just on a date like make it 
bigger do you want to feel excited do 
you want to feel passionate do you want 
to feel safe and want to feel connected 
do you want to feel inspired do you want 
to feel desired you know don't even 
think about the short-term dating think 
about when that when you have that 
perfect person because they're there 
they just haven't shown up in your life 
yet right it's like a seed beneath the 
surface that hasn't germinated and 
popped through yet but it's still there 
right they're there so 
and I would say even call them in right 
like call them in with your energetic 
frequency because magnetize them right 
you can find them and you're not going 
to sit back on your couch and expect 
them to ring your doorbell but think in 
terms of magnetizing being a magnet for 
someone who is going to 
um Inspire those feelings in You by the 
very essence of who they are and how 
they operate in the world 
100 I'm just thinking like grounding and 
you're feeling safe and you're feeling 
accepted and if you walk into a date 
like that you guys okay think about 
you're not gonna worry about oh my God I 
have like a little lipstick on my teeth 
who cares you're feeling safe and you're 
feeling accepted and what is that gonna 
do energetically it's going to make you 
be the most authentic version of 
yourself that's on the logistical side 
right on the logistical side your body 
language the things you say the 
Expressions on your face all of that is 
going to admit I'm a secure grounded 
safe confident person right which is 
very attractive and that's all yummy 
good stuff but on an energetic Quantum 
level 
what you are doing is moving that person 
across from you into because otherwise 
you would just match theirs and they'd 
match yours and you'd find a happy 
medium or if you tend toward 
codependence like I did you would just 
be matching everyone else giving up your 
frequency all together right so when you 
walk in holding your frequency guess 
what everyone and everything around you 
matches you so then that date matches 
your frequency of safety and connection 
or authenticity and if they can't match 
that guess what they do they leave or 
they don't ask for a second date or they 
don't show like they won't even show up 
in your field right so you're skipping 
over 
you may end up with shorter dates right 
because that person won't be able then 
it won't be aggressive or uncomfortable 
it'll just be really clear to you this 
isn't a match right it's a weed out 
process it's a weeding out readout 
process it's pruning 
the people that aren't matching that 
aren't going to give you what you want 
want to feel in the future and if they 
don't call guess what the Exterminator 
just said 
like that's right that's it right that 
person has been weeded out so sometimes 
we say dodging a bullet but in this case 
I think people weed themselves out if 
they don't match if you come in grounded 
with that energy you've grounded 
yourself you visualized you have put 
yourself in that moment of when you felt 
so safe so loved so connected so when 
you walk in with that yeah that's 
incredibly magnetic to the right person 
the right person someone who's looking 
for a wham bam thank you ma'am or has 
bad energy or as a gaslighter hasn't 
done that they're not gonna they're 
gonna be like hey wow what's this and 
then you'll also find that some people 
will say okay wow you know I just 
there's something about you that just 
feels so safe and like you seem so 
together and you know like you'll find 
that people really and that person may 
not be you know that person may be a 
match for you or maybe someone who's so 
ungrounded themselves that they're 
really attracted to your togetherness 
right and then you'll have to decide 
whether that's what you want or not so 
it's not gonna only be it's gonna be 
anyone who is 
magnetized to the per you know she or he 
who feels and wants to feel completely 
accepted and authentic right 
who doesn't right except the gaslighters 
and [ __ ] so we get rid of those 
right and you can fill in any feeling I 
think there's like four or five seven 
different feeling sets in this quiz that 
I was talking about that I find that 
people are looking for most frequently 
in love but 
um you know you can share those 
um I'm trying to remember it was safe I 
because I'm so bad at memory lately but 
it's safe and can safe and uh connected 
vulnerable enough 
authentic uh desired and passionate 
adventurous and playful 
um they were feeling sets that I found 
when I am trying to remember the other 
ones I can't write out but um 
uh they're kind of what I find that 
people say the most that they're missing 
in their love relationship they wish 
they could have more of or that they're 
looking for 
um and it's uh it's really powerful once 
because because what you can do then 
once you know how you want to feel if 
you're someone looking for love is that 
you're doing this before you go on the 
dating app before you go on a date 
you're you know before you leave the 
house but you're all so you're doing it 
around your dating quote unquote life 
but what's really important to remember 
is that you're also just doing it in 
your day-to-day life because it's not 
that you just want to feel right safe in 
love you want to feel safe right so 
so if you are now walking through the 
world saying okay I'm someone who wants 
to feel safe and unconditionally 
accepted and you're using that as the 
lens you are now calling in and looking 
for opportunities and connections and 
relationships and situations that 
Inspire safety acceptance right so when 
you know 
you get that all of a sudden that 
invitation to you know a costume dance 
party where everybody comes as their 
crazy alter egos you know you think hey 
this is a great opportunity for me to 
practice like just being totally uh you 
know with a whole bunch of other people 
are in their complete authenticity right 
I'm gonna go to this thing and and have 
some fun in my true authentic expression 
and practice feeling safety in this low 
stake situation with all these people 
that I don't even know and by the way 
once you go you're going to meet three 
or four people that end up becoming 
great friends and maybe even a date 
right so you're living your life that 
way cultivating that feeling wherever 
you find it calling the opportunities 
for those feelings in and before you 
know it you're spending 51 percent of 
your time and feelings of safety and 
unconditional acceptance and then boy 
does your life become that including 
your dating life I love this so much I 
mean and it's all true do you are there 
other things that you can and I know 
this is riveting to most people you're 
picturing yourself grounded with light 
coming into your head and shooting up 
your tailbone and you're grounded with 
roots that are wider than the widest 
branches and all of these amazing things 
are there any other things you can tell 
us about Quantum love and bringing it 
into our lives or being it well a lot of 
what I talk about in in Quantum love is 
in recognizing what and this is how you 
really start to shift 
what the way your life is to the life 
that you really want 
in love and everything 
um is what I call your Fe your E8 your 
ego home frequency index it looks like 
because what I have and you'll see this 
in the book and on the web on the 
quantum love page of my website is what 
I call the quantum love map so every 
feeling we have has an energetic 
frequency 
and shame and guilt really shame and 
then guilt shame is the lowest frequency 
emotion we can feel love Bliss is the 
highest right hopefully none of us spend 
our eight well none of us can spend 24 7 
in love and Bliss except maybe the Dalai 
Lama right and hopefully we don't spend 
all of our time in shame or guilt right 
but there's a Continuum and so the 
lowest frequency is shame the highest 
frequency is love Bliss that you know 
Bliss I would sort of say is kind of 
orgasm right it's like that highest 
highest point of joy that we touch into 
but few of us remain 
um 
and then there's everything in between 
once so so the way that I explain it and 
there have been I'm standing on the 
shoulders of giants I didn't you know 
I'm just culling all the science 
together but they've been able to 
calibrate the energetic frequency that 
this of these emotions in our bodies 
and our energetic frequency emits and 
and trains other people to us right so 
that's why it's a Jedi mind trick for 
your relationship because in a love 
relationship we are are we are not only 
matching each other's frequencies we are 
entrained uh energetically with each 
other which is like a quantum 
entanglement so that means it's 
immediate and instantaneous 
matching so you're not having to find a 
happy medium you're just what you know 
and they've been able to show like show 
this in so many I could go geek out on 
all the science but they've been I'll 
just give you one quick example there 
was a University of Washington study 
where they took people couples in loving 
relationship took them to different 
sides of the campus and when they shined 
a light in the eye of one partner the 
ocular receptors in the brain of the 
other lit up like we are so physically 
and energetically matched in ways that 
we aren't consciously aware of and it is 
a blessing and a curse energetically 
right so that's why it's so important 
that example I gave with my son was a 
perfect example of how entrained and 
enmeshed we are to one another 
energetically but there is a Continuum 
right so the Effie is like uh where you 
tend to live on that Quantum love map at 
your on average at your highest point 
and at your lowest point and so we tend 
to live in different points of that on 
some love map right so one of us may 
tend to live in our lowest point is that 
we're feeling angry and our highest 
point is that we're feeling 
um you know loving let's just say right 
so that or someone else maybe I you know 
my lowest point is shame and my highest 
point is curiosity right so so there's a 
way and I have quizzes and everything 
else but there's a way that you figure 
out not only where what your kind of 
range is where you tend to live but what 
it also shows you the Effie is kind of 
shaped like an in a sideway you know an 
infinity symbol or a sideways eight that 
midpoint once you track the midpoint 
which I show you how to do it's easy but 
once you get that high point and low 
point 
about and this may be different for 
everything right like so you may say 
when I think about love at my lowest low 
I feel this way at my highest high I 
feel this way it could be in my 
day-to-day life at my lowest life could 
be around parenting right so you can do 
this in general or for something 
specific but that midpoint is super 
important because that midpoint is your 
point of transition that you want to 
start getting really really conscious 
about right so at the midpoint on your 
fa Fe where you tend to live on that 
Quantum love map let's say is 
anger right that's when you start to 
move up the scale or down the scale that 
is a really important point of 
Consciousness for you so then every time 
you notice you're feeling angry you 
claim the choice am I going to move into 
those lower frequencies or into these 
higher frequencies because the truth is 
the higher the lower your frequency the 
less of what you want is going to show 
up in your world the less of what you 
want you're going to be manifesting 
because the quantum fields and reality 
this is quantum physics it's crazy 
responds to your energetic frequency it 
matches it so the more time you spend 
even in optimism and curiosity and 
openness and hopefulness 
the more the universe will sh bring 
those things to your reality 
um and that I mean this is why Quantum 
physicists don't have to leave the 
building and or do their experiments in 
a vacuum because they're unconscious 
much less conscious expectations of how 
the outcome is going to go determines 
what's going to happen on the atomic 
level of these experiments so they will 
accidentally impact the outcome of the 
experiment just by being in the room 
without being there because of their 
energetic frequency of their expectation 
conscious or otherwise so that's what's 
so cool about that is that once you 
start to get clear on how you want to 
feel and you work to cultivate more of 
that feeling in your life and you start 
to 
to recognize when you're at that 
midpoint and moving away from that which 
you want to feel then so much more magic 
starts showing up in your life of 
opportunities people dates connections 
experiences that Inspire more of that 
feeling in your life 
it's like Quantum love as you're talking 
about it is the basis for the Law of 
Attraction it is it's the science it's I 
always say it's like the secret behind 
the secret because the secret behind the 
secret because you know the famous 
example you write yourself a check for a 
million dollars right well plenty of 
people write themselves a check for a 
million dollars and nothing happens 
the problem is that they aren't moving 
their bodies and their minds into the 
energetic frequency of he or she or they 
who has a million dollars in their 
pocket what would that feel like what 
would you feel if you had that million 
dollars and how can you live from that 
feeling every day and and manifest more 
of that feeling in your life and by the 
way you will end up with a million 
dollars and a million other things that 
create that feeling that a million 
dollars would have created in you 
it's amazing absolutely awesome so tell 
you've also and I think this is really 
closely related we've talked so much 
about ourselves and and being Quantum 
love how do we as we think about love 
you talk about manifesting and 
manifesting partners and I know you've 
been doing this now as part of your 
practice how do we do that yeah well I 
have um you should join her Bella I have 
a manifesting Mondays club with my dear 
friend Andrea Kane she's another Chicago 
and I met Andrea she probably met her 
with me a couple times she's one of my 
favorite friends she's an amazing 
teacher she has a book uh out called 
kicking ass in a corset seven principles 
of internally referenced leadership and 
it's all about you know it's so 
compatible with Quantum love in many 
ways because it's all about how to 
Source your peace and your joy and your 
wholeness and your grounding from inside 
out versus outside in 
um but we have been she's all about 
manifesting and is more of a geek than I 
am with this stuff so we've been doing 
this monthly Club where we meet the 
first Monday of every month and then 
halfway through the month we meet for 
like office hours just to troubleshoot 
and whatever you know with p with 
everybody and it's an amazing group of 
people you get all the recordings 
whether you come to the actual you know 
times or not but it's all about 
manifesting the life you want and how 
and really because what it entails is 
learning how to become an energetic 
match for the life you want and 
removing the blocks 
from 
that are in the way and that's what a 
lot of what we work on is so every month 
someone gets into what we call the love 
seat rather than the hot seat but 
someone gets into the love seat and I 
work with them one-on-one around an area 
that they're feeling stuck where like I 
know what I want is to feel playful and 
you know I know how I want to feel it's 
just not I keep attracting in this type 
or I can't seem or I had this experience 
with this guy I was dating and so then 
we go into it and we get to the core of 
what the block is and it's always what 
everybody in the room needs to hear you 
know that's how these things work 
um but it's a really cool group and I do 
find that doing this in community and 
doing this in a way that you can feel 
really supported because here's the cool 
thing about manifesting love or 
manifesting everything we're this is our 
Birthright we're we're born with the 
internal Instinct and knowledge of how 
to do this it just gets conditioned out 
of us and like covered up with mud like 
that famous Buddhist statue that all of 
a sudden there was a crack in in it 
after hundreds of years they thought it 
was Clay and what had happened is 
hundreds of years ago during some 
Invasion the monks had covered this pure 
gold Buddha statue with mud to hide it 
from The Invader so it wouldn't be 
pillaged and for hundreds and hundreds 
of years no one thought twice about it 
but once they removed this crack showed 
they removed the mud and there was this 
gorgeous Golden Buddha underneath and 
that's how I think of us we have all 
this mud that gets caked on us from our 
traumas and dramas and big tea and 
Little T traumas and neglects and 
criticism and heartaches and heartbreaks 
and bullied and blah blah and it just 
cakes mud on this very natural brilliant 
ability we have and so what we what I 
think is important is to be in community 
and to be in the process of getting 
support for 
um you know being around other people 
who are on a similar journey and who 
will marry you and support you in that 
and also in learning how to crack 
through the mud 
um crack through the mud ladies and 
gentlemen you have a golden statue right 
inside of you so we'll just have to hose 
off the mud a little bit yeah that's it 
maybe crack through a few hard places 
and once it cracks open 
um you know that's how the light gets 
out right wasn't that Leonard Cohen it's 
it's the cracks I don't mind the cracks 
because that's how the light gets out 
oh my gosh wow I'm so blown away I feel 
like I've I've I've matched your energy 
you're like the Jedi mind I'm like I'm 
feeling really connected and powerful 
and passionate so whatever you're 
putting out there I've drank and I've 
trained I've it's been injected into I 
only use my powers for good and by the 
way I don't have powers that anyone else 
doesn't have I've just been cultivating 
them but this is the cool part anytime I 
go into a meeting or an interview or a 
conversation or a difficult conversation 
with my kids or husband or whatever I 
use this and I just let everyone else 
match me and it always is an amazing 
time for all parties involved right and 
I'm guessing so much of your time you're 
like I just want to be love yeah that's 
it I just yeah I mean in every and I 
don't make New Year's resolutions for 
years now I just make resolutions on how 
I want to feel 
and this and every year it's different 
right but this year it was peace love 
and connection that was for me what was 
most important this year other years has 
been other things and so uh yeah that's 
what I put out you know as I was about 
to sit down with you everything I do 
that's how I want to feel this year 
until I decide I want to feel something 
different until I'm like okay I have 
enough of that now I want to feel 
excitement and passion you know whatever 
but I'm Still Loving the peace love and 
connection so if you're feeling peace 
love and connection you entrained to me 
I'm totally feeling peace loving 
connection 
we've now melded we are one 
we already were you're just feeling it 
now absolutely I'm I'm completely I'm 
awakened to it at this point so thank 
you so so much for being here for this 
amazing 
um conversation I just I'm like in my 
feels and I'm sure hopefully you guys 
are driving in your car or blow drying 
your hair or walking your dog or 
snuggled up in bed right now with the 
covers pulled up tight and a nice cool 
environment and I thank you Laura for 
being here and for being a friend and 
for always being willing to give because 
you're an incredibly generous thoughtful 
person and and to all of you I wish you 
an envisioned Quantum love think about 
what do you want to be what do you want 
to feel and how are you going to ground 
yourself how are you going to show up 
everywhere in that world with how you 
want to feel and how are you going to 
watch with Marvel and how people sync to 
you maybe for the first time in your 
life so I wish you a week of quantum 
love until we meet again next week 


[Music] 
you can't make a major decision without 
being connected to the part of you 
that's making decisions in your life 
right and we could say sort of that's 
like brain function right executive 
function part of the brain but really 
what I'm talking about is the capital S 
self not the person you want to be not 
the person you think you should be but 
like really who are you and so many of 
us when we've been in certainly toxic 
relationships we lose that sense of 
ourselves we lose it by Design because 
it's the abuser's job to whittle that 
away we lose it because in order to be 
in something toxic and unhealthy and 
unhappy there's a level of dissociating 
that we have to do and so really the 
first thing we got to do is get back in 
touch with Who Am I who am I really at 
my core and this may differ from who you 
were pre-marriage pre kids right you may 
never have connected with yourself in 
this 
way 


most of those people who reach out to me 
the number one reason why they are 
meditating is because they're working on 
thems because they're ending a 
relationship or they're wanting to find 
a relationship people don't usually just 
decide oh I'm going to meditate because 
it's the thing to do just like with 
Fitness if you're already kind of trim 
or you're happy with how you look maybe 
you're not in shape but you don't really 
feel any pain Point you're not always 
likely if you don't have that habit to 
work out well it's the same with 
meditation if you're not really 
experiencing extenuating stress or pain 
or anything in your life you're not 
really likely to just sit down and want 
to meditate you know for self-care 
there's usually a very important reason 
and that happens to be for relationships 
you will notice that you become so 
confident and it makes sense because you 
are tuning into yourself you feel more 
tuned into other people so you're not 
really focused on the extraneous you're 
you're focused on a deeper meaning 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
hey smart daters hope you are having a 
wonderful day so far and my wish for you 
is that something amazing is going to 
happen to you today and I want you to 
tell yourself right now something 
amazing is going to happen to me today 
and say it out loud because when you say 
it out loud you're putting it out into 
the universe so maybe a great parking 
spot is going to open up for you maybe 
you're going to scratch off the winning 
number on the lottery maybe you're going 
to meet eyes with the beautiful stranger 
today and smile and they're gonna walk 
over to you and ask you you know what 
scent you're wearing because you smell 
Divine I hope something wonderful 
happens to you today now what I wanted 
to talk to you about today is the 
biggest way to get over an ex or someone 
who's not good for you somebody you're 
pining for but mainly you know or even 
to get over grieving somebody could be 
somebody you were married to somebody 
you were dating for a minute and they 
disappeared somebody you had a long-term 
relationship with or someone you wish 
would be interested in you 
um 
let me proceed it by saying I've talked 
a lot about how to heal from heartbreak 
and help people at Smart dating Academy 
with this all the time so we've talked 
about things like getting rid of 
everything this person gave you right 
you can burn it detox it have a bonfire 
give it to Goodwill you know really kind 
of erasing reminders of this person but 
one of the things that I have come 
across in recent research is really 
interesting and it's something called 
negative reappraisal and this is the 
best and most proven way to get over 
your grief about somebody so typically 
when we're grieving somebody it's 
because we're thinking about all of the 
good times that we had together we're 
imagining what this person was like what 
our relationship was like when it was 
really really good when they called all 
the time when they were Intoxicated by 
us and they wanted to be with us every 
minute of every day and we did fun 
dinners together and fun trips together 
and we bought each other gifts and we 
talked about what the future looks like 
and when we're grieving and when we're 
missing somebody our brain goes back to 
those parts and we pedestalize those 
memories and that makes us miss this 
person even more what negative 
reappraisal is guys is it's basically 
putting logic to this the person who 
we're romanticizing we did all those 
dinners with bought us all those gifts 
we had so much fun with so much intimacy 
with that person for whatever reason is 
gone it was like an illusion that person 
changed they changed or the way they 
felt about us changed and what we want 
to do is sit down and to do a negative 
reappraisal 
is write down all of the ways that this 
person hurt you write down all of the 
ways with which they wronged you what 
are the things that hurt you that you 
hated about this person write that list 
down and although I am a psychotic 
Optimist and I'm always talking about 
getting to our positive place and 
getting to our happy place in this one 
spot I want to tell you this is when 
being overtly positive will potentially 
hurt you if you find yourself going back 
and romanticizing what if what was what 
could have write this list down with 
your hands write it down with pen and 
paper carry this list around with you 
and when you find yourself going back 
and getting sad open that page and open 
up and read the reality of what this 
relationship was like maybe they hurt 
you they it goes to Jew they were 
critical they were mean they stopped 
wanting to be with you they wouldn't 
commit to you they stopped calling 
themselves their boyfriend or your 
girlfriend they just they started being 
mean to you and saying I don't like the 
way you eat your Peas I don't like the 
way you smell in the morning whatever it 
is and write those things that were 
hurtful down that is who that person was 
and that is what this relationship was 
so negative reappraisal is probably the 
most effective way if you're really 
grieving and you find yourself harboring 
feelings and you can't get over an ex 
give this a try let me know how it feels 
it's shown great success with a lot of 
clients that I've worked with and with 
what the research is coming out of the 
psychological world so I hope this helps 
you if you need help 
getting over a relationship you feel 
like you're stuck if you feel like 
you're just not picking the right people 
and you want a best buddy a personal 
trainer for your love life make sure you 
reach out to us at 
smartdatingacademy.com schedule a 
consultation we would love to help you 
and can't wait to watch you sail into 
the sunset and become one of the love 
stories maybe you've heard midori's love 
story or Holly's love story or Andrea's 
love story or Nancy Hollis Love Story 
there's so many inspiring love stories 
in here just know that if you're 
grieving try this negative reappraisal 
and if you really want help in getting 
to the next level and finding love reach 
out to us because we are always here for 
you until next time I bid you farewell 
and I send you wishes for something 
amazing to happen to you 


Bella one of the reasons you and I hit 
it off is because we're so comfortable 
together well nobody here wants to date 
someone they're not comfortable with if 
I go on a first date with someone if I 
don't feel relaxed if it doesn't feel at 
ease I don't care what his credentials 
are I don't care how great he golfs or 
how well he tells a joke if I don't feel 
comfortable I don't want to go on 
another date and it goes in both hands 
so I believe conversation skills are an 
important part of our packaging when we 
look at ourselves and when we look at 
dating and I know it's extremely 
challenging some women are in transition 
some men are newly in the game some men 
have lost their spouse some women have 
um decided to not focus on their career 
maybe focus more on relationships so 
we're not Adept at this it's not an art 
that comes easily to all of 
us 


today I have someone amazing for you and 
this someone isn't just to someone this 
is someone who's part of the heartbeat 
of Smart dating Academy she's helped 
develop the curriculum that has coached 
you Lindsay thank you for finally 
finally putting some time on the 
calendar to do this because I couldn't 
be more excited to have you here oh 
fella 
sweet you know people ask me Bella how 
do you bring people onto your own staff 
I'm like well it's a pretty high bar I 
really always felt that my heart was 
helping put people together but I 
definitely observed some patterns over 
the years as a Matchmaker which is that 
when people come to see you they have a 
very clear criteria of what they think 
they need in a relationship and it is a 
checklist and sometimes we're able to 
get that lined up and teach people and 
they get everything they want on the 
list but they don't necessarily they 
never felt fulfilled 


a person that likes you won't leave you 
guessing why because people make time 
for the things and the people they want 
we talked about this in the last podcast 
but there are patterns and there's a 
very consistent behavior that way that 
people behave who want to be in 
relationships when I hear that somebody 
is too busy and that oh you know if I 
start hearing excuses from somebody like 
oh he's just so busy with work and he's 
just so busy and you know what he can 
only fit me in this one time this month 
I I don't I don't buy it we look at it 
is when somebody is ready to date they 
will move mountains to be with you even 
if they do have that crazy work project 
or they have something going on they 
will figure out a small pocket of time 
even if just bringing you a cup of 
coffee we have seen it over and over 
again but someone will always make time 
think about it are you ever ever ever 
too busy to communicate with someone you 
love never you prioritize it no matter 
what 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
welcome back I'm so excited to be here 
with you today whether you're listening 
in your car whether you're walking down 
the street maybe you're doing some yoga 
I'm probably not the best person to 
listen to when you're doing yoga but 
that's a whole nother story I'm really 
excited today to have our own Eileen 
Collins of the Smart dating Academy here 
with me today coach extraordinaire who 
has more CEO and coaching wisdom than I 
can even tell you about right now but 
what Eileen and I are going to talk 
about right now is something that you 
have asked for and even when we give it 
to you you ask for it again and again 
and again what we want to talk to you 
today about is signs 
that you're talking to a catfish someone 
who's disingenuous a Tinder swindler a 
fraud somebody who's just plain unsavory 
so Eileen thank you for being here today 
Bella I'm so happy to be here and I'm 
so relieved in a way that people ask for 
this again because it's so important 
it's not 
listen our clients at Smart dating 
Academy your listeners it's not like 
they're our children but think about if 
they were our child like when it is our 
children we don't just tell them some 
safety stuff once and hope it sticks 
this this is like an evolving there's 
always a new scam there's always a new 
spindle and and sadly a lot of times 
because love is a strong emotion that 
makes us all do some crazy things 
um it makes people Target yeah and 
speaking of targets historically you 
know I started Smart dating Academy in 
2009 and have seen a lot of Evolutions 
in dating and these scams but a lot of 
times we would really worry about 
catfishers and scammers really preying 
on people over 50 over 60 but as we know 
in March of this year what swept Netflix 
we did an IG show on this the Tinder 
swindler and if you have not seen this 
it's just a really good documentary to 
watch to know oh my gosh that it's not 
just people that you might consider a 
little older maybe a little bit more 
naive to scams maybe not as tech savvy 
the people the women that were swindled 
were in their 20s and they were Swimming 
by somebody who was the same age he 
really had game and he played the long 
game which probably made 
several very bright women fooled right 
he dangled 
um a fairy tale in front of them 
and he did it for a long time 
exactly and so what we're going to do is 
kind of Take You Bing Bang Boom and 
we're gonna fire hose you smart dating 
Academy Style with a whole lot of 
information in a short amount of time so 
get your notebooks out and you'll 
probably want to save this episode and 
listen to it again and again just to 
make sure that you are not potentially a 
victim no matter who you are and this is 
not just targeted to females guys if 
you're a guy listening to this we've had 
that many men also potentially get lured 
in by someone that is unsavory so I 
think you know that kind of kicks off 
the why why do we why why does this 
happen to us right we're good smart 
sentient people none of us think we're 
scammable right but if you think about 
it Evolution Hollywood 
the whole social media way that we're 
programmed we really I think okay that 
that fairy tale ending is out there my 
prince or my princess is waiting for me 
just like Disney says they would be 
right oh we are programmed to think that 
not only do we hear it you know in those 
Disney movies and the TV shows but our 
our lovely families are well meeting 
lovely families will sometimes say don't 
worry your princess out there you're 
wonderful and when the right 
guys and how many of us were programmed 
to look for somebody who could make all 
our dreams come true 
right 
and here's the key word 
he could rescue us 
rescue us like Prince Charming did for 
Cinderella right he rescued her out of 
her sad life with the evil stepmother 
and the bad stepsisters and for us maybe 
that means you know I've been struggling 
alone as a single mom for so long trying 
to make ends meet or am I good for 
nothing husband or my good for nothing 
ex-wife built me for everything I have 
and took the money I had and yada yada 
yada and suddenly someone that seems 
kind of disney-esque that says I love 
you I adore you and I will rescue you 
comes along and it appeals to our most 
Basic Instincts and let me correct 
something here as you might be thinking 
well a lot of these people are gold 
diggers I want to tell you this is 
different than gold digging okay this is 
a very deep sense of wanting to be taken 
care of that doesn't have to be 
surrounded by bags of gold it means 
rescuing and that's very different than 
wow I'd really like your house in Aspen 
that's not what we're talking about here 
and that's not why that's why fraudsters 
catfishers can be so seductive and Bella 
I love that you brought that up because 
think about to 
there's so many men's beautiful sweet 
stories sometimes for men and women 
they're lonely maybe they've lost their 
mate in a way in a tragic way in a 
normal way broken up whatever 
that doesn't make someone a bad person 
they're lonely but it can 
make them a little more vulnerable to 
scan 
100 and sometimes it is you haven't been 
out on a date in a long time and you 
haven't had to online date and you 
prematurely lost a spouse and you get 
out there and you know you just don't 
know the signs right so there's so many 
reasons so if you feel like this might 
have been you or you know somebody that 
says happen to have Grace and empathy 
for yourself or for the person that it's 
happened to because it's incredibly it 
can be really really painful in the most 
basic and brutal of ways 
so one of the things to be wary of it is 
too good to be true 
okay anybody that 
looks too good to be true is most likely 
too good to be true if you or I or 
anybody listening to this you get an 
email from somebody that looks like 
George Clooney and you're like wow I'm 
not a mall and I don't look like a mall 
but George Clooney's emailing me 
somebody that looks that in a sense out 
of the normal scope of the people that 
are messaging you right and same thing 
with guys Suddenly It's like oh my gosh 
I'm 59 years old and there's this 31 
year old hot blonde who says she loves 
the distinguished types and right 
anything that's too good to be true is 
most likely too good to be true yeah 
yeah 
um also like the photos just somehow 
don't ring right in natural for what the 
photos have been of other people you're 
matching with right maybe you know 
you're matching with somebody who's got 
like a couple of great you know normal 
looking photos and you could picture 
them in your life and with your friends 
but this person 
doesn't seem to fit in with those 
pictures 
100 and if we go back to Tinder swindler 
for a second you know Simon levia the 
brilliant Tinder swindler had pictures 
of himself his moniker was the prince of 
diamonds okay immediately gets your 
attention he's a diamond Scion and he's 
got a picture of himself with the 
Ferrari on a private plane on a yacht 
with you know all of the trappings that 
make someone look wow like who is this 
will certainly get attention right and 
so too good to be true and even if he 
did have all that money you guys or she 
if someone's posting pictures with all 
that stuff ask yourself in your gut is 
this really someone I would want to be 
with not judging but if this is this 
person's currency 
are they looking for the same thing in a 
relationship that I might be 
I I love that you called it currency 
because that's what's happening and 
that's how this happens right it's like 
a lure it's a pretty shiny lure 
extremely wealthy people 
honestly don't need on on a dating site 
an extremely wealthy person might be 
afraid they would get used for their 
money they're not likely going to lead 
with this will be me and my private 
plane right they might be something a 
little more normal right if they're 
unless they're a fraud or a fake right 
and and money becomes their currency and 
one of the things Eileen and I were 
talking about is money unfortunately for 
a lot of fraudsters catfishers becomes 
the currency that they want from you so 
along with these things right somebody 
who's flaunting their money seems too 
good to be true tied into that if 
someone is a little too curious about 
you your money your personal information 
or if they make references right to all 
the money they have but you never see 
these are red flags right and don't feel 
well protected how many times have you 
heard this one Bella why do I have to 
worry about that I don't have money and 
if you learned anything like from Tinder 
swindler even I think 
they're more than happy with you opening 
up some new accounts don't worry it's 
about credit right 
take out a payday loan it's fine I'll 
love you anyway it's just twenty five 
thousand dollars these women were built 
out of millions of dollars collectively 
and none of these women were wealthy 
women and they were scammed by a guy who 
was faking being wealthy who wasn't 
right so again it's not that we're safe 
because we think well I'm not gonna No 
One's Gonna Target me I don't have 
anything hmm 
doesn't matter because they'll what on 
the Tinder swindler he love bombed them 
okay so let's talk about this too much 
too soon grandiose gestures right and 
what did he do he literally nuclear 
bombed these women with these amazing 
trappings come with me tonight to 
Croatia on my private plane and my 
driver and my black Rolls Royce is going 
to come and pick you up and we're going 
to go and stay at the most amazing place 
and have a 28 000 course meal with every 
single thing and this is literally what 
happened right and it ended up being 
sort of fancy scheme and this was the 
first date and you're almost and what he 
did is he blood bombed them so greatly 
with so much money for about a month 
that he sort of flipped into the he he 
it's like you feel like you owe this 
person something because you've received 
so much from them so he didn't ask these 
women on day one to take out a fifty 
thousand dollar payday loan after he had 
spent 
oodles and oodles of some other woman's 
money on you Eileen if you were the 
current object that he wanted to 
ultimately scam he was lathering you up 
with every fine thing on earth taking 
money from another victim and then 
ultimately you would become the victim 
in the next month so when something 
seems too extreme too good to be true it 
is now what I want to tell you this is 
an actual story that happened with the 
client last week 
I got a call from a client and she said 
I think I've been love bumped 
and I said tell me what happened and she 
said well 
the guy I'm dating sent me a bouquet of 
roses 
once a week for the last month 
and I was like 
well let's talk more about that and so 
as I dug into it because you hear about 
love bombing it's like oh my gosh I'm 
being loved about somebody's sending me 
flowers once a week like that seems 
excessive but when they would go out 
together she said they weren't seeing 
each other as often because she had her 
kids in town and he just said to her oh 
you look kind of sad so the day after 
they would have a date he sent her a 
nice bouquet just like hey just thought 
I'd send you these because you're 
amazing once a week and I said I don't 
think you're being love bombed I think 
he's trying to make you smile and so 
they have the conversation and she was 
like oh my gosh thank goodness I have 
you or I would have broken up with him 
because I thought I was being love bomb 
that is not being love bum remember 
ladies and gentlemen if you think you're 
being love bombed remember a narcissist 
a love bomber a catfisher a fraudulent 
person 
when you bring up like hey I was 
wondering like I've never gotten flowers 
from everybody anybody once a week and 
it almost felt like a lot like tell me 
like do you send these out all the time 
like have the conversation about the 
person's intent and if that bad guys 
don't want to be questioned and they 
don't take input very well so if you 
said to him you know what I don't want 
you to spend your hard-earned money on 
me on flowers flowers die I appreciate 
the gesture let's go for a walk instead 
and that'll show me you love me if this 
is a Savory person they'll be like oh my 
gosh absolutely I just want to see you 
smile that's it that's how you 
distinguish am I being love bombed or 
not how does that person take the 
feedback and the input love 
also I do think the subject of money 
when someone's love bombing can feel out 
of the ordinary right it can just feel 
typical love bombing things happen too 
fast and it's uncomfortable I get the 
flowers once a week seemed a lot to our 
client but it would it was a lot I think 
to him too he was saying I'm doing 
something extra right I'm doing a smile 
to make you smile but with our love 
bombers they're going at a speed they're 
comfortable with we're shocked by right 
on the other end of it hey I want you to 
meet my family up for our second date 
that seems fast 
right if a moving truck a U-Haul with 
you know 17 
000 tons of hydrangeas arrives that 
might be a little weird right a little 
over the top right and then again maybe 
he's just awkward and he didn't know 
what to do and we give him the benefit 
of the doubt we're like hey you don't 
have to send a U-Haul of hydrangeas over 
anymore he's like oh my God was that too 
much it was a little much okay great but 
a narcissist a love bomber a catfisher 
will not take that feedback well they'll 
say you're ungrateful what do you mean I 
could have sent that to you know five 
other women and they would have loved 
that right that's when you know you're 
catching them yeah and there's like a 
little guess I'm a little making you 
feel badly 
um and and it seems like when it is that 
kind of love bombing 
they'll say things also it's not always 
just the gesture it's what they're 
saying that seems like you know I 
already picture us living together I've 
never met anyone like you 
so quickly we do want to hear that but 
not in the first week or two right yeah 
even in the first month you guys know 
Eileen and I did the 15-day rule Sylvia 
foti and Eileen coached Sylvia right so 
yeah no we're not looking for that in 
the first two weeks we're looking for 
that way later I mean honestly as 
awesome as you are dear listener do you 
really think after one week someone 
knows that they want to spend the rest 
of their life with you that you're the 
most amazing person that they've ever 
seen you might be the most amazing 
person they've ever spent seven days 
with non-stop however right and too much 
too soon is a red flag so if you feel 
like you're being pushed too fast try to 
slow it down and if the person reacts 
well great and if they don't you have 
somebody who's red flaggy maybe Fraud's 
Dury you never know it's just something 
you probably want to jump out of and of 
course if you have questions always 
email us about we're here to help you we 
do day a coaching we help people with 
this scenario every single day this is 
our this is what we do this we want to 
put more love into the world and keep 
you out of dumpster fire situations 
exactly keep our guard rails up one of 
the things that another kind of common 
talk about too fast things that we we've 
had many a client here is you know what 
it'll be easy let's get off the dating 
site like they rush you you maybe you've 
suggested a nice video chat and they oh 
my membership's expiring tomorrow 
right and they that's a great point that 
they my membership's expiring tomorrow 
or hey could you email me at you know 
Andy hotmail.com so we can get off the 
site yeah no not right away and somebody 
who refuses your request to do a phone 
call or a video date I don't like that 
and I get you might say to yourself I'm 
not a phone person I'm Zoom fatigue you 
know what it's time to get over it in 
the dating world people will ask you to 
do face times or video dates just to 
make sure that in three dimensions you 
look as good as your photos and your 
profile and you dear listeners should do 
exactly the same but guess what do you 
think a catfisher or a fraudster wants 
to be seen on camera no so they will 
always have an excuse as to why they 
cannot do it 
yes and the more spontaneous the more 
you'll notice they're just declining the 
call even though you've talked on the 
decline right a spontaneous let's 
FaceTime can we meet here 
yeah they don't want to do that they 
don't want to be seen right because most 
likely they're not from around here and 
it might be a different time zone where 
they are I mean there's local catfishers 
and people that are running scams but 
there's a lot that a lot of people are 
based overseas that try to do this as 
well so just keep your guard up a little 
bit and like we're saying reach out to 
us we're happy to coach you around these 
situations because there's nothing more 
important than your safety 
speaking of the people that might be in 
another country there's also 
this thing where there are certain 
people that we just have an innate trust 
for right the military are you know 
doctors police you know people in 
different jobs 
a lot of times catfishers seem to have 
those jobs and a lot of times they're 
abroad I'm in the military I'm stationed 
over here 
exactly remember 
someone oversees shouldn't be on the 
same website that you are why if they're 
overseas are they trying to schedule a 
date with you locally they ought to be 
looking in Dubai or wherever they are at 
this point and and one of the things 
like Eileen's saying they're often 
Physicians I'm Doctors Without Borders 
right I'm a surgeon I'm working for 
Habitat for Humanity I'm I work on an 
oil rig right so you respect without 
question are you without a question how 
could you even ask about him this man 
has sacrificed everything to do this out 
of the goodness of his heart right 
they get us where we're vulnerable right 
and that's how they justify the fact 
that they're not emailing you on their 
time zone oh I can't talk to you on the 
phone because I'm so busy and it's night 
when it's day so anybody that again 
looks like George Clooney says he's a 
surgeon by day supermodel by night but 
is based in in you know Ghana 
might throw up a red flag or two yeah 
for our gentlemen listeners 
a similar feel is not quite necessarily 
that they're in the service injury 
industry but it could be that their 
damsels in distress right you're going 
to save me this happened you wouldn't 
believe what's going on with me and then 
they present a scenario that's 
heart-wrenching 
oh right 
I was on my way to the airport to meet 
you and there's been a terrible car 
accident yes yeah and they've built up 
so much trust and you've talked to them 
potentially for hours and they'll say I 
can't believe I'm so stupid that I left 
my wallet at home or my wallet burned in 
the fire along with my car I just need 
you could you just wire me five thousand 
dollars and I'll pay you back as soon as 
I get on that flight to see your cute 
little face my purse was snatched at the 
airport you won't believe it I don't 
have my ID I can't come tomorrow if I 
had money I it cost this to do this and 
that to do that 
and anybody that asks you for money in 
any stage of the relationship right and 
I'm not saying if you say you know can 
we can we split the can we split 
breakfast okay that's that catfishing 
I'm saying if somebody messages you and 
says oh my gosh I'm at my daughter's 
book fair and she really wants you know 
a book and I'm so dumb I forgot my 
wallet could you just venmo the school 
what they're doing is they're kicking 
the tires on your gullibility right 
nobody should be asking you for money 
early in the game no for any reason 
honestly I still look at Mark funny when 
he died no I'm kidding 
Marcus Eileen's husband of 30 years 30 
years yes this September yeah amazing 
right exactly you're right when Andy my 
husband of 25 years asked me if I have 
cash I'm like why where's yours what are 
you thinking yeah are you trying to 
capture yeah we don't want to make 
people 
a naturally suspicious however 
when households haven't been joined when 
you're not exclusive when when you don't 
really know someone 
asking for something that makes you 
uncomfortable whether it be money 
or pictures 
or inappropriate pictures or money 
those things do make you uncomfortable 
hopefully 
hopefully and remember a lot of this 
will be built in some intense 
conversations in the beginning you'll 
feel like they want to get to know 
everything about you and especially if 
you've been lonely maybe you've lost a 
spouse you've broken up with a boyfriend 
or a girlfriend you know you're coming 
out of divorce where you were verbally 
abused all the time and suddenly 
somebody's loading up your proverbial 
coffee cup with words of affirmation 
interest they want to know every little 
detail about you to the point where 
you're like oh my gosh I've never felt 
so seen before I've never felt so 
interesting I've never had somebody just 
want to know every little tidbit about 
me yeah yeah 
I mean 
the hardest part about all the things 
that we're talking about is that it 
plays on emotions when we use behaviors 
that are attached to emotions 
it's really a tricky bag it's it's not a 
great idea right 
not at all clearly we want to be using 
our heads and not our heart 
exactly and trust your intuition if 
something seems off most likely it is 
off ask people around you whose opinions 
you trust right ask people is this weird 
people will tell you yeah that sounds 
weird to me I don't like that that 
sounds a little sus it and and 
trust your gut I love what you just said 
there's a really famous book and I can't 
remember the author but it's called The 
Gift of fear and it talks about how when 
you have like the hairs on the back of 
your neck standing up 
sometimes it's because you've seen 
something that you're maybe so quickly 
your mind can't put it together you 
don't even realize you saw something you 
just recognize this feeling 
um and it is something sometimes it's 
more than intuition sometimes it's 
something you've noticed you've seen 
there's a reason your gut is 
kind of trying to give you a warning oh 
100 and that just triggered my memory 
into one of the things I wanted to share 
with you is when people are you know 
asking you all about you like oh my gosh 
I want to get to know you what city were 
you born in right when people start 
sounding like they're asking you 
security questions that your bank asks 
you to set up sort of hurdles so you 
know it's like what's your mother's 
maiden name what city were you born in 
what was the make of your first car what 
was your first pet's name what was the 
first house that you grew up in if 
someone seems like they're asking you 
security questions right you're just 
gonna wanna oh my God it's hilarious but 
the thing is they certainly won't ask 
them all like that so we could just sit 
back and go okay 
basically it can go like this you know 
oh my God 
you're from Florida what part blah blah 
blah were you born like it just start do 
you know the this family well what's 
your mother's wait your dad's name was 
this but what was your mom's name it 
just can sound 
like they're natural so natural 
do you have a dog now what's his name 
right oh my gosh what was your first 
dog's name I know your dog's now is Coco 
what was your very first pet Eileen 
right yeah and I just I can't set it for 
a podcast well like a [ __ ] right 
exactly if you want a catfish Eileen and 
take her out on a Tinder swindler date 
she's right there for you you got it so 
having all of it 
oh 
the thing is like with I I love that you 
brought the last points up especially 
because 
the the advantage that 
fraudsters and swindlers and near do 
Wells have is they have a mission they 
know they have a goal and they know what 
they're looking for and they know what 
they have intent 
crimes of this sort are very similar to 
crimes of any sort which is most of them 
are crimes of opportunity 
oh that's so well said so well said and 
you know one of the tips that just came 
to mind as well 
as we're going through these and they're 
so closely related and I know they seem 
like common sense right but sometimes 
guys common sense is the least common of 
the census yeah right when we're lured 
in when we're when we feel like we're 
seeing someone that is attractive to us 
and we have dating app fatigue and we're 
like oh my God finally finally here 
comes someone I can tell you 
um the story of a client of ours that 
had a home in Florida and then a home in 
Arizona and she was hilarious widowed 
whip smart like c-suite level and she 
said oh my gosh and she was in Florida 
at this time and she's like oh my gosh 
Bella finally someone amazing and I was 
like oh my gosh tell me about him and so 
she said oh he's great 
um he's super cute 
um and then as we got to talking 
something in my own gut was like okay 
something's off and this was a new class 
client and I said well what's his last 
name she says Ah I was going to ask you 
about that I Googled him his first and 
last name and there's nothing I said 
nothing she says not a thing 
so being the c-suite you know not shy 
person that she is she said to him hey 
buddy I tried to Google you and nothing 
comes up 
what's that about 
he did not miss a beat and said listen 
I have a private business I am a 
high-end jewelry maker and that's why my 
clients are super private and I work by 
referral only I don't even have a 
storefront but I'm gonna send you some 
of the things I've designed 
and she sends them to me she's like 
aren't these pretty 
and some of them pretty I'm like these 
look like they were from these are from 
like the Queen's Personal Collection 
nice I was like I don't like any of this 
at this point so she says to him okay 
you know my you know I don't know that 
you're telling me the truth she's very 
out there and his pictures looked again 
too good like almost like super like 
actors headshots so I said his pictures 
don't look good one of these came up on 
a stock photo site 
so when he said oh you know what 
somebody must have taken my photo here's 
five current photos of me he sent her 
five selfies that looked exactly like 
that guy and that threw even me off the 
scent I was like oh my God is this guy 
legit like one in his car one in front 
of his house like that looked just like 
the stock photo but they were clearly 
cell photo phones and I was like 
oh my God like 
is this guy really legit am I being too 
paranoid but then when it actually came 
time to meet for the date guess what he 
never showed he didn't show 
he didn't show right and so so it goes 
to show he was fraudulent but they get 
trickier and more crafty I mean I second 
guessed myself yeah when I saw those 
selfies I was like oof maybe I'm just 
too paranoid he had all the other signs 
and our client was like oh look at these 
Jewels I'm like those ain't real right 
those are first those are some stock 
photos from like the Queen's jewelry I 
love that and there can be other things 
that should feel 
maybe we could notice but we hear things 
that make us feel differently like maybe 
there's a crazy age difference right 
maybe you're making allowances for it 
because you're you know it just sounds 
so good he's so into me I can't believe 
someone that looks like this or seems 
like this 
you know how many men Bella do we know 
of that have been catfished by a very 
stunning much younger woman 
it's incredibly seductive right for any 
guy even the ones that you know quote 
unquote know better and they'll tell us 
like hey you guys someone that's 19 just 
messaged me we're like what 
and I'm like that's a dude somewhere in 
a call center it's not a 19 year old 
that looks like you know you know that 
looks like America's top model like love 
you you're a handsome guy but this is 
not happening that's not happening right 
we're not looking for a mail-order bride 
and I don't even think this is a mail 
order bride so let's just delete and 
block and that's fine and that brings up 
another thing that you people get so 
bent out of shape about and I look at 
this as a blessing Eileen I'm sure 
you've seen this with our clients where 
you're messaging back and forth with 
somebody and then suddenly the next day 
it says profile unavailable yes yes okay 
that probably means that the site has 
said 
this person is a fraud yes 
and they've been pulled off of the site 
and so often we want to say oh my gosh 
there was one normal person and I was 
messaging with them and now their 
profile's unavailable it's like someone 
caught that person be grateful move on 
it's not about you it's not about you 
don't personalize that stuff okay if the 
profiles are unavailable so 
um you know and I think that 
if you're still on the fence is this 
person legit or not try to give them a 
spontaneous call 
a spontaneous Face Time 
see if they pick up right now if you 
give me a spontaneous face time I might 
not pick up because I might not look 
socially presentable but I will text you 
and say I look like something to Cat 
Dragged In let me put on a berry lip and 
I'll call you I'll FaceTime you in 10 
seconds 
I love that you only have to put on a 
berry lip I'm like I will be changing 
out of the coffee I spilled all over 
myself but yes meet you there right 
exactly I'm going to show you from my 
chin up don't get me wrong right exactly 
if you catch me on an ambush FaceTime 
but 
um that's the only reason I wouldn't 
pick up an instant face time is because 
I look like hell but in general if it's 
someone you don't know and you're being 
if you feel like you're getting the 
heebie-jeebies about this person 
try it you got nothing to lose exactly 
exactly go with your gut and if you're 
really 
just not sure what's going on 
message Bella right 100 and listen 
catfishers fraudsters do we think they 
keep their promises and their 
commitments never they don't they don't 
so if somebody's inconsistent unreliable 
ghost you stands you up remember you 
have dodged a bullet so I told you we 
were gonna fire hose you today with so 
many tips so much information around 
this I hope that you enjoyed this and 
please 
put more love into the universe share 
this episode with someone who needs to 
hear it someone who has a bad picker 
someone who is susceptible to this maybe 
it's your mom maybe it's your dad who's 
getting into dating maybe it's your 
brother your neighbor your cousin your 
colleague send this episode to someone 
and I'll tell you Eileen Lindsay and I 
did an IG live right after the Tinder 
swindler came out and we talked about 
you know the military service people and 
I said anybody that says they're on an 
oil rig is potentially you know no bueno 
yeah I had a girl that messaged me on 
Instagram after she watched the show and 
she says you have no idea I think your 
IG live just saved my life my father was 
a an oil rig employee and I got a 
message from a guy that worked on an oil 
rig and I've been communicating with him 
we were planning to meet up he had every 
red flag that you delineated thank you 
for letting me know this and guess how 
old she was 32. guys this can happen to 
us at any age 
I hope you love this if you do give us a 
great rating write something great about 
the podcast there's nothing there's no 
better gift than you can give to Eileen 
and me than sharing this rating it and 
saying something lovely about your true 
feelings we're not asking you to blow 
smoke just put your feelings down 
because we love you and we are here for 
you so until next week 
stay out of catfishers stay away from 
fraudsters and keep spreading the love 
in psychotic optimism we leave you for 
this week thank you 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love I couldn't be 
more excited to introduce my friend this 
rock star superstar beautiful peaceful 
ascetic human being Arielle Ford Arielle 
it's so great to see you oh Bella I 
can't wait till we can go to dinner 
again Zoom is okay but we could have so 
much more fun in person and we did so I 
know you guys are all going to be 
jealous thinking God you got to have 
dinner with Arielle Ford I did and we 
went to my favorite restaurant called 
Summer House Santa Monica and I the 
minutes turned into hours and it was 
just so fun and yes yes yes to a second 
live date Miss food absolutely okay I 
don't need to give you an introduction 
because everybody knows who you are 
Arielle is an amazing best-selling 
author speaker relationship expert I 
consider her a mentor a friend someone 
who's been so generous and good and 
today we want to be generous and just 
talk all about love you guys we're going 
to talk about what like finding love 
keeping love so let's just hop into this 
Arielle 
tell me and I know this is a big 
question it's a giant question it's a 
question that's been pondered for 
Millennia by the wisest Minds on the 
planet what 
in your definition What is love 
well that is the big question and you 
know most people at least the women 
single women I come in contact with 
think that love is a feeling 
love is that being swept away feeling of 
being in love 
and what that experience is is Nature's 
greatest drug high it's your brain on 
drugs it's your brain cascading 
oxytocin and dopamine and adrenaline and 
lots of other hormones I can't even 
describe 
but it isn't love right it's this great 
feeling it's Nature's trick to get us to 
bond and procreate procreate and keep 
the species going and it doesn't last 
it's good for it's got a shelf life of 
six months to three years and then it's 
pretty much game over 
and in the process of finding love and 
keeping love the most important thing to 
really begin to understand 
is that love is not a feeling love is a 
behavior 
love is a choice love is an action love 
is a decision love is a way of being and 
even if you end up with the most perfect 
soulmate in the universe 
there are days when you're going to hate 
them 
and it doesn't mean that you don't love 
them 
so coming to the understanding that real 
mature adult love is behavior is 
critical to the success of happening a 
lot you know having a long-term happy 
committed partnership 
so that's sort of the big picture of 
what love is oh I couldn't agree with 
you more and you brought back to mind 
when you were saying love is a decision 
I remember being 21 years old in the 
middle of a toxic quote-unquote love 
build chemistry filled anxiety-filled 
butterfly filled roller coaster of a 
relationship and my best friend 
at the University of Illinois her name 
is Karen maybe she's listening she 
handed me a book called The World lost 
traveled 
and in that book it said exactly what 
you're saying and those words changed my 
life love is not a feeling it is a 
decision it is not a noun it is a verb 
right and I thought oh my gosh and that 
started my quest to understand what is 
love how can I love how can I love 
better and who would be worthy of this 
kind of love and a year later I use that 
as part of my process to find Andy and 
we met we met in college but I didn't 
realize he was right under my nose for 
so many years and making that decision 
to say this is a great human being 
helped the chemistry to develop and May 
17th we'll be celebrating our 25-year 
wedding anniversary so you guys listen 
to what This Love Guru Arielle is saying 
love is an action it is a decision it is 
a behavior it is not a feeling that 
feeling that Hollywood and Bollywood and 
Harlequin and social media as spouses to 
us said and if your picker's broken and 
if this is the stuff you're doing it's 
not necessarily your fault this is what 
we're told there should be love at first 
sight instant chemistry and she's 
telling you that is Nature's Way of 
tricking us into attachments yeah 
totally totally and I so wish I had 
understood this earlier and I wouldn't 
have suffered all the stress and anxiety 
and heartbreak and Desperation that I 
went through earlier but you just said 
something that triggered something for 
me you said love at first sight 
now love at first sight is a myth I 
think most thinking people understand 
this however I have something that I 
call Love Before First Sight ooh what is 
that or First Sight Okay so 
in quantum physics there are a couple of 
things that 
most people agree upon the first one is 
that there is no time there's no past 
and there's no future there's only this 
now moment and also in Quantum science 
we know that we all live in a field we 
all live in this integrative field where 
we're already connected to everything 
and everybody and there's different 
words for this they even sometimes call 
it the butterfly effect you know if a 
butterfly flaps it swings in the Amazon 
it has Ripple effects in North America 
that sort of thing so with love before 
first sight I invented for myself a 
thing that I call the golden cord 
feelingization and it's something I give 
away for free on my website and what 
this is It's a closed-eyed process where 
I take you from your head to your heart 
and we go deep into our heart and we 
focus on feelings of love and 
appreciation and gratitude and we get 
into the scientific state known as heart 
coherence and when we're in heart 
coherence our electromagnetic field 
which is measurable is actually going 
out 25 feet beyond our body 
so wow what I ask you to do in this 
golden court feelingization is we drop 
into our heart we go into a state of 
heart coherence and then using our 
imagination we see a golden cord of 
loving light coming from our heart going 
into the field and Into the Heart of our 
beloved now we don't know his or her 
name we don't know how or when or where 
we're going to meet them in 3D world but 
on this unseen plane in the field we 
connect with our golden cord into their 
heart and we begin a conversation with 
them 
in our mind we begin this conversation 
I'm open willing and available for you 
to find me for us to find each other 
and we start the relationship we have 
loved before First Sight and it's a 
daily practice it only takes eight 
minutes but you start by talking to them 
so that when you do finally meet in the 
real world there's already a connection 
established 
golden cord realization 
it's just a play on the word 
visualization because we all know how to 
visualize but manifestation happens in 
the heart not the head so on my website 
it's soulmatesecret.com there's a tab 
called free stuff just go to free stuff 
and Hunt around and you'll find the 
golden chord feelingization it's there 
it's free and you don't have to be in 
the state of wanting and waiting for 
love because there is no deficit of love 
in the world although there's lots of 
women running around going I got no love 
I got no love you know I got proof I got 
no love I got no dates and it's not true 
we all have more than enough love 
already and one of the fastest ways to 
really know that as your truth is to 
have another daily practice that um that 
I call the love gratitude practice where 
you spend a few moments with your eyes 
closed and then you see in your mind's 
eye all the people that you already know 
love you your parents your siblings your 
neighbors your co-workers your cats your 
dogs and you just give a little 
miniature prayer of gratitude mom loves 
me dad loves me sister loves me best 
friend loves me and you fill yourself up 
with all this love that you already have 
and then you're not running around like 
lunatic with a love deficit thing going 
on because you've now filled yourself up 
with all the abundance of love you 
already have 
I love that so much and that gets back 
to this love is not a feeling when we 
say I have a deficit of love I don't 
have anxiety I don't have butterflies 
I'm not feeling the power of lust at 
this moment we have all of the love that 
we need and we love ourselves that's 
amazing 
um yeah you're so right I love that 
practice I'm gonna start doing that that 
is really I know I'm doing a lot of time 
I especially do it when I'm in the 
bathtub you know I just I'll just be 
relaxing in the bathtub just allowing 
myself to call in all the love that I 
have whether it's on this planet 
you know or in in the in the ethers 
wherever it is because even though our 
ancestors are out of body they still 
love us you know and if you're single 
you can call on them to help you bring 
in your beloved soulmate life partner 
because they're you know they're hanging 
out there they want to make you happy 
but you have to invite them so if you're 
going to invite them make sure they have 
good taste all right you don't want a 
person who had abusive relationships but 
you have help on the other side as well 
Arielle tell me speaking of bringing 
your soulmate into your life how did you 
meet your amazing soulmate Brian tell 
the story because this is one of the 
best stories I've heard well I woke up 
one morning at the age of 43 and I was 
lying in my bed with my eyes closed and 
I was feeling around the bed in search 
of my 25 pound cat who wasn't there 
and all I felt was this empty expanse of 
bed and while I felt how empty the bed 
was I had this thought was oh [ __ ] I 
forgot to get married 
and I started thinking how is it 
possible I'm 43 I live in Beverly Hills 
I have a successful business I have a 
million friends I have this incredible 
life and yet I'm single what's wrong 
with this picture and I quickly realized 
a couple of things one all my time and 
energy was being spent on building my 
career 
and two I had never really placed an 
order with the universe of what I wanted 
my soulmate to be I had a long list of 
what I didn't want them to be but I had 
no Clarity on what the heart traits and 
qualities were that my soul was most 
calling for 
and so I did a couple of things I got 
out of bed I made a list it was nine 
pages long nine nine pages of every 
prayer process and ritual I had ever 
done to manifest my career and then I 
started thinking about like you know how 
do I most want to feel when I'm with 
this person not like how tall is he or 
how much money does he have how do I 
want to feel and a couple of things 
became very clear to me I knew at that 
point that the most important quality my 
soulmate needed to have was generosity 
not with his wallet I was making plenty 
of money I needed someone who was going 
to be generous with their love time 
affection and attention 
I knew that my soul needed somebody for 
whom I would be the center of their 
Universe because my history was I was 
always going after the captain of the 
universe types the people who were even 
more ambitious than I was and those guys 
don't have any time or energy to give 
anything there's you know most of them 
are narcissists they're all about what's 
in it for me and even though I wanted 
somebody who was successful and 
accomplished I also wanted somebody who 
would you know basically put me on a 
pedestal and worship me I wanted to be 
worshiped so 
that was an important thing to have and 
then I made a soulmate wish list which 
was a ridiculous 48 items long 
the 46 of the 48 uh but it's still wow 
it was still too long and then I just 
started doing this practice the love 
before first sight I decided that he 
wasn't missing I knew that the my desire 
to be partnered came out of some 
knowingness that I was meant to be 
partnered it was just a matter of 
becoming visible and connected to my 
partner he was not missing but I was 
missing from the picture I needed to 
show up and call him in so every single 
day at sunset 
I had a love altar I would sit in front 
of my love altar I would put on these um 
chants these nuns doing these 
interesting chants that I like listening 
to and then I would use my imagination 
and I would talk to my soulmate and I 
didn't know his name 
and then sometime later I couldn't tell 
you exactly how long it took because I 
wasn't planning on writing a book about 
it back then but I'm guessing somewhere 
nine months to a year through a series 
of crazy synchronicities I ended up at a 
business meeting and there was Brian and 
the moment I saw him I had this sort of 
knowingness that my life was about to 
change the moment he saw me he freaked 
out because he had seen my face and his 
dreams for weeks leading up to our 
meeting and so that's the the really 
really short version of how we met but 
just to add one more thing to it we got 
engaged three weeks after we met but we 
didn't get married for another year 
because I'm a student of Dr Pat Allen 
who always drilled it into us that you 
have to know somebody for a full year 
before you commit your life to them so 
we were engaged quickly and then a year 
later we ended up having three weddings 
and our 24th anniversary is next month 
oh my gosh we're in a similar trajectory 
I love that 24 and 25. what a beautiful 
story and he had seen your face in his 
dream so you were both doing and maybe 
you didn't call it this then but you're 
golden cord like yeah yeah I didn't call 
it that for a long time I just I just 
want I believe that we have that 
recognition because we'd already been in 
a relationship on the other planes for a 
long time there was already that 
connection there 
wow and if any of you haven't if you 
have not seen arielle's husband he's 
quite a lovely human being I have yet to 
meet him but he certainly is very hunky 
in all of his friends yes he is well 
he's you know he's really interesting 
because I call him my uh 
my heart chakra on legs 
because it's his belief that his purpose 
on Earth is to make sure that everybody 
who comes in contact with him has the 
experience of being loved 
so if somebody asked me one day who's 
your Guru and I started thinking about 
it I was like well Brian's my Guru I 
want to be more like him because that I 
do not wake up in the morning thinking 
about how can I make people feel loved 
those are not my first thoughts but 
they're Brian's first thoughts so I sort 
of get the the halo effect of his loving 
nature well tell us what's on your 
coffee mug 
so my coffee mug 
says on the back I'm mostly peace love 
and light and a little go [ __ ] yourself 
okay 
description of me you know a mic drop 
right there Mike Mike dropped so 
um let me let me ask you this do you 
think how many soul mates do you think 
we can have in a lifetime 
uh I think the numbers totally unlimited 
yeah but that also comes from what my 
definition is I believe a soulmate is 
first and foremost somebody you can 
completely be yourself with somebody 
with whom you share unconditional love 
and when you look into their eyes you 
have the experience of being home so the 
truth is we already have dozens hundreds 
or thousands of soul mates and you know 
we get to choose a romantic soulmate to 
be our life partner and there is more 
than just one of those possibilities 
this whole mashugana thing we each only 
get one big love in a lifetime it's just 
a big fat lie it is not true there's no 
shortage of love at all 
but there is a shortage of though is 
women choosing a life partner based on 
their feelings okay that Beatles song 
All You Need Is Love 
not you love is an important piece of it 
but in order to have a happy sustainable 
long-term committed partnership you need 
to be married to your best friend you 
need to have compatibility and 
connection and good communication and 
most importantly you have to have a 
shared vision for the future you have to 
be in agreement on a bunch of stuff 
because as I said earlier there will be 
days when those loving feelings are not 
there and they'll be replaced with some 
really ugly negative feelings and you 
have to choose to love them anyway or as 
uh Dr Laurel and said oh my God I Dr 
Laura and I are like so far apart 
politically but I love listening to her 
and one day she was giving this caller 
so much grief and she's the woman was 
complaining about something her husband 
was doing and Dr Laurie says to her I 
want you to imagine that you're in a 
court of law you're the defense attorney 
and your husband is the defendant and 
you now have to convince the judge and 
the jury of their innocence and explain 
their behavior go and I thought how 
brilliant is that imagine if you were 
going to be your partner's defense 
attorney and you had to get in there and 
really understand you know why they're 
acting out the way they are why they're 
behaving and of course you know their 
history you can probably figure it out 
you know you inadvertently press some 
button and they'll you know their hair 
is on fire be their defense attorney be 
their best friend and choose someone for 
God's sakes choose someone who's going 
to take a bullet for you and be your 
best friend 
100 it's funny you know this gets back 
to I always say choose an elevator 
person right and this I know we've 
talked about this on the show before and 
this comes off of my October Ted talk 
about how we especially women in the 
case study I talked about and and I I 
made a joke and it wasn't even a joke I 
opened up the Ted Talk I said I work 
with you know I've worked with thousands 
of people to help them find love and 
what do you think the number one thing 
that every woman says to me when I say 
tell me about your dream guy what is he 
and the answer ubiquitously is tall he's 
taller than me ideally he's over six 
feet if you could see Arielle right now 
oh my God in her hands right and and 
here's the thing ladies gentlemen if 
you're listening to this understand if 
you've been doing this stuff and you're 
what I call your picker if your 
relationship picker is broken it's kind 
of not your fault right because we're 
dating from our caveman brains we're 
looking for someone who's you know the 
big Burly caveman that can protect the 
Village from Marauders and hunt down the 
Buffalo and bring the big buffalo home 
and and so when you look at and for men 
it's the same way for men that are 
looking for women I want someone younger 
than me who's hourglass shape why 
because until the year 1900 we were 
living until we were 30 years old so if 
you were younger than me kind of nubile 
looking had good hips I was caveman 
Bella was kind of like you know you look 
like you could probably deliver eight 
kids six of them are probably gonna die 
but you know let's have a go at this 
right even before we had language so 
when people tell me well I can't choose 
who I'm attracted to yes you can yes you 
can yes you can there's a reason why the 
divorce rate in India is only 10 percent 
right arranged marriage is still a thing 
there's something to be said for having 
the parents be able to select somebody 
that has the same background and culture 
and values and then the chemistry Grows 
Right but if you're choosing based on 
the butterflies you're screwed you're 
totally screwed I can't tell you how 
many people who have great sex every 
night get divorced right great sex is no 
indicator of a long-term relationship 
right but knowing that somebody shares 
your values is going to be there to hold 
your hand on the good times and the bad 
times who actually wants to be your 
cheerleader you know there's there's 
scientific proof now that the people who 
live the longest happiest lives are 
married to their best friends 
[Music] 
Harvard did a 75-year study on this it 
wasn't the richest men that lived the 
longest it wasn't you know the most 
athletic it wasn't the tallest it was 
the ones with the best relationships 
yeah did you know Bella that that single 
and divorced men die seven years earlier 
than married men 
amazing amazing it probably hopefully 
happily married men badly married men 
but even the badly married men still 
have somebody looking 
they still have companionship 
yeah you're you're right and about the 
arranged marriage thing you've got I 
don't think I've ever shared this before 
in you know on this show my parents met 
on a Sunday Sunday April 20th they were 
engaged Thursday April 24th and they 
were married 72 hours later Pat Allen 
would not have any of this they were 
married 72 hours later and they'll be 
married 53 years has it been easy hell 
no they got married they emigrated they 
didn't know each other they're now U.S 
citizens and but in India what they say 
it's it's commitment first then love yes 
you will thought my mom used to tell my 
high school friends my mom was probably 
a dating coach without even knowing it 
she said girls let me tell you something 
and she was talking about spending time 
with bad guys that weren't worth our 
time if you live with a toad long enough 
you will learn to love that toad 
basically like God and so Renu became 
famous about if you live with the child 
long enough you're going to learn to 
love that tone everyone's like oh my God 
he's a child get out of the relationship 
so so there's there's a lot of history 
and there's a lot of sage wisdom in Old 
cultures the Jewish culture the Indian 
culture so many of our cultures but yes 
it is and we have so much of this stuff 
the other way around and I hope that you 
guys I hope that you listening to this 
whether you're walking to work or you're 
driving or you're brushing your teeth 
that this is setting in with you I 
married my best friend my best friend 
who had been my best friend for six 
years and I dated 
a bunch of people that you know some 
were good guys some were toads for sure 
this is probably why my mom was 
lecturing all of us on toads and 
ultimately I'll tell you what at the end 
of the day he will say this as the man 
what carries this relationship through 
is this deeply rooted friendship that we 
have with each other because we have a 
shared history we have shared values we 
want the same things for our lives when 
we differ with each other which is often 
on a daily basis we know nobody's going 
to throw the microwave at the other 
person nobody's going to Screech out of 
the driveway and come back seven days 
later right we know how to navigate that 
conflict because we navigate it like 
we're still friends right and and you're 
a team right you took sacred vows you 
made agreements in front of God 
goddesses and the entire Pantheon of 
everything right that you are going to 
be all in and that's the other thing 
especially in the Western World people 
don't really get it's you know we're so 
disposable you know it's like oh if it 
doesn't work out I'll get divorced I'll 
give you some really frightening 
statistics so we all know that the 
American first marriage divorce rate is 
50 and that's been pretty steady for a 
long time what most people don't know is 
that 62 percent of second marriages and 
71 percent of third marriages end in 
divorce so just thinking the grass is 
going to be greener or it's going to be 
better somewhere else no the truth is 
finding the soul mates the easy part 
learning how to live with them is a 
whole different different thing and then 
when you're single you can't even 
imagine you know because you have this 
thing oh we're going to live happily 
ever after you're going to live 
Ever After yes and you're going to 
choose the happy part you're going to 
learn how to be happy you're going to 
learn how to communicate you're going to 
learn how to compromise but first you 
have to agree to be all in you have to 
just say okay I've made this spell I'm 
taking this ride I'm having this 
commitment 
you know and then do what it takes to 
make it work because it is worth it I 
mean there's nothing better than you 
know knowing that there's somebody in 
the world to be a witness to your life 
who's who cares about your emotional and 
physical safety as much or more than you 
do 
100 
someone who has your back at all times 
right even when they might not want to 
even when you're in a fight you know 
that they're going to be the defense 
attorney to your defendant right exactly 
I love that and you know that's such a 
great thing you've got to be all in 
right and have somebody that has your 
back so if you had to say you know is 
there an unknown secret to relationship 
success that you want everyone to know 
yes yes and this is from 
the guru of marriage Dr John gottman who 
is the absolute Godfather of everything 
needs to be known about marriage and he 
says that every single couple every 
couple has a minimum of nine 
irreconcilable differences these are 
things you're never ever going to agree 
on and it's not a barrier to having a 
happy relationship so the most common 
ones are Sex and Money you want it once 
a month he wants it twice a day you know 
money one person's a spender one's a 
saver one person's always on time one's 
always late one's a clean freak 
perfectionist neat freak the other one's 
a messy border slob and this is normal 
but we live like there's something wrong 
and we're constantly trying to change 
them and you know it's not about 
changing anybody it's about two things 
one is learning how to come up with 
Creative Solutions you know creating a 
win-win situa Asian out of something 
that looks impossible 
and sometimes manipulations involved in 
a moment manipulation's okay you know 
and the other one is practicing what I 
call the art of wabi-sabi love and 
wabi-sabi is the ancient Japanese 
aesthetic of finding Beauty and 
Perfection and imperfection 
because we're all imperfect beings 
trying to have perfection in every area 
of Our Lives we want our homes to look 
perfect we want our kids to be perfect 
we want to be perfect we especially want 
our mates to be perfect and it's never 
going to happen there is no such thing 
as Perfection but could we learn to live 
with good enough you know could we learn 
to be creative and have Creative 
Solutions 
um 
you know I was talking to horrible 
Hendricks about this one day the other 
God of marriage and I I sit and we were 
talking about Creative Solutions and I 
said I said well harvell give me an 
example from your own life about 
creative solution because at the moment 
I wasn't really getting it and he said 
to me he said sure he said my favorite 
thing in life is to wake up in the 
morning get behind the we wheel of a 
vehicle and drive all day and he said 
Helen's favorite thing in life is to sit 
in the living room and either do her uh 
knitting or her embroidery and if she 
has to leave the house she wants to know 
how quickly she can get back home and I 
said okay well that sounds like an 
impossible situation he said no problem 
we bought an RV I'm always driving she's 
always home 
fantastic 
I love that right and that comes from 
that desire to be each other's person 
and and what I want to clarify to you 
dear listeners if you're listening to 
this what Ariel and I are assuming 
when we're talking about this person 
your soul mate your your golden cord you 
know GHQ person what that this is a good 
human being that if somebody is treating 
you badly doesn't have your back is 
throwing down red flags is criticizing 
you maligning you cheating on you 
hitting you like doing any of those bad 
things we're not saying stay with this 
and commit to this and be all into this 
we're assuming right now that you have 
found this juicy amazing human being 
that loves you unconditionally and you 
love this person unconditionally right 
if this is more the Renu Gandhi toad 
we're not telling you stay there and 
figure your way out from the red flags 
and just you know make it work I mean 
look they're all good relationships are 
going to have those as Ariel said nine 
irreconcilable differences but those 
differences shouldn't be differences 
that hurt you physically or emotionally 
to your core right you need to be we all 
do all human beings have this one number 
one core need which is to feel 
emotionally and physically safe Maslow 
is hierarchy that's number one if you 
don't feel emotionally and physically 
safe you need to leave you need to get 
out especially if there are children 
right so the caveat with with wabi-sabi 
love is that you can't find beauty and 
perfection in something that's broken 
you can find beauty and perfection in an 
imperfection oh he leaves wet towels on 
the floor all the time you know he 
doesn't do this or he doesn't do that 
there are ways to overlook certain 
things and pick your battles but if 
there's abuse or active addiction or bad 
behavior 
you got to get out and get professional 
help before you decide if you're ever 
going back in 
absolutely and and to that point uh it 
when Arielle quoted those divorce 
statistics what ends up happening is 
even though as human beings you're a 
smart person you're listening to this 
podcast you want to hear what Arielle 
has to say and what I have to say even 
though you have the intellect you may be 
a Perpetual student of ours of the 
universe of love but what happens is 
something more Insidious human beings 
are creatures of habit and we do what's 
comfortable for US versus even what we 
know is intellectually right what we 
would tell our best friend to do we can 
tend to have what we call regression to 
the mean right you go back to what 
you've done on average and if you have a 
history of choosing people that are bad 
for you that are red flaggy that are 
abusive in some way shape or form put 
some guard rails around you and get help 
because we don't want you to end up in 
that 60 two percent second divorce rate 
or 73 or 74 or 70 100 percent third 
divorce rate you need to get some help 
and support around this the beauty is is 
sometimes for so many of us it can take 
a village to find love and just exhale 
and say it's okay if I need help with 
this because I'll tell you what I grew 
up with this poster in my house and I 
know you guys have heard this before on 
this show that my my chemical 
engineering dad put up on the wall and 
it's the 21 rules for success by H 
Jackson Brown Jr rule number one says 
marry the right person this one decision 
will determine ninety percent of your 
happiness or ninety percent of your 
misery 
it takes a village sometimes to find 
this person if you didn't have good 
active role models for you Mom and Dad 
that role modeled in a lovely way what a 
healthy happy relationship look like 
hell how many of us had that most of us 
did not how many of us dated the right 
people right away right out of the womb 
when we were in high school or college 
not many of us some of us lucked into it 
some of us did a lot of work it's okay 
to seek help around this that is why 
people like us exist this isn't natural 
it requires a lot of work and just know 
that and don't beat yourself up and love 
yourself the way you would love your 
best friend and say okay maybe this is 
something that I need help to stay out 
of that 50 62 and 71 divorce statistic 
right you know and and sir I'm a big 
believer in therapy you know absolutely 
I think therapy is absolutely critical 
and necessary and it's great to have a 
professional who is another set of eyes 
who can point out your crazy behavior to 
you and get you to do other stuff the 
other thing is is that is that if we 
grew up if our early childhood years 
were in chaos right that feels normal 
that's comfortable that's home for us 
and then we meet a secure type who's a 
nice guy and we're not having these wild 
up and downs with emotion and you think 
there's no chemistry and it's boring 
when in fact you know this is a rock 
star this is somebody you could spend 
your life with but again it's because 
you're counting on the feelings right 
you're looking to your feelings to 
determine is this the best I can do for 
a life partner right so you need to be 
choosing people on their capacity their 
capacity to love their capacity to give 
their capacity to live as their word to 
be responsible to be trustable and that 
doesn't happen that's not love at first 
sight you don't open the door and go oh 
six two handsome yeah I choose you right 
but in the meantime they've got three 
other girlfriends and 17 kids from other 
women and you know but you're just gonna 
step over that I don't think so yeah no 
no you can't do that and remember you 
can choose who you're attracted to and 
if you do have attachment issues right 
that is it's serious it's probably the 
number one most important thing that we 
help our clients do in date coaching and 
relationship coaching you know we have 
this Workshop called fix your picker 
right which really helps people 
understand the dysfunction kind of how 
our reptilian brains are wired and what 
kinds of choices were you know we have 
the most proclivity to make and and 
after that Workshop what we do with our 
clients and I know you do the same is 
getting in the weeds and really saying 
when you say this person is boring I'm 
gonna make you go out on a third date 
with this person maybe a fourth date and 
maybe a fifth date it may be an eighth 
day because when you have someone 
sitting at the other side of the Seesaw 
from you saying this is good for you you 
don't know this yet because you've been 
in role roller coaster relationships 
since you were born we can't choose our 
families of origin and you've tried to 
replicate that feeling of excitement 
which leads to high highs and low lows 
sometimes it takes a therapist a coach a 
best friend someone to help you 
understand what good actually is and 
it's not your fault you just haven't 
been able to be witness to good yet but 
I promise you as part of psychotic 
optimism ladies and gentlemen if you 
haven't had that love yet you're going 
to do your golden core cord 
feelingization and you're going to know 
that great love exists for me it's out 
there it's a when it's not an if and all 
I have to do is date like hell to find 
this person we're guaranteeing you 
between Arielle and me she says your 
love is out there I'm saying your love 
is out there we're both saying all you 
have to do is go out there and call them 
in and find them isn't it's exciting I'm 
so hopeful for you yeah yeah you know 
and and people like to set themselves up 
for fail you know uh 
I actually believe there's there are 
some people who are addicted to 
suffering they've lived in the story for 
so long I'm too old I'm too fat I'm too 
damaged all the good ones are taken I 
live in the wrong City blah blah blah 
blah blah that rather than do the work 
put out the effort take the risk they 
live they're they're just there's no way 
you can help them they just want to hold 
on to poor me you know and it doesn't 
have to be that way because there's 7.5 
billion people live on the planet right 
now and half of them are single 
statistically you're walking past 
potential soulmate Partners every day 
but if you're thinking oh my God they've 
got to be 6-2 with a 31 inch waist or 
whatever you're never going to see 
what's right there in front of you 
and if you're telling yourself I need to 
be a size zero two or four in order to 
find love look around is it only skinny 
micro mini La type of Hollywood models 
that are in relationships no are you 
kidding there are people out there that 
will love you exactly as you are at the 
age you are and don't FIB about your age 
online ladies and gentlemen that will 
love you exactly the way you look 
exactly the way you are 
unconditionally I just want to add one 
thing to that the average size wedding 
dress sold in this country is a size 16. 
average did you hear that average that 
means for every zero there's a size 32 
out there okay that brings the average 
to 16. yes now the other thing is let's 
talk about Beyonce Halle Berry Sandra 
Bullock princess dye Melania Trump Reese 
Witherspoon 
um 
um what's her name uh 
uh I can think about 10 others all of 
these women are either a size zero or a 
size two 
they're all very wealthy 
they're all beautiful very accomplished 
and the thing they all have in common is 
they were all cheated on publicly by 
their husbands so being rich beautiful 
size she's successful is no barrier to 
having a great relationship or it's no 
indicator that you will have a great 
relationship so it's just one more 
excuse oh well when I lose that 20 
pounds but it's not going to happen 
because you will lose it and then you're 
going to gain back 25. we know this all 
right everybody's diet enough to know I 
don't care how much weight you lose 
eventually you're going to gain it back 
plus right so it's not about size at all 
it's about willingness like do I am I 
committed enough to my dream of spending 
the rest of my life with a partner and 
am I willing to have some really 
horrible experiences dating because you 
will you will there's no question about 
it there gonna get ghosted there's gonna 
be catfishers there are going to be 
people who lie you're gonna have some 
terrible experiences and am I willing to 
do it anyway knowing that I'm hanging on 
to the the big picture 
perfectly segwaying into this question 
that I've wanted to ask you is 
you talk a lot about manifesting a soul 
mate what do you think what is the 
necessary attitude and what are the key 
steps to manifesting a soulmate 
I think the most important thing is 
being in touch with how you most want to 
feel when you're with your partner 
you know and a good time to do this is 
either right when you wake up or before 
you go to sleep and you're just lying in 
bed and you've got your eyes closed and 
just picture your heart and just imagine 
how do I feel In This Moment now that 
I'm with my perfect life partner I'm 
happy I'm satisfied I'm content I'm 
excited I'm relieved I'm filled with 
anticipation I'm can you know I feel 
safe I feel loved cherished adored 
valued and let yourself marinate in 
those feelings and vibrate at that 
frequency of love and when you're 
vibrating at the frequency of love you 
become a magnet for even more love 
that's right you you become what you 
want to attract 
right yeah 
yeah but if you're living in oh what's 
the matter with me and you know why did 
I eat that cheesecake and if only I 
wasn't you know 
20 pounds thinner 40 pounds thinner you 
know if I only hadn't broken up with so 
and so 18 years ago and you live in all 
this regret and stupid thinking you're 
not gonna get there you know and the 
other place to to really be clear about 
is having a list of your must-haves and 
your deal breakers you have to really 
know those you know like I had some 
crazy must-haves on my list one of one 
of mine was must be able to walk 
unassisted 
the reason for that is I like to walk 
every single day and in my imaginary 
world I was taking long walks every day 
with my soulmate now of course I didn't 
look far enough into the future to the 
point where he had arthritis and 
couldn't walk as much as he used to but 
that's what happens when people get 
older but you know and I had another one 
must have English as a first language 
now I grew up in in South Florida where 
the official language is Spanglish and 
it was and words are really important to 
me and when you're with somebody who 
does for me that doesn't have English as 
a first language there are different 
meanings to words you know and and 
communication becomes even more 
difficult so I wanted somebody who could 
walk but English is a first language and 
the best thing I got that I asked for 
was I wanted somebody who had a great 
mother with whom he had a great 
relationship because I had heard the 
Mother-in-law stories and I wanted 
somebody who a loved and respected women 
and had a great mother and my 
mother-in-law was like the Buddha of 
love I totally like won in that 
department and that's why she gave birth 
to the heart chakra online right right 
he learned at the foot of the Buddha of 
how to be a loving being so yeah so 
you've got you've got to know what 
you're calling in you also got to know 
what you won't tolerate you know like 
for me I wanted somebody who was leading 
a healthy lifestyle which meant you know 
no no drugs no smoking exercise daily 
you know I didn't I don't care what kind 
of exercise he did some people are more 
specific about that like I had a friend 
on her must have list must be a 
triathlete 
and you know what she only had three 
things on her list must be a Christian 
and love God must want children right 
away must be a triathlete they met on 
Tinder and on the first date started 
planning their wedding and they've now 
been I went to the wedding they've now 
been happily married for seven years 
with two kids 
isn't that amazing right and if that is 
really your must-have must-have must 
have a triathlete right if someone came 
to me and said okay I'd really like a 
triathlete I'd say is it really like do 
you have to have to have to and if they 
said it's a deal breaker well good that 
actually Narrows the playing field makes 
it easier a lot right and suddenly if 
you value someone who has done 
triathlons most likely a triathlete is 
going to be more attracted to a fellow 
triathletes who else can understand the 
training involved right most people 
aren't going to put up with someone who 
has to train that much I also had on my 
must-have list must love cats because I 
well I I've always had cats only choose 
plenty but cats are important and I had 
once dated a guy who was allergic to 
cats and we only went out once because 
he I opened the front door and he 
started sneezing and then he started 
coughing and then he started choking and 
I I just looked at him and I and he 
looked at me and we said cats he said 
cats and so we're now friends on 
Facebook but I haven't seen him in 20 
something years 
that well and for you reaching over for 
your 25 pound cat who wasn't in your bed 
made you the next Domino was I want to 
be married I want a man to be here and 
then look at the whole trajectory you 
went down so gotta love cats yeah 
cute little critters you know you said 
something earlier and I wanted to come 
back to this and I know this is so in 
line with everything we've talked about 
but I really want to bring it home for 
people that are listening why living as 
if 
will get you to love faster okay so when 
you're living as if your behavior 
matches your belief so if your belief is 
I'm lovable I'm deserving of love my 
soulmate life partner is out there we're 
going to meet soon in the real world 
then the living is if would look like 
every time you walked into a card shop 
you'd be buying them birthday cards 
anniversary cards Valentine's Day cards 
I love you just because cards every time 
you see a concert or a play you want to 
go to you're buying two tickets with the 
plan to be you're going to take them to 
go on that sort of thing so your 
behavior matches your belief your belief 
is I'm worthy of love I on the other 
side my soulmate or I together soon 
we'll be together in the 3D World this 
is what life is going to look like 
together you know I and for me I I took 
it a step further I ended up you know 
changing the sheets and and the decor of 
my bedroom because it was a very girly 
bedroom the walls were pink everything 
was pink you know so right but I was 
dating so I changed I changed things 
thinking well you know if I were a guy 
would I be comfortable in this very 
girly white lace you know 
duvet you know it was very girly not no 
probably not so I toned it down a little 
bit uh so living as if it is important 
part of it's like dress dress for the 
job you want not the job you have it's 
the same concept 
I love this this is all so great Arielle 
for 
I'm just I'm blown away at your wisdom 
and your knowledge and couldn't be more 
grateful that you said yes to this 
conversation and anything for you Bill I 
love you I love who you are in the world 
I love what you're doing I love the fact 
that you are providing so much truth and 
wisdom in this crazy world where you 
know people are just beat up every day 
with [ __ ] about what's true and 
what's real about love do you know and 
you're sharing it so I'm happy anytime 
you want me just call me well I love it 
because I know we were introduced this 
is our soulmate Connection by someone 
else who is in the day coaching space 
who put Aryan Arielle and I together for 
a potential interview for a summit that 
you and Claire zamet were doing and when 
Arielle and I got on the phone I felt 
this like I was talking to someone I had 
been friends with for a long time and 
after sure what was supposed to be just 
that one interview that we did over the 
phone we stayed in contact and we became 
friends and we would do phone catch-ups 
and we had dinner in Chicago together 
you guys so remember there are people 
out there that want to love you people 
that want to have relationships with you 
be open to the possibilities 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find l 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to this week's episode 
which is going to literally and 
figuratively no pun intended blow your 
mind I have with me repeat guest Dr 
Michelle Roberts who if you've heard any 
of our prior episodes I mean I first 
started with Michelle on our Instagram 
live show where she blew my mind about 
something called complex PTSD which I 
had never heard about our whole instafam 
went wild when I started this podcast 
Michelle came on and talked about truly 
what a narcissist is so this is the 
person you guys that so many smart 
daters have worked with Michelle Roberts 
is a an unbelievable 
psychotherapist um in private practice 
she specializes in women that have had 
complex trauma disorders and let's let's 
say how many of us haven't at the end of 
the day so Michelle welcome to the 
podcast welcome back oh thanks Bella 
it's so great to be back and to see you 
and be part of this family and I know so 
many people now in the Smart dating 
Academy family and it's always great to 
be back kind of talking about you know 
things that can get us to that next 
level of healing yeah well Michelle 
let's Jump Right In because we have so 
much awesome ground to cover for those 
who aren't familiar with you tell us 
kind of about your work in Chicago how 
that led you to getting your doctorate 
and where you are now well sure um I 
guess going in the way way back machine 
I used to be 
crime reporter in 
Chicago and I of course saw lots of very 
sad horrific stories but often found 
myself wondering kind of what kind of 
personality structures were capable of 
certain things and that led me into just 
being ever curious about um low empathy 
disorders right like malignant 
narcissism and psychopathy and so I kind 
of started down that path and over time 
um I segued from journalism to um 
becoming a licensed clinician I got to 
jump in after you w a Pitzer let's not 
let me humble brag on your behalf go 
ahead thanks 
Bella anyway I kind of segued over to 
psychotherapy and um when I was working 
on my dissertation I kind of wanted to 
you know keep looking at that because um 
what I observed in my own life with my 
friends girlfriends you know in the 
early days of 
Instagram um even personal experience I 
was noticing more and more people who 
you know seemed to fit this personality 
structure and people were really getting 
hurt and so I focused my dissertation 
study on women who identify as 
narcissistic abuse survivors and the 
response to that was 
unbelievable more than 2,000 women 
participated in the research the 
findings were really groundbreaking um 
the main one that I'll mention now is 
that 
um of of the entire 
sample um 
84% of narcissistic abuse survivors fit 
the clinical criteria for complex 
PTSD but only 4% had been diagnosed with 
it so this is just a huge gap so imagine 
trying to go and get help and people are 
misdiagnosing you and not understanding 
what the problem is and another thing 
that's difficult is with narcissism 
sometimes it's really hard to explain 
these kind of subtle ambient types of 
abuse it's hard to really explain how 
damaging that can be 
because unlike Trad some forms of 
traditional domestic violence there's no 
you know outward signs of it in fact a 
lot of it just happens in the privacy of 
the 
relationship so um I um kind of embarked 
on that path and became a clinician 
really wanting to focus and find the 
right 
combination of whatever we had out there 
whatever trauma skills or modalities we 
had to really Target um 
women survivors of complex trauma 
brought on by relational abuse whether 
that started in their childhoods and or 
in their adulthoods and that's how we 
get here absolutely and it doesn't have 
to be in the Romantic realm to your 
point it can be childhood it can be 
siblings it could be extended family 
friends who knows 
absolutely and that was another 
interesting finding of their research 
was that most of the women in my study 
um had an elevated um what we call a 
score and I know you've talked about a 
scores on here before but that's the 
adverse childhood experiences scale and 
um women who identify as narcissistic 
abuse survivors have four times the norm 
score for Aces and so you think well 
kind of what what causes the complex 
PTSD is it the Early Childhood abuse is 
it the adult narcissistic abuse so we 
looked at that and we did um a 
regression analysis to pull those things 
apart and what we found out is both you 
could have cptsd with only the childhood 
abuse or you could have it with only the 
narcissistic abuse but when you think 
about for those of us who've kind of had 
both 
experiences you know that's a lot of 
that's a lot of stuff that need to be 
work worked through and it's complicated 
it it often talk therapy often isn't 
enough so that's kind of what brings us 
to this 
conversation yeah and that's and I you 
know 
cptsd is probably what as Michelle said 
as Dr Robert said I should I'm very 
Michelle 
okay as Michelle said so many people you 
you know I know you and I have talked 
about sometimes you know oh a therapist 
said I might be borderline personality 
disorder or I might be X or Y to your 
point there's so many 
misdiagnoses going around and I remember 
you educating me saying wait hold on a 
second sometimes we can be misdiagnosed 
with these things when it's really just 
truly narcissistic abuse that you've got 
cptsd and I thought holy cow this it 
really checks out with the things that 
we were seeing in our practice so as you 
said Michelle talk therapy isn't always 
enough tell us about EMDR and the work 
that you had started doing and how this 
helps yeah well you know what we see in 
cptsd you know and I know that this is 
kind of where your world and my world 
kind of go hand in hand is that we get 
stuck in these not so great dating and 
relational patterns right and we kind of 
find ourselves in this repetition of 
kind of always winding up with 
relationships that are 
unsatisfying um and sometimes even 
abusive right and why do we go we're 
smart women we lead companies why are we 
going around and around and around in 
circles when it comes to relationships 
it's very much a Hallmark of 
cptsd so when it comes to Breaking Free 
from those patterns there's a couple of 
treatments that I really believe can 
help facilitate this process so EMDR 
right right which I've spoken about 
before on this podcast and um 
psychedelic assisted therapy which I'm 
going to talk about later on so EMDR is 
for those of you who don't know it's a 
form of psycho therapy that involves the 
use of bilateral stimulation like eye 
movements or Taps right while you recall 
distressing memories or experiences and 
so the basic idea behind EMDR is that 
traumatic experience can get stuck in 
the brain causing disruptions in the way 
memories are processed and stored so 
EMDR can help us reprocess those 
memories in a way that really drives 
down their emotional intensity and 
negative impact so this approach helps 
us process Those Old Wounds and traumas 
that might be holding us back in our 
relationships um and like core negative 
beliefs like I'm unlovable or I'm broken 
those are the two most common ones I see 
with narcissistic abuse survivors now 
core negative beliefs are things we know 
aren't actually true but they still feel 
true and they run in the background of 
our lives like a hidden computer 
program so by working with the therap 
purpose to reprocess those through EMDR 
we can start to let go of some of that 
emotional baggage that's been keeping us 
stuck and find healthier ways to connect 
with ourselves and 
others beautiful and can you tell us 
what does EMDR stand for yes it's a 
mouthful sorry eye movement 
desensitization and 
reprocessing perfect um people ask me 
that all the time I'm like that was more 
for me I moveed sensitization and 
reprogramming reprocessing reprocessing 
okay learn that one today love that and 
I don't I tend to rarely ever spell that 
out because it's such a mouthful and I 
don't know that it really does a whole 
lot more to describe kind of that 
process it's just kind of a lot of 
jargon but that's what it stands 
for eye movement desensitization and rep 
processing okay and how do you know 
Michelle if there's dear listener out 
there is is listening to this saying 
okay how how would they know they're 
driving their car they're walking their 
dog they might be thinking to themselves 
God this really sounds like me how would 
they potentially know that they should 
go to a practitioner of 
EMDR well often I mean it's it's a 
process most people find their way to me 
because they've been doing talk therapy 
for years even with really good 
therapists who care a lot they've got a 
really warm connection with their 
therapist which is really important when 
you're doing trauma work but they don't 
feel any better I call it living Gray 
you've done all the things but you're 
still not feeling embodied you're still 
not feeling well alive Fully Alive so 
it's it's just this sense that yes I've 
done a lot of work I've talked through 
all of it before but why don't I still 
feel better and that's kind of that old 
program right that's you know what you 
know you know that you're lovable you 
know that um you're not broken but still 
you feel that way in the background and 
so what that means is there's still old 
traumas that are stuck in there that 
haven't been fully processed EMDR is how 
I accessed my own trauma and found it I 
mean after years of therapy found it to 
be really groundbreaking personally and 
how it helped me take a step forward so 
that's that's kind of how you know and 
when people reach out to me I often just 
you know that's one of the first 
questions I ask them is how much therapy 
have you done and how are you feeling 
and what worked and what didn't so often 
um EMDR in particular um attachment 
Focus 
dmdr um it's it can be it can kind of 
break through another barrier to get you 
to a new degree of 
repair love that love that and now talk 
to us about 
psilocybin and mushrooms and everyone 
seems to be talking a little bit about 
this a little bit about that and you are 
a real Pioneer in this so um tell us 
about psychedelic psychedelic assisted 
therapy and where does it fit in to the 
spectum of other therapies and 
modalities yeah yeah well so those of us 
who work in 
trauma um really are embracing the new 
research that is coming out around 
psilocybin or I'm sorry psychedelic 
assisted therapy and what this is is is 
that instead of using psychedelics right 
like psilocybin or magic mushrooms or 
MDMA or LSD to just trip and as a 
recreational you know activity we use 
them for therapy in really controlled 
settings safe settings so um this is 
still 
um 
there's basically there there was the 
beginning of This research kind of at 
the mid point of um this Century you 
know back into the 50s and 60s and 
psychedelics kind of began to gain this 
attention in the western world for their 
therapeutic potential even though right 
they've been used thousands of across 
thousands of years with various cultures 
right um for Spiritual and healing 
rituals but in the 50s and 60s 
researchers started conducting these 
groundbreaking studies on like LSD and 
cocy and exploring how their effects on 
Consciousness mental health and personal 
growth and they really showed promising 
results but then there was this kind of 
count Counter Culture right of 
widespread recreational use at the same 
time and there were some concerns about 
their safety and abuse potential so 
these substances were then classified as 
a schedule one drug in the United States 
in the early' 70s and basically shut 
down most Research into their 
therapeutic 
benefits um so fast forward right to the 
early 21st century and we see this 
Resurgence of interest in psychedelics 
for therapeutic use and researchers that 
um organizations like Maps which is the 
multi-disciplinary association for 
psychedelic studies really important 
player in all of this they've been at 
the Forefront of privately funding um 
clinical trials to investigate the 
efficacy of substances like MDMA and 
psilocybin which is what I'm going to 
talk to you about today um for treating 
conditions like BTSD depression and 
anxiety so in recent years we've had 
this huge shift in public perception and 
policy regarding 
psychedelics um while they're still 
federally illegal SE several cities and 
states have decriminalized or legalized 
psychedelics for personal or therapeutic 
use and recognizing their potential to 
revolutionize a mental health care I 
believe that's what's happening so 
coming back to me um I last fall or a 
year ago this past fall um I received an 
invitation to become a state licensed 
psilocybin 
facilitator so Oregon is the first state 
in the country that kind of pave the way 
for the legal therapeutic use of 
psilocybin in a controlled setting so um 
basically um this allows those of us who 
are licensed in Oregon to administer 
psilocybon or magic mushrooms to people 
who are 21 and older for therapeutic 
purposes and it's just a huge step 
forward in the realm of psychedelic 
assisted therapy and it marks a 
departure right from that recreational 
use only of magic mushrooms and other 
substances so I know that's a lot to say 
but it's kind of important to kind of 
understand that cont because how did we 
get here and how is you know magic 
mushrooms and tripping and all of those 
old associations we have with that how 
is how do we take that and approach that 
in you know really serious therapeutic 
environments right no it's so good to 
know I mean this is so educational for 
me as a child of the 80s you know it was 
Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds and if you 
drop acid you're going to fry your brain 
and you know kind of unregulated use and 
so now to hear that these things that we 
grew up with that are you know danger 
danger danger don't touch that there's 
so much potential medical benefit to 
them is 
amazing so in Oregon it's legalized I 
want to make sure I understand it to use 
by practitioners but not on your own is 
it or is it okay for recreational use no 
no no um it is not currently legal to 
take magic mushrooms recreationally in 
Oregon so this regulatory framework um 
is focused on therapeutic and controlled 
settings so that's just to ensure that 
people receive proper care they get the 
benefit of this substance and you know 
with support um while they're undergoing 
pilicide and therapy so yeah and it's a 
very I 
mean it it is a very highly regulated 
process that we're going through right 
and we're learning kind of as we go and 
what works and what doesn't but it's 
it's steeped in you know following all 
all that we know um from the science up 
to this 
state so it's a huge step forward and 
Oregon is you know defitely the guinea 
pig I love it's exciting to be here yeah 
and really we've just been 
online really for the last six or seven 
months so there's service centers and 
facilitators that are now coming on 
online and um I've seen many clients 
since I got started the end of last 
summer wow and so how does s ayin help 
cptsd or people that have had relational 
trauma how does it help you know and 
maybe you can talk about that and then 
maybe a little compare contrast like if 
if person X comes in how do you decide 
which is which or is there in 
order yeah it's a it's a great question 
so Solin has shown really serious 
promise in kind of helping people shift 
their perspectives and break free from 
negative patterns right which is what 
we're talking about so um a psilocybon 
therapy session can open new insights 
and help us get to the root of what's 
been keeping us stuck in those old 
relationship habits um it's thought to 
work by disrupting rigid thought 
patterns and fostering introspect 
introspection which you know that helps 
us confront and process those 
deep-seated emotions and memories and so 
for women kind of grappling with issues 
and traumas stemming from past 
relationships psilocybin therapy can 
provide a heightened State of 
Consciousness that may facilitate that 
deeper exploration of their emotions and 
experiences um so unlike traditional 
talk therapy that typically rely on that 
verbal communication psilocybin assisted 
therapy can evoke those really profound 
insights and emotions through a 
different pathway and that often leads 
to more profound breakthroughs and 
healing yeah and so it quiets the rigid 
patterns in our brains and really helps 
us to 
explore that trauma that's stuck is that 
is that kind of how it would be okay I 
can give you the so when you take Sol 
asdon it interacts with serotonin 
receptors in your brain especially the 5 
ht2a receptors to get too wonky I love 
it this inter you know I love the 
technicality this interaction leads to 
changes in the brain's neural activity 
and connectivity and it l literally 
changes how you see things feel and 
think so another cool thing that it does 
is it disrupts your brain's default mode 
Network your dmn I'll throw another 
acronym on you and the dmn is like your 
brain's autopilot for self focused 
thoughts and rumination and overthinking 
which we know are part and parcel right 
of 
cptsd so psilocybin turns down the 
volume on that autopilot and that can 
really help break through those rigid 
thought patterns and open the door to 
new ways of looking at things it also 
can boost that neural connectivity 
between brain regions that don't 
typically communicate with each other 
and so this enhanced connectivity can 
those fresh ideas creative thinking and 
just a broader understanding of your 
emotions and 
experiences and that's trying to put 
into words um an experience that most 
will say really defies words right the 
experience of being on you know a a mind 
a mind altering um psilocybin Journey it 
can it can really feel like a Journey to 
the Center of your soul right we're 
talking about you know neurons firing 
and EMB better neuroplasticity and all 
of that but what it really comes down to 
is this incredibly sacred Human 
Experience that helps us explore you 
know the nature of reality our place in 
the universe the interconnectedness of 
all things right so it can really be a 
deep profoundly moving life-changing 
experience and that's even just with one 
one dose and how do you how does one 
ingest it or how is it 
administered yeah here in Oregon of 
course there are rules about how much 
you can take and but in general if I'm 
working with a client who's coming to me 
and they want to really have you know a 
profound shift after we've done all the 
proper screening and um I usually would 
start out you know at a dose between 20 
and 25 which is considered a heroic dose 
I'm just for comparison's sake many of 
the clinical trials um have been dosed 
at 25 milligram so these are meant to be 
you know really big um 
experiences and then a person you know 
will be it will be at the the service 
center which are comfy you know spaces 
for doing this um rules require me to be 
right there with the person at all times 
I'm there to help facilitate if if 
anything is difficult for them but 
really they just the goal is to kind of 
turn inward and have your 
experience and I always get asked well 
what's it going to be like how's it 
going to feel what's going to come up 
for me I'm setting my intention for this 
does that mean that's what's going to 
happen and 
no way predict um sometimes people have 
incredibly beautiful warm connected you 
know experiences where it just feels 
like a wash of you know four to five 
hours of just love and other people have 
really difficult painful experiences 
where there's somatically feeling right 
um the pain from traumas that they've 
been through often for the first time 
it's like almost an immediate access to 
it and that can be really difficult um a 
lot of Journeys have a beautiful 
combination of both I worked with one 
woman once 
who had a very very very painful 
childhood you know narcissistic abuse in 
her adulthood and she went back to the 
womb and she felt cold and small and she 
heard a voice that said you were born 
wanting to die because you knew you 
weren't wanted talk about the computer 
program running in the background right 
oh my gosh and so the psilocybin Journey 
right through visuals and 
Sensations um showed her and made her 
feel that pain of not being wanted and 
then introduced her into a warmth color 
splashed Journey full of all of the 
memories of the time that she time she 
was wanted right and so she literally 
felt her nervous Shi system shifting 
more towards this warm feeling of being 
invited and wanted and just think if you 
have a program running in the background 
that you're not even fully aware of but 
it's the one of not being wanted just 
think how you're going to show up for 
your dates for your friendships right 
versus this one of being invited and 
wanted and open and loved and that's how 
she started showing up after that and it 
was really beautiful to watch 
wow and does it take multiple sessions 
or is it one or just it's person 
specific I think it's person specific 
but here's the thing I would never say 
oh you need to come back again 
because you need to decide whether this 
is what you want to do so a big part of 
the selection process is self- selection 
is this something you want to do I have 
many clients who have had one one really 
profound 
journey and have are working to 
integrate that you can integrate one 
Journey for the rest of your life and I 
have other clients who want to come back 
and do the next level so we started by 
saying you never know kind of what 
you're going to get that's true but what 
I will say and I've not even had an 
exception to this in my work so far is 
that this medicine is see to be so 
mystically tailored to each one of us as 
an individual that we always get no 
matter how warm or painful the exact 
Journey we need at that 
time wow that just gave me goosebumps 
that's amazing so whatever it does it 
titrates itself to you your physiology 
your unique trauma and whether it's Joy 
or pain or some combination of both it's 
what you need 
yep yes so it's been really really 
humbling right as someone who has sat in 
the seat with people doing the hard work 
for years and years it's very humbling 
to see and experience some of these 
profound shifts we can get in you know a 
much shorter period of time with Sila 
cybin now it's not for everyone and it's 
not like a a Bullet Silver bullet right 
to all your pain once you have that 
Journey it's it's the hard work of 
integrating it into your life so what 
you experience then becomes your new 
pattern right so we have to keep going 
with whatever it is that we're doing um 
in in the service of our own growth and 
connection so integration work is I 
would argue and I mean so would almost 
anyone working in this space that I know 
what argue you that integration of the 
experience is probably the most 
important part and when you say 
integration tell me what that means 
maybe an example yeah integration would 
be um taking whatever came up in your 
journey and applying it to your daily 
life so that you have new habits right 
we know another experience of 
psychedelics is um a reduction in the 
desire to drink and 
smoke right wow so you have this window 
of 
neuroplasticity that you need to work 
with so you could enjoy that that period 
of time without wanting to you know 
drink and smoke or you could do the 
other things to support that behavior 
into being kind of a lifelong decision 
right there's it's not just enough to 
kind of sit by and wait and see what 
happens you then have to you've got some 
momentum and it's your job to keep that 
momentum 
going and so in 
general what have you seen what kinds of 
you know maybe you can give us an 
example of somebody that has gone 
through this in your practice and I 
realize it's so new and your practice is 
new but is there is there any story you 
can tell us about how you know working 
with the magic mushrooms and then doing 
this integration work how is this 
affecting women's ability to seek out 
and be in a happy healthy 
relationship yeah that it's a great idea 
I had one 
client I always make a joke CU when 
you're on psilocybon mushrooms you know 
there's all sorts of time warpy things 
that are happening so at some point you 
know I have to help a client go to the 
bathroom and I always make a joke I'm 
like this bathroom has a Time War 
features so don't get scared if you feel 
like you've been in there too long you 
probably haven't been in there very long 
at all and I started saying that after I 
had a client who went to the bathroom 
and she was only in there for a couple 
minutes 
and finally you know she opened the door 
and she oh my God I thought I was never 
going to get out of there you said and 
then I realized I could just open the 
door and walk through 
right and so I mean it's a metaphor but 
for her it was I I feel like I'm stuck 
in things and so often we get Frozen in 
place right 
by and so for her this sensation of 
being able to just wait I can just walk 
through that door we become separated 
from that really basic but profound idea 
and and you know I don't encourage a lot 
of huge life changes like in the month 
after you've had a siloc cybin journey 
right you want to take things slow but 
ultimately she left a very very unhappy 
relationship and is moving forward so 
for her her journey even though the 
message came to her in this kind of 
silly way about the bathroom door right 
was you can just walk through the 
door I love that I love that so much 
like you're not stuck in the bathroom or 
with this bad dude right you have agency 
to open the bathroom door and to open 
the door to leave 
him yeah wow wow because anyone who's 
had complex trauma really probably can 
relate with the dissociative symptoms of 
that disorder right it's the sense of 
just being stuck in time stuck right and 
Frozen so um that's that's just one 
kind of example of an 
anecdote of one person I've worked 
with and if someone's thinking about 
this and you know they're like God you 
know I listen to a lot of what Bella 
says and I think I don't have a good 
picker right how do you think this could 
help them to sort out their love life 
maybe 
through realizing they have age or tell 
us about that because I'm sure a lot of 
people are like huh this sounds really 
good right about now like I'd like to 
get un stock I mean I'm listening to 
this going I don't have cptsd but wow 
this sounds kind of good so I'm guessing 
it's number one not for everybody like 
you said not a silver bullet no it's not 
a Sil Silver Bullet um and it's not for 
everybody you know people who have um 
been who have bipolar disorder or schiz 
you know a lot of family history of 
schizophrenia we want to be really 
careful right um and and there's a few 
there's a few other you 
know things that we we screen for um but 
for a lot of people it can really 
facilitate this personal growth and you 
know for anyone who's you know got a 
broken picker right there's there's 
something about that that is still kind 
of it's sending the message that I'm 
broken right it's the same way of saying 
I'm broken right is that script in the 
background yeah um and so you know just 
like with some of the examples I've 
already talked about kind of a profound 
shift in those core negative beliefs 
that we have running kind of behind the 
scenes I mean it can really it can 
really change that what would it be like 
to be able to go into a dating situation 
not afraid that I was going to make a 
mistake again but having confidence that 
even if I did I would know how to kind 
of exit it sooner and I would be able to 
kind of go on to the next one without so 
much say shame and self-recrimination 
about it absolutely and and about broken 
pick Pickers or fixing your Pickers for 
those of you you who have followed our 
work I always P I always say 
afterwards to some extent if your picker 
isn't broken it's kind of a miracle 
because we can't pick what happens to us 
we can't pick the messaging even from 
society we can't pick some evolutionary 
things right so if that's the case 
remember what do I always tell you guys 
it's not your fault no matter what and 
if it is the good news is there's so 
much help around there that didn't exist 
even 10 or 20 or 30 years ago so sit in 
that and just say wow you know what 
that's cool that I'm not broken and if I 
don't know how to do this it's not my 
fault because I was never taught how to 
do it it's like just because you're not 
you know a pro Javelin thrower well I 
was never taught how to do it nobody's 
going to judge you for that so this is 
sort of the same thing we were never 
taught how to do relationships right we 
are witness to relationships or we've 
had relationships foed on us that we 
didn't pick from the time we were born 
right so you know nobody sat any of us 
down and said hey this is how one gets 
into great 
relationships with friends with family 
members with romantic relationships so 
so we're all in this together you guys 
exactly 
exactly um is there anything Michelle 
that I didn't ask you that I 
should well I think um one of the things 
that you asked me is that I'm not sure I 
fully answered and that was you know how 
do I know if psilocybin is right for me 
or if I should be doing some other work 
first and I think that 
I mean and I'm talking generally right 
there could be exceptions in specific 
cases but 
generally 
um a a solusyon journey can facilitate a 
whole opening in a in for therapy that 
you might not have been able to access 
before so I had one client who um and 
this isn't uncommon but who in her cocy 
Journey remembered some pretty 
significant trauma that she had been um 
not able to kind of bring up or confront 
in 
Psychotherapy and with that kind of at 
the Forefront then she was able to work 
with that so basically her therapy Jour 
Journey really kind of started at the 
psilocybin wow point of 
psilocybin um in other ways it was like 
I've already kind of talked about a 
little bit is that folks who've already 
done a lot of work and kind of feel 
stuck can also benefit moving forward um 
I love to work with clients who come to 
me for soloc cybin if I'm feeling like 
they're really kind of in a state of 
Crisis or have a lot of anxiety I'm 
probably going to recommend that um in 
order to work with me right they could 
always go and choose a different 
facilitator but I really like to be able 
to have a few sessions to at least teach 
them some grounding techniques and some 
other things that might be helpful for 
them if their Journey becomes really 
painful or if they get stuck in kind of 
an anxiety a state of anxiety when 
they're doing their Journey so it's just 
kind of you know there's different ways 
to look at it but I have I really found 
it to be profoundly helpful in kind of 
breaking through some of those barriers 
where we get stuck in our selfworth work 
and worth I guess I love that and this 
brings me maybe I haven't fully 
understood so if someone how does one 
know or how does a facilitator or a 
therapist assess okay you're stuck in 
talk therapy let's say you're living in 
the gray like you said how do you know 
is does one come first like do if you 
take said person with cptsd is do you 
have like a first line of thing like do 
you say Okay first we're g to try EMDR 
for x amount of sessions or it does it 
not work like that where it just it's 
person specific trauma specific you may 
say you're going straight to soloc ibin 
you know Jane do and for John do he 
might go to EMDR first so yeah well it's 
it's interesting and here's something 
that's just a an aside but an important 
one I think right here and that's that 
my licensure as a therapist is 
completely separate from my lure as a 
psilocybin oh licensed um facilitator so 
they're separate and you know there's 
there's 
some you know good um so I keep those 
two things you know pretty pretty 
separate so usually people who are 
coming to me at least in this point 
until I think there's more cohesion you 
know between these 
licenses um people who are coming to me 
for COC cybin are coming to me for S 
ayin got it okay and vice versa now I 
might have a client who I think would 
who's been a long time in my practice 
who I think would be great I would 
recommend that um I wouldn't recommend 
that but if they inquire I would you 
know I would kind of support them in 
that Journey either working with me or 
with another 
facilitator um vice versa if someone 
comes to me um for COC cybin I might but 
I feel like I wouldn't you know based on 
the things that I'm hearing they might 
not be ready I might give them some 
advice you know maybe you know you want 
to work on some meditation and some 
grounding techniques before you start 
this and you're not right for me right 
now but then they could choose to go to 
another facilitator so there's some 
choppiness right in this regulatory 
framework still that we're working 
through but I guess that's the best way 
I could answer that question right now 
no that's so great to know because I 
didn't realize that so I thought it was 
like oh and I'm doing this and I'm doing 
that but I understand it's like it's 
like blue hat yellow hat now you're 
ultimately the Hat wearer so you can 
talk to somebody and 
say I think you should be with me in my 
yellow hat or me in my blue hat or you 
can do both hats but you ultimately 
partner with the client to make those 
assessments exactly and i' I've had um 
people come for siloc cybin who we've 
had this discussion and instead of 
treating them with that we've been doing 
EMDR right and so that's a different hat 
and that's been going great great right 
and they've not they've not um wanted to 
do soloc since then because they're 
getting traction and I'm not saying one 
is better than the other in fact I think 
they kind of work beautifully together 
together right like all of it talk EMDR 
psilocybin like I can only imagine as 
your practice as you are in practice 
longer and longer you'll probably start 
to see like okay like yeah maybe we're 
going to going to shift to here but then 
we're going to go back here because you 
start to understand how these things all 
work together which I'm guessing they 
will and isn't that exciting yeah and 
like we're at the very beginning of this 
right so what's happening here in Oregon 
you know we are we're really trying to 
create this system that really works for 
people and you know also trying to you 
know stay true to you know our other 
licenses so they're separate but you 
know I I hope for a time you know 
someday when there's just much more kind 
of 
overlap and there is overlap just 
because I am who I am right and other 
therapists who are also licensed cyber 
cybin practitioners um we are who we are 
we bring these skills in no matter what 
right but there's we have to just be 
careful of what we're wearing and whenn 
yeah no that's amazing and I'm sure it 
will only evolve to get better and 
better I hope so yes yeah Michelle 
you're the best thank you so much for 
enlightening me and our audience with 
this I think this shows so much promise 
and um I'm honored and grateful for your 
time on the show today yeah thanks so 
much for having me I always love coming 
on and seeing you and getting to talk 
about all of these exciting things we 
can do to heal ourselves and heal 
ourselves and ultimately Michelle and I 
are in the same quadrant of we want to 
help you to love yourself and to be able 
to have the kinds of relationships that 
best serve you in your life and the 
beauty is that we are both and I'm going 
to put you under this fail to Michelle 
we're both tremendously psychotically 
optimistic about about everybody's 
abilities to get to a better place right 
and one foot in front of the other so um 
with great hope and great love I bid you 
farewell and again thank you to Michelle 
and if this Sparks in you the desire to 
inquire 
about how Michelle can help you Michelle 
where can they what's your website oh 
www.del roberts.com 
perfect and it's Michelle with two L's 
and roberts.com 
and if you're ready for a dating 
consultation go to Smart dating 
academy.com guys Love Is in the Air it's 
springtime the birds and the bees are 
out out the weather's getting better so 
there's nothing like summer love so 
until next week I B you farewell and 
have a beautiful week bye thank 
you 


well women survivors of complex trauma 
brought on by relational abuse whether 
that started in their childhoods and or 
in their adulthoods absolutely and it 
doesn't have to be in the Romantic realm 
to your point it can be childhood it can 
be siblings it could be extended family 
friends who knows and that was another 
interesting finding of their research 
was what what causes the complex PTSD is 
it the Early Childhood abuse is it the 
adult narcissistic abuse 
so we looked at that and we did um a 
regression analysis to pull those things 
apart and what we found out is both you 
could have the ctsd with only the 
childhood abuse or you could have it 
with only the narcissistic abuse but 
when you think about for those of us 
who've kind of had both experiences you 
know that's a lot of stuff that needs to 
be worked through and it's complicated 
it it often talk therapy often isn't 
enough 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back to the podcast 
and this is a really common topic that 
we help with when we're coaching our 
one-on-one clients through our practice 
and it's what happens when you've had a 
date that you think is a good date 
um and then you don't hear from the 
person what do you do and this is 
primarily we coach men and women I hear 
a lot of this from both genders like 
what happens like I thought we had a 
really good date and it could be a video 
date it could be a glass of wine it 
could be we took a walk it could be 
we've been on four dates right and what 
I want you to think about doing is 
sending what we call a nudge test a text 
especially if it's in the very early 
phases of dating what is that 
so it's a text which basically nudges 
the person into an action so let's say I 
went out on a date with somebody I'm 
going to tell you actually a better 
story about a client of mine that is was 
super shy 
and she said I'm the shyest person 
you'll ever meet I have a tremendous 
amount of social anxiety I can get up on 
a stage for work and I can present to 
300 people in my business but if you 
tell me to go into a birthday party or I 
don't know anybody I'm going to sit in 
the driveway for 30 minutes trying to 
amp up my courage to walk in by myself 
I'm like but you know the person who's 
having the party and she said yeah but 
that doesn't matter I don't know anybody 
else there and so I am so in my head 
anxious okay so she's very shy very 
anxious we put her online she goes out 
on a date with the guy who she meets at 
Starbucks on a Sunday and she came back 
from the date she's like it was actually 
nice because if I'm shy and anxious he 
was more shy and more anxious like I why 
was the conversational Chatterbox during 
this date so we were giggling about it 
they met at Starbucks for coffee so very 
low investment and she thought it was 
great so now Monday rolls around 
Tuesday rolls around we don't hear 
anything from him by Wednesday she's 
devastated she's new to dating she's 
like I told you this wouldn't work I'm 
too shy I'm too awkward all of the Mind 
monkeys came out so I said to her I want 
you to send him a nudge text and she's 
like what's that I said well 
you don't know what he's thinking just 
because he hasn't messaged you doesn't 
mean he doesn't like you maybe he didn't 
think you liked him and he didn't want 
to hear no again and so he didn't 
message you because he got into his own 
head thinking there's no way she liked 
me I'm so shy I'm so anxious I'm so 
awkward so I had her say hey 
Alan it was so fun meeting up at 
Starbucks on Sunday I drove by there and 
thought of you today how's your week 
going question mark she signed her name 
five minutes later her phone rings not 
even her text phone rings and he says 
it's so great to hear from you would you 
like to go out this weekend 
and she was like o m g so they agreed to 
go out the next weekend and guess what 
they're now happily married and they've 
been married for a couple of years so 
what happened is we all get in our head 
sometimes and so if you haven't heard 
from somebody that you think you had a 
good date with it's 50 50. maybe they 
weren't into you and that's fine but 
maybe they were but they thought you 
didn't like them the way we break that 
tie is sending this nudge text if 
someone is interested like my client's 
date was they'll respond quickly going 
oh my gosh I thought they didn't have 
any fun but they did and I like them so 
let's do this but if you send the nudge 
text and you hear crickets you don't 
hear anything then it falls on the other 
side of the line okay maybe they just 
weren't that into you send one nudge 
text not seven nudge texts not 17. now 
not phone calls nothing one nudge text 
see you've got a 50 50 shot of putting 
it over the line and I'll tell you what 
a lot of times the nudge Works does it 
always work no but at least you know 
bless and release them at that point if 
they're not into you and they don't see 
what an awesome catch you are and 
they're not into you okay bless them and 
release them on their way put good 
energy out there wish them well and look 
for people that are into you so I hope 
you have an amazing week I hope this 
nudges you haha to send a nudge text 
next time you're in doubt and if you 
don't know what to do and you're 
confused about a situation and you need 
some help remember we are personal 
trainers for your love life this is what 
we do helping you is the food that feeds 
us to go to smartdatingacademy.com sign 
up for our newsletter subscribe to this 
podcast schedule a consultation with us 
right you were worth any investment you 
make your grow growth is worth all of it 
don't spend the money on your handbag or 
your cabinets or the Safari spend money 
on the most important decision you'll 
ever make and that's finding the lid to 
your pop because you are worth it and 
it's the most important decision you 
will ever make so with that signing off 
I'm wishing you a week of amazing love 
and um Happy nudging 


when I hear people say oh um I have 
trouble with relationships because I had 
this really abusive boyfriend as a 
teenager and I'm like it didn't start as 
a teenager you picked him as a teenager 
because of something that happened 
really early and so spending the time to 
swim around your childhood and also to 
learn how to forgive your parents 
because most parents did the best they 
could with the tools they had and also 
um learning to manage feelings when I 
say happy people have happy 
relationships they're not happy all the 
time but when they're unhappy when 
they're angry when they're frightened 
they have really good coping strategies 
they know how to communicate their 
feelings they know who to reach out to 
who can help console them they know how 
to manage their feelings well so the 
feelings don't come out as you know 
erratic strange hurtful 
Behavior 


it's really important that you think 
about one what are you looking for is 
this a long-term relationship is it more 
of a short-term casual relationship 
which is fine but really be open and 
honest with yourself about what you want 
what you need and a lot of people put 
tons of pressure and I understand that 
social media social comparison where 
it's just that they have to find the one 
by a certain point in time and if you 
are able to of course easier said than 
done you know treat this as a wonderful 
way to expose yourself to other people 
that you might not normally connect with 
to learn more about them and to assess 
that interpersonal connection or 
compatibility it's a learning experience 
and if you're able to take it from that 
perspective you're going to feel a lot 
better versus kind of going in and 
putting so much pressure which leads to 
anxiety and can certainly lead to dating 
fatigue 


one of the biggest questions i get from 
everybody is oh my god how do i flirt 
how do i increase my confidence so today 
i cannot tell you how excited i am to 
give you guys the gift of kimmy selter 
who is a confidence therapist authentic 
dating strategist and an image expert 
let's dive right into this i believe 
that you have to work from the outside 
in and so what the formula speaks to 
is really three pillars 
is first working on what i call your 
style intelligence which is how you 
market yourself it's your clothes it's 
your body language it's your first 
impressions it's your energy 
then i go inward and work on your 
emotional intelligence and that's how 
you express yourself your vulnerability 
the authenticity how you really like 
show up 
and express that 
and the third pillar is your social 
intelligence and that's how you manage 
interpersonal you know relationships and 
yes that includes flirting so that's 
where flirting comes in 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm bellagande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back I'm so excited 
to talk to you today and to introduce my 
incredible guest Ms Gabrielle Hartley 
Gabrielle is first of all just a 
freaking amazing human being she's a 
friend but professionally she's a 
nationally recognized online mediator 
she's a divorce attorney she's the 
co-chair of the American Bar Association 
Association mediation committee she's a 
tedx speaker and most importantly she's 
the author of the book and the topic 
that we're going to talk about today 
called Gabrielle tell us the title of 
your book the secret to getting along 
and why it's easier than you think well 
what an intro for you Gabrielle let's 
talk about the secrets to getting along 
and why is it easier than you think 
because sometimes I'm not sure it's that 
easy to get along so all I didn't know I 
didn't say it's easy I said it's easier 
than you think right so it's like not 
impossible you can do we can all do it 
better right so I'm talking I'm not 
talking about making every relationship 
like perfect I am talking about like 
perfect did you like my valley girl 
there I'm talking about 
making your relationships that are 
dysfunctional more functional your 
relationships that are already 
functional even better okay so I love 
that let's talk about getting 
dysfunctional to functional how do we do 
that like tell us maybe for context give 
us a little bit about how did you start 
doing this work how did you decide to 
write this book okay well I'll give you 
the the short version so when I grew up 
my parents divorced when I was nine and 
my brother was six and they did it even 
though it was the early 80s they did it 
in a very mindful way they went to 
mediators and they brought us all in and 
they really modeled getting along even 
when they disagreed right and 
then I went to law school and I took 
family law passed fail I was like I am 
never going to be a divorce lawyer this 
is like the least interesting topic and 
I am done with it but as luck would have 
it then I wound up working for a judge 
in divorce court in New York City where 
I helped to resolve nearly a thousand 
high conflict crazy cases and I found 
number one that I absolutely loved it I 
was really good at it I didn't I didn't 
plan to do it it's just it just worked 
out that way and I saw how much people 
thought about nonsense and how much the 
system really 
stirred up more conflict than there even 
was to begin with so 
when I left working for the judge I 
started my lawn mediation firm and 
that's when I wrote my first book better 
apart the radically positive way to 
separate so anyway I write better apart 
and then 
I start to think about and you know 
living in the world how could you not 
think about how much conflict there is 
everywhere every day wherever we turn 
and I've decided to write a book called 
the secret to getting along and why it's 
easier than you think 
for all of us to use in our lives at 
home at work dating with your neighbors 
in our lives because the same 
skills that you need to get through and 
move Beyond a divorce any kind of high 
conflict or even mid to high conflict 
situation can really benefit from 
okay well tell us I mean I'm sure dear 
listener you like all of us like 
Gabrielle like me we have relationships 
that are good and functional and the 
people we love and then we have the 
people that might cause us more friction 
in our lives where we're like oh we see 
their name come through on our cell 
phones we're like oh God do I have to 
pick this up What's it gonna be that 
person that gives you butterflies in 
your stomach because butterflies are 
anxiety I was gonna say not in a good 
way butterflies and those people you 
know sometimes hopefully not people 
you're dating but sometimes we are 
related to people who make us anxious 
but we don't want to cut ties with you 
might have a very difficult parent or 
sibling that you don't want to cut out 
of your life so you have to figure out 
how to make stronger boundaries around 
yourself so that you're protected so 
that you have almost like I think of it 
as like that myelin sheath for anybody 
here who um I studied bio you know like 
a protective so that you can stay safe 
emotionally and not get impacted when 
that person who you have 
strong affection for comes at you and 
causes those butterflies to escalate and 
make you feel actually sick inside and 
for you to become destabilized because 
of their destabilizing actions or 
behaviors or what they say and do oh my 
gosh okay give us the formula I'm sure 
everybody's listening with baited Breath 
Right Now how do we deal with that 
difficult 
co-worker boss 
sibling neighbor cousin parent child 
that is basically putting a knot in our 
stomach and we just are having problems 
getting along what can we do okay so and 
I know Bella you saw my TED Talk and if 
anyone hasn't listened to it I have a 
a very basic model that is 
called the yes method and there are 
three steps to it it is owning your role 
now your role may be very small but your 
Ro Your Role is very likely a small 
destructive behavioral tendency or habit 
that you might have you might 
catastrophize you might minimize you 
might steamroll I mean there's a bunch 
of there's a whole Suite of things we 
all do that make things worse right yeah 
that's number one number two we've got 
to get to the E which is what's the 
emotional story what do we want or need 
here 
not the position what's the behavior 
that we want to stop but what do we 
actually need at our core and I'm going 
to circle back to that difficult person 
and then number three is s which is for 
shelving or pausing heated conversations 
Okay so 
let's take so they those three things 
the Y the E and the S you don't 
necessarily do them in this particular 
order that's just a nice acronym to 
remember okay okay got it got it go we 
resolve our conflicts by understanding 
what we're fighting about so in terms of 
let's say you have a difficult father 
let's just say and you love your dad and 
you want to stay close to your dad but 
he's a nut and when he calls you you're 
totally dysregulated you can't 
concentrate on whatever you're supposed 
to do and so you know what you might 
want is you might want to say when you 
pick on the phone oh my gosh dad stop 
calling me you're interfering with you 
like how I'm holding the phone like it's 
the 80s I do your interfere 
interfering with my day you might just 
want to say like stop calling you might 
have this instinct to just you know yell 
back at him or cut him out or whatever 
it is 
but you need to take that pause shelve 
that conversation take that break and 
ask yourself why do you want that why 
and you and what you're really looking 
for is two things you want you want to 
feel peaceful right that's one thing 
that you want and another thing you want 
is to maintain a relationship right but 
you know you can't have the relationship 
that you imagined having right because 
he's a nut because he's a nut and so all 
you can do is control your behavior 
which is back to the why right so what 
are you gonna do well during the work 
day maybe you're gonna if if he starts 
calling you at eight in the morning you 
might say I will talk to you after work 
I love you but I can't talk until after 
work and then you're going to go to your 
phone and maybe block his calls until 
after work I'm not suggesting you do 
that if there's some emergency medical 
thing you have to give him access to you 
but other than that block is closed so 
you are creating that shelving mechanism 
that pause so that you can de-escalate 
and then at the end of the day you can 
have a better thought out plan on how 
you're going to deal with that difficult 
person in this case you're nutty dad 
okay so at that point shelving that 
heated conversation if your dad's 
blowing up your phone and you're at work 
basically say with love I can't talk to 
you now right I'll call you after work 
have a great day look forward to 
catching up send a nice message and then 
block if you need to now when you call 
your dad after work 
what happens 
how do you put yourself in the right 
mindset at that point so first of all 
you've had a whole day to cool down you 
have a whole day to not think about your 
dad do your work have lunch with your 
friends whatever it is that you're doing 
during your day maybe if you're so lucky 
maybe take a run or do something 
exercise wise before you unblock him and 
then maybe you can control when the next 
contact is by you calling him that will 
turn that will tend to de-escalate right 
maybe he'll even not pick up your call 
now right but at least you've reached 
out and you can even say hey just trying 
you back hope you had a great day love 
you 
and that's it and then most of the time 
somebody who's really high conflict 
unless there's a particular thing 
happening their attention after eight 
hours is most likely going to ship to a 
new person and you don't even have to 
worry about them continuing on you 
because they just might have been in 
that sort of Mind space 
thanks yes absolutely and and so at that 
point you've done you've basically oh to 
some extent you've owned your own piece 
in it it's like okay if I engage with 
you now I'm not going to be the best 
version of myself so I'm going to shelve 
it and my emotional need the E part is I 
need to be peaceful and balanced during 
my day so when I pick up the phone and 
call my dad hopefully cooler heads have 
prevailed on both sides and then we can 
stick to the issue at hand but now what 
if he's still incendiary and says for 
example you know 
um I really I'm really upset with you 
that you aren't coming to Thanksgiving 
this year and you're going to your 
husband's place 
and you can say 
I hear that you're really upset with me 
and I do not like disappointing you 
that's it 
and then what's he gonna say Bella well 
does that mean you're gonna come no 
you're gonna still do what you want to 
do but you're just going to hear how he 
feels 
and that I was going to say it's really 
important to understand why the other 
person is acting the way they're acting 
of course 
we can't be in other people's heads 
it might feel like the reason your dad's 
acting like that is because he's trying 
to control you but maybe he just wants a 
feeling of family 
right 
and so you just say I'm sorry to 
disappoint you maybe next week and offer 
an alternative next week why don't we go 
out for dinner why don't you come for 
dinner why don't I come to you for 
dinner next year you know whatever it is 
or I'll come for whatever other holiday 
you your family might celebrate 
and I think to your point I'm going to 
talk about what a Smart dating Academy 
tenant here and we talk about assuming 
positive intent and to your point right 
it is my dad is being controlling and 
when we go down that Branch right we can 
spin out of control exactly there he 
goes there he goes again and that's 
right if you own your reaction and say 
hold on Bella if this was me hold on 
what's another story that could be 
happening maybe your dad values family 
and he misses you and he just wants to 
see you and seeing you in your time 
makes him feel important then I 
automatically say oh you know what I get 
that he's older and he's isolated and 
there's not a lot of people around him 
that are making him feel important at 
this point because he's retired so it 
automatically takes me down 10 notches 
great temperature back down so that I 
can call him from a place of empathy and 
understanding even if he is being a 
controlling Jack hole which hopefully 
he's not but I have now brought my own 
temperature down when he says I really 
want you to come it's like Dad I know 
that family is so important to you and 
it's so important to me and you're so 
important to me I'm not going to be able 
to make it there on Christmas day but 
what I could do is we could be there 
Christmas Eve how does that sound 
because you're important to me exactly 
and sometimes you're just gonna have to 
disappoint the person but you're gonna 
give them an alternative the good enough 
alternative the Goldilocks alternative 
and hopefully your father will be 
magnanimous but if not he he may not 
show that he's satisfied enough because 
of Pride or whatever other reasons but 
but by assuming the best 
and doing just you you couldn't I 
couldn't have laid out the script better 
than you did that's exactly what you 
need to do and this very formula helps 
us in all of our relationships you know 
why didn't somebody call me back they 
must not like me well maybe maybe not 
maybe they were really busy 
right exactly well we don't call them 50 
times we give them space and let them 
call you when it's time 
and if maybe they they don't call you 
soon enough for your liking maybe that's 
not the person for you right so like 
reading signals is also an important 
point of getting along 
100 and having empathy right so often 
even in the dating World somebody might 
cancel on us two hours before Oh my son 
is really sick and now if my self-esteem 
is feeling a little bruised and I've 
been ghosted for the last three weeks by 
four different guys I might go oh my God 
you're lying all these guys just lie but 
instead if you can for that moment take 
yourself out of yourself own that's your 
past but I'm not going to bring it into 
my present and say Let Me Be empathic at 
this point my gosh that's awful I so 
appreciate that you want to be there for 
your son I would love to reschedule with 
you is there a date that works or let me 
know what works then you've been 
empathic because it's 50 50 at that 
point if you take out your frustration 
of the four previous people on this 
current person who in a sense is an 
innocent bystate Stander exactly right 
exactly and so blown it right and so 
you just again laid out the whole the 
whole yes concept Your Role so 
when you're in a situation let's just 
say it's a dating situation and you're 
feeling some some of your feels notice 
what your behaviors are right do you 
tend to catastrophize in your mind all 
these guys are jerks right so you 
minimize and do you take too much 
garbage nobody's a jerk I'm not worth 
anything you can cancel on me five times 
in a row I don't care right are you 
minimizing you're catastrophizing you 
know are are you doing there's a whole 
set of things that we do that get in the 
way of our success in all of our 
relationships are you steamrollering 
somebody who really maybe doesn't want 
to go out well maybe we can go here what 
about this and you keep throwing things 
at them and you're not giving them the 
space to come to you 
exactly exactly and I love that you're 
talking about these things right and 
these are things that we call remember 
your thoughts determine your destiny and 
if you're bringing all of your stuff and 
what I think are called cognitive 
distortions right like you're 
catastrophizing oh my God if he canceled 
on me I'm never gonna find love okay how 
did you get from one to one million 
seven hundred thousand at that point 
that was pretty easy it was pretty easy 
for them though it's pretty easy because 
we can spin ourselves down these holes 
so the why in the yes method is 
controlling your stuff and y'all believe 
me this is a lot harder than you think 
it is and we all have stuff like don't 
judge yourself for your stuff like I've 
got stuff Bella's got stuff like the 
whole every if you are a human you have 
stuff and it doesn't mean baggage it 
just means behavioral tendencies that 
are destructive that we developed as 
child children maybe our parents had 
them maybe we had 
trauma maybe not like terrible trauma 
but whatever things we went through as 
kids and these were how we coped so when 
you find yourself upset ask yourself am 
I doing some of these things and then 
just take a pause I'm not suggesting 
that you should suddenly become this 
total Zen Buddha if you're actually like 
a highly easily stimulated person but 
just that you take that pause and you 
think about hmm what's another positive 
reason that this person might be acting 
this way or refraining from acting in a 
way that I wish he or she would be yeah 
absolutely so I love this so let's talk 
now about different scenarios you know I 
let's say let's say you walk into a date 
and your date clearly unbeknownst to you 
because you have not been at Smart 
dating Academy 
and you don't know how to connect with 
someone versus disconnect and you're not 
screening people the right way so you're 
still going out on bad dates right so we 
have a whole formula to prevent you 
going on bad dates but so let's say you 
sit down and this person is negative or 
they start spewing some political stuff 
that you don't agree with or they make 
some terrible comments like how do you 
is this a situation Gabrielle that you 
can turn around can you get along with 
this person 
so I think the first thing you have to 
decide is what is your goal for this 
evening I mean my advice would be to not 
just leave and be rude you always want 
to be polite and I would just let their 
words that disagree with you dissolve 
around you like the air because it's not 
worth it this is not somebody I have a 
whole section in the secrets to getting 
along hashtag relationship goals like 
how important is this person to you this 
person you're never gonna see again 
you're never gonna talk to again but you 
don't know who they are they might be 
the parent of your friend your kid's 
friend they might be somebody I mean 
your neighbor you have no idea it's 
always good to put your best foot 
forward and then to make a graceful exit 
when the time is right you don't want to 
leave before the coffee comes if it 
feels like you're both going to have 
coffee if if he or she is talking about 
something that you find 
distasteful or unpleasant try to 
gracefully turn the conversation to 
another topic you might even say 
let's talk about something else so that 
way you're drawing a fine line you're 
being clear you're setting a boundary 
there it's clear that there's no love 
connection but you're you're there if 
you made it I'm not sure how you got all 
the way to dinner and you haven't 
established this because I would say you 
should first have a quick date 
before but I haven't gone to the Smart 
dating Academy so I don't I don't know 
Bella what would you say about that 
yeah I mean I like we have four steps 
before you get to an actual date but you 
need to vet this person in a better way 
I mean the only people that are going on 
really disappointing dates right are the 
people that aren't following a 
step-by-step methodology so you're right 
have a quick date with somebody maybe 
it's just a phone call maybe it's a 
video chat but really kind of at least 
kick the tires before you even agree to 
spending an hour with somebody because I 
will tell you guys what when you walk in 
and you're like oh game over an hour is 
an excruciatingly long it is I will tell 
you it counts to three thousand six 
hundred okay there are 60 minutes and 60 
seconds in each minute 60 times 60 is 3 
600 seconds of your life are going to be 
spent with this person so it pays to do 
some vetting before you agree even to 
that one hour a hundred percent and so 
to get along do your vetting I think 
that's actually the best tip of all here 
if you find yourself there and somehow 
you're in a situation you know and it's 
not the most Pleasant just be polite 
that's really the best thing you can do 
and then get out of there 
yeah and one of the things I love that 
you say just taking a step back is that 
conflict doesn't have to be bad let's 
talk 
definitely not conflict is what makes us 
think right conflict is conflict is why 
we have when we have teenagers that's 
why God made teenagers so that we can 
learn more about ourselves in the world 
because they're the best at calling 
everything we say and everything we do 
into question conflict 
when done skillfully and actually 
move all of us in a better Direction 
because we're thinking more holistically 
more globally we're thinking of 
more perspectives more points of view we 
tend especially when we live a 
sort of closed off life we tend to be 
very narrow in how we perceive things 
and I see this all the time in my 
divorce practice people have very clear 
ideas about how things are supposed to 
go and what's really interesting to me 
is that sometimes couples who really 
don't get along very well sometimes they 
actually share the same narrow 
perspective because they've lived in 
their little world together right but 
now that they're going to be separating 
they're going to be bombarded with a 
whole new world of perspectives as they 
start to explore and meet new people 
wow and then what happens exactly so 
conflict when done well 
is really something that we should 
really all welcome into our lives and 
not run from it but when conflict is not 
done well I I hate conflict I'm a very 
conflict diverse person actually too but 
you know there's conflict everywhere and 
I don't shy away from relationships with 
people that I disagree with and that's 
why I'm very passionate about that when 
I have a relationship be it a friend a 
colleague someone even a neighbor 
I'm very comfortable having hard 
conversations in fact I find 
conversations that are hard to be the 
most compelling complicated people and 
complicated relationships that's 
probably why I love doing divorce 
mediation so much right they draw me in 
because there's nothing I want to do 
more than help people resolve them and 
when I'm part of them I love nothing 
more than finding that narrow meeting of 
the minds point the the point where we 
actually don't have to agree to disagree 
or as my son sometimes says to me 
disagree to disagree 
we can actually agree we can get to a 
point where we reach a consensus 
oh man that's so important and you know 
if you're dating somebody okay that's 
gone through divorce 
and they have a difficult X 
is there a way to get along better with 
the X in this situation like what do you 
do especially when people share kids 
there's inevitable exposure you're going 
to have to somebody's ex right so it 
really depends I hesitate to give a 
broad brush stroke 
response to that because sometimes the x 
is so toxic it's just best to steer 
clear yeah other times you 
can get along better with the X than 
your new girlfriend or boyfriend did and 
you might be able to help their 
relationship along 
um because maybe you and the ex are both 
really organized and you can do 
scheduling better or something like that 
I would say the most important thing is 
to not step on the other person's toes 
don't start going to the kids doctor's 
appointments instead of the parent the 
actual parent there's no way to get your 
ex your your new boyfriend or girlfriend 
drawn into court that if you start 
playing mommy or daddy right and even if 
your intentions are great and they 
usually are great I had a client who was 
out there dating and her ex-husband had 
remarried somebody and it was prime time 
for the daughter and the stat mom said 
to the daughter let's go prom dress 
shopping oh God yeah no not the way to 
get along maybe what you can do if 
you're the new person dealing with an ex 
even if you do get along just say hey I 
realize you're super busy if there's 
anything I can do to help with the prom 
Extravaganza you can count on me you 
know what else you can say let's say you 
don't have a daughter and let's say you 
get along kind of a well well with the 
ex you might even be able to say again 
this really is Case by case but you 
might say 
I don't want to step on your toes but I 
would love to come when you pick out the 
prom dress and I promise to be really 
quiet and to give you three or five 
hundred dollars towards the outfit I 
don't know like something like that if 
you really want to go over for the 
wedding dress like there's ways to do it 
so that you're you're you are deferring 
to the other person's 
um position you're not playing mom 
you're just being like the friend and I 
I don't think there's anything wrong 
with that I as the mother of three sons 
um you know I hope somebody lets me pick 
out a dress if my boys marry girls who 
wear dresses exactly exactly that's 
really that's really lovely I know a 
good friend of mine is a columnist in 
Chicago Heidi Stevens and she writes the 
most beautiful article she's divorced 
and from her ex-husband both are now 
remarried and she wrote about how his 
ex-wife even though she and her ex 
didn't get along and clearly they're 
divorced but how the new wife and her 
have mended this relationship such that 
they're all better than ever yeah Heidi 
said I'm the mom on Halloween because 
I'm a working mom that's pulled in 100 
directions I'm a journalist I'll buy the 
costumes right at Walmart for Halloween 
but her axes new wife didn't have any 
kids and was very crafty and so she 
messaged Heidi and said would it be okay 
exactly you know if I sewed the kids 
Halloween costumes and Heidi was like 
okay it would be amazing and it was a 
win-win-win because there was an offer 
this new stepmom was so respectful knew 
how to stay in her Lane what she was 
good at where Heidi could use some help 
asked permission Heidi was a big enough 
person to go I want what's best for my 
kids exactly thank you so much and wrote 
a call about this and it was so resonant 
to people in Chicago that read this it's 
like oh my gosh she can be part of the 
solution and Heidi was like I had to put 
my own ego in check and say oh my gosh 
this woman is not trying to step on my 
toes why wouldn't I let someone else 
love my kids right and I mean not 
everybody can do that and not everybody 
has an ex who is married to somebody who 
sounds as wonderful as Heidi's exes 
exactly but I mean oh my gosh what a 
wonderful story I love that and that's 
that's sort of where I was going with 
the prom dress the wedding dress just 
ask be respectful stay in your lane and 
and all you can do is your best not 
everybody's going to take your bid but 
you can try 
yeah absolutely and back to the conflict 
thing guys here's what I want to tell 
you this is how I coach my clients at 
SDA where like look at conflict as 
imagine you're a rock climber 
and every time you're you're trying to 
climb this Summit and every time you're 
at Point a you know you've got to get up 
to point B right and good well-handled 
conflict is like getting to the next 
point on the mountain or the summit if 
you navigate the treacherous path well 
you're going to take that relationship 
to a better place I have sister-in-laws 
I have a brother I have parents we all 
live within two miles of each other we 
had a family business I've been married 
for 25 years with two teenagers and 
having these rules of engagement number 
one and this rubric around conflict has 
turned our family into something so 
positive in fact my sister-in-law and I 
talk and she said where did you learn 
this like how did your parents teach you 
this they said my parents didn't teach 
us this we learned it by fire we learned 
it by fire my brother and I were both in 
a family business and we realized okay 
we've got to keep our employees our 
clients and our family together in this 
canoe so you become Adept at a young age 
of saying conflict is inevitable in any 
honest relationship I'm gonna say that 
again 
is inevitable for any relationship that 
is authentic if there are two people 
that are living in a space together 
working on a project together have a 
goal together whatever it is and if 
there's no conflict somebody is giving 
in 
that's right and that is a big problem 
by the way acquiescence 
without being honest is a really big 
problem and and 
again I know I sound like this hippie 
Guru person but forgive yourself if 
you're a yes person but but stop it 
because then you wind up being known as 
passive aggressive you say yes you mean 
no but you haven't given yourself that 
pause to really figure out what you want 
I've had this happen so many times in 
divorce mediations before I would spell 
out the rules to my clients 
somebody would give in and it would go 
so quickly but then we realized no no no 
no I don't want anybody to say what they 
want what they're okay with until 
they've had a time to take a step back 
to think about it to really marinate on 
it 
honesty with yourself is absolutely 
essential for the conflict to go well 
that couldn't be more true right and in 
a sense you have to be self-aware and 
put the mirror back to yourself right 
and that's really hard for people I mean 
it's I feel like Bella you and I really 
we got the saying no down pretty well 
with a lot of people don't and it's a 
real skill so and there's a way to say 
no in a way that doesn't hurt people's 
feelings right but also respects where 
you are right I would love to do that 
however I am so strapped for time I love 
what you're doing maybe I can support in 
this other way right if somebody asks 
you to be honest sometimes you don't 
want to be on instead of saying yes 
begrudgingly and then being mad at the 
person 
turn that mirror around to your point 
you're the one that said yes 
right but like some people don't some 
people don't know their minds enough to 
say no in the moment so I'm saying take 
a beat say let me get back to you give 
me till Friday 
I'm not sure what I think there's a 
whole script that you can develop and 
just pick some little catch phrases out 
for yourself so that you have words to 
use to buy yourself time and then 
actually go back and if the answer is no 
say no the world will not crumble if you 
say no you will be resentful if you say 
yes 
exactly I had a client and this is a 
funny story who you know is very cordial 
and polite and was talking to a new 
friend of hers that was sick right let's 
say this friend had you know stage one 
breast cancer like something terrible 
but they weren't really great friends 
but my client said to her is there 
anything I can do for you like send a 
dinner like let me know and this new 
friend said well sure if you'd like to 
send us dinner tonight that'd be great 
and now my client was vexed at this she 
was annoyed and when I had this 
conversation I'm like well okay why are 
you she's like can I just talk to you 
about this situation like I just need to 
vent I said absolutely and so she's like 
I offered this and I mean it was just 
being socially graceful like and but I 
barely know this person but she she took 
me up on it they said well you've got to 
own your part in saying if you offered 
most people would say no no no we're 
really good thank you but there are 
those people that will be like well if 
you're offering who am I to say no right 
we all know those people and so this 
person they're called the New Yorkers 
and they'll say sure send me dinner I'll 
send you exactly what I want and so my 
client was a little vexed at this I'm 
like okay this is a learning moment for 
you from an Integrity standpoint I'm 
like what is going to make you feel good 
well I'm gonna send the dinner even 
though it's gonna cost me 100 bucks and 
I think it's so stupid because we don't 
even know each other I'm like okay but 
you're gonna live in Integrity so she 
sent the dinner I'm like be proud of 
yourself for being a person of Integrity 
okay and it's okay to feel your feelings 
but in the future be mindful of saying 
yes or offering things that you don't 
really want ask yourself do I really 
want to say let me know if there's any 
anything you need like a dinner and if 
somebody takes you up on that the only 
person you can blame at that moment is 
yourself 
there is a woman who 
I I knew for some time and when I was 
having one of my children she said she 
wrote me a card and she said and she 
makes this particular cake that I love 
and she said any day anytime that you 
want this cake I will make a few that is 
your present oh 
so 
I called her for the cake and the first 
time I called it wasn't a good date and 
then I called again for the cake I 
wasn't letting it go I'm the crazy 
person I am I am from Brooklyn and 
Staten Island so I'm just taking a pass 
on there you know 
Gabrielle's like oh wait that's me why 
Illinois well right exactly so wait so 
three times I asked three times she 
didn't deliver the cake so she's dead to 
me 
wow right because why would you offer a 
cake if you're not gonna make it but 
then what happened was years later I was 
having a big birthday and my husband 
cooks really well and he said what would 
you like for dinner and I included the 
name of this person's cake and we 
haven't seen this person in a really 
long time and he said obviously because 
she's dead to you exactly exactly like 
I'd see her at social events I would you 
know she would make cordial conversation 
but like anyway so and I'm sure she 
thought I was like crazy calling her for 
the cake so anyway so it's my birthday 
birthday and he's and it's years and 
years have gone by and my husband says 
I was gonna make you whatever kind of 
cake I said no I want this cake now you 
all know how crazy I am 
so you called her a fourth time so he 
Tracked Down the recipe and she made him 
promise never to share it with anybody 
but I have the recipe and he made me the 
cake and he makes it all the time and 
it's fabulous 
oh my God that what kind of cake is it I 
feel like I can't say in case she 
listens to the podcast it's just 
chocolate cake it's chocolate cake but 
it is the best chocolate cake and we 
cannot share the recipe but low-key 
you can 
I'm not answering but low-key so 
Gabrielle's offering to all of you eat a 
chocolate cake 
excited me 
and I want you all to take her up on it 
and message her multiple times 
but this is so funny how these little 
things that we can do and we do these 
you know and because some of us 
especially women were programmed to be 
nice even though we don't want to do it 
she didn't want to make the cake you 
just want to make the cake we're not 
friends fine we're not friends I felt 
like writing her a note saying like 
we're not friends but I just got the 
recipe and we're good now I like her 
again I have the recipe we're good 
that's better than the cake it's the 
gift that keeps on giving 
that's how I get along absolutely stalk 
and get the recipe that's Gabriel's next 
book 
stock the chocolate cake so I think look 
I'm obviously not a person who runs from 
conflict 
but I generally get along with people 
and I would say you know what once once 
we're friends that's it you know once 
you enter that Vortex there's no leaving 
unless you don't unless you don't bake 
for me unless you promise me something 
and you don't deliver in that case 
you're dead to me but and and I think 
that this is really important because if 
you find yourself to be that person I 
have definitely been that person to be 
like oh my God call me if you need 
anything right even though I've got 17 
bajillion things going on and now after 
helping that client through that 
situation it has made me turn the mirror 
to myself and say only offer things that 
I will do because I learn through 
coaching my clients situations it's like 
wow that could happen to anybody so I 
need to get to people I need to be more 
polite I I actually lost a friend maybe 
we should maybe you have to cut this out 
we're not cutting anything we're not 
cutting anything I had a friend who I 
really adored and we are still friends 
but um she had a big life event and I 
knew I couldn't be there and I was a 
little bit too direct and I was like in 
the moment I was like I know I can't 
come and she was like and she's Southern 
and she's like wow you didn't even 
pretend and I was like well I know I 
can't I so I've had to learn to be a 
little less direct to your point yeah 
and saying things saying things take a 
beat take a beat and know how would and 
this is another thing we teach a lot at 
Smart dating Academy because we're going 
on dates right it's like how would you 
feel if you received the message that 
you just gave exactly exactly and that's 
the definition of empathy right I do the 
same thing with um the private divorce 
solution it's like okay this is what you 
want what if we flip it around and they 
get what you're asking for does that 
feel good or does something about that 
feel not quite right 
right and it's delivering a message to 
someone in a way that you would feel 
okay about receiving and take a beat 
before you you know because in today's 
world God loved therapy God loved 
boundaries okay but we're so quick at 
this point to be like you've violated a 
boundary I can't do that that's over 
time that you and again 
assume positive intent nobody's trying 
to violate your boundaries they don't 
know your invisible boundaries only you 
know where your spray-painted bright 
white lines are I can't see your 
invisible bright white line so come from 
a place of love and say that person 
doesn't know that I don't take calls 
after 6 PM that person doesn't know 
whatever it is that I really want to 
come to her party but I'm not able to 
right so it's exactly it's 
being kind in your Communications to 
people I think is such an underrated 
skill and as we move forward in the 
workplace right and as we want to get 
promoted as we want to build new 
friendships new relationships 
understanding how to say yes in the 
right way and understand how to say no 
in a way that doesn't turn people off is 
is going to be so crucial to our growth 
and we have to keep growing we have to 
keep learning and we have to be open to 
continuing to learn 
oh I'm so with you well are there any 
other things that you want to tell us 
about you know your secrets to getting 
along making it easier any last gems you 
want to drop on us so I would just say 
that if anyone has any questions 
particularly if you pre-order a copy of 
the secret to getting along and I'll 
give Bella all the information 
between now and May 15th and then you go 
on to the website which Bella will 
include in the show notes at 
gabriellehartly.com 
um I'm going to be hosting a live 
webinar where you can submit questions 
and I can I will be answering them live 
for you and if you're going through a 
separation or a divorce or if you're 
getting married and you're looking for 
prenup mediation just go to 
gabriellehartly.com 
and con and hit the contact or give me a 
call and let's talk 
well Gabrielle thank you so much for 
being on congratulations on your future 
best-selling book that has been called a 
must read you guys by Malcolm Gladwell 
Daniel pink Adam Grant and Susan Keynes 
I mean like wow that's amazing Gabrielle 
so I can't wait to read your book and 
I'm sure smart daters will all want to 
read your book as well we'll put a link 
to it in the show notes so as Gabrielle 
said you can pre-order it and join her 
free webinar and um for those of you 
that this resonated with and you feel 
like gosh I could use some help in my 
messaging maybe that's text messaging in 
the apps with your emails how you're 
comporting yourself on dates if you're 
not getting the second third and fourth 
dates and you're scratching your head 
maybe it's time for a consultation maybe 
you should go to smartdatingacademy.com 
and fill out form where we can actually 
help you to get along with your dates in 
a better way so you're getting the 
second third fourth and fifth date with 
the people you want so Gabrielle again 
thank you so much for being here your 
gift to the world and 
um smart daters until next week find 
someone that you can get along with in a 
better way and let us know how you do 
that DM us put it in the comments on 
Instagram this week we'll be reading 
them all until next week we'll see you 
then 


this has been a really special week for 
me personally for those of you who might 
have been following me on Facebook or 
Instagram you know that May 17th Andy my 
husband and I celebrated our 26 year 
wedding anniversary people ask us all 
the time like you guys got married so 
young you've made it work for 26 years 
so we sat down and really thought about 
things we thought would help you at a 
meta level I realized that over all this 
time being married we've learned a whole 
lot about what it takes to be a good 
partnership and I've learned a 
tremendous amount about how to be a good 
partner and I realize over over the 
years there are all these lessons that 
have come into my mind and it just 
seemed to make sense to put it all 
together and put it all in one place so 
that I can relearn it and keep it top of 
mind and teach our kids the those 
learnings Etc 
[Music] 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love one of the 
biggest questions I get from everybody 
is oh my God how do I flirt how do I 
increase my confidence so today I cannot 
tell you how excited I am to give you 
guys the gift of my friend Kimmy Seltzer 
who is a confidence therapist authentic 
dating strategist and an image expert 
Kim thank you for being on oh this is so 
special thank you for having me on I 
mean we were just talking about off air 
like we met so many years 
ago and I love that we're here now 
together on your podcast on my podcast 
and quick insiders note and I'll know 
that you listen to this Kimmy and I grew 
up in neighboring suburbs in glenw and 
Northbrook Illinois and we went to 
Sister rival high school so there you go 
so hi five girlfriend I know but we're 
not Rivals thank God we're we're friends 
now absolutely 100% so let's Dive Right 
into this so you've got a great 
background Kimmy you were a a 
relationship you were a therapist and 
then found your calling in helping 
people build their dating style their 
dating confidence their flirting skills 
so tell me what is your magic for 
formula the Charisma quotient and tell 
us how do you use all of this and all of 
your juice to build this sexy but 
authentic dating confidence let's just 
go into it yeah I mean I would be a Miss 
if I didn't share a little bit about my 
story and how I got into this because as 
you explained right like I was a 
therapist and I still infused therapy 
into um helping people but really the 
reason why I'm so passionate about doing 
what I do is because of my own story and 
the Charisma quotient came out of that 
to be honest and you know I was again 
this good girl from Chicago leaving you 
know the Chicago life at the picket 
fence and I had the dog and the kids and 
the husband I don't have the husband 
anymore you know where the story is 
going right 
so we picked up and I had that 
traditional life and I really thought 
that that's where my life was going to 
be and in that moment of time I really 
believed in working on the inside out 
like right coming from that place of 
working really 
on who you are and the and all that 
juicy stuff that we do on the inside but 
then my own story happened and why I 
flip the script on all of this because 
we moved across the country we land here 
in la la land uh LA and we do it all the 
other people here do we get a divorce 
and joking obviously issues insert in 
story and what you know here I am that 
just all alone in my new Castle not 
knowing what to do with my new life 
basically and 
I I everything that I knew in the 
traditional sense just went out the 
window and I was in this like really sad 
space and place and my clothes reflected 
it okay so if you saw me back then I 
would not be wearing pink first of all 
those of you who are seeing me right now 
I was in all black with my my nursing 
bras I wasn't even nursing any longer 
and my birken stocks and I was like how 
am I going to attract a man looking like 
this this right but I was hilarious I 
was so sad you know and I it was I call 
it my black period because it really 
reflected my mindset I was stuck in my 
clothes stuck in my mindset I did not 
know how to get out of my own way and 
here's the kicker I was a therapist I 
should know better but if anyone were to 
come to me in that time I would been 
like you think you have issues let me 
let me go on the couch for a second 
right and everything inside like in that 
I knew about that I could help others 
with I could not even help myself with 
and I did the work Bella I did the work 
I had the counseling I did all of 
that but again there I was stuck in my 
clothes and my mindset going and your 
nursing bras and your black wardrobe I'm 
just thinking of you no so unsexy like 
and 
so I did something very 
non-traditional I looked in the mirror 
one one day and I was like okay I am 
horrified at what I see here I I'm going 
shopping this is where it all like the 
Charisma quoti started here so I do 
shopping therapy and I know you do this 
with your clients as well because I mean 
really like if you're looking a certain 
way not feeling it like that's one of 
the reasons why I wasn't going after it 
so I I go into the store and what am I 
doing I'm doing what I always do I'm 
pulling black clothes and I think I'm 
upleveling myself because 
I'm buying new clothes and I'm putting 
them in my arms and this personal 
shopper I now call her my angel she came 
up to me and she says 
ma'am I I've been watching you and I 
really think you should try this on and 
she holds up the red 
dress oh I red dress and I said that's 
so sweet of you but that's really not my 
size and that's really not my color she 
says honey that is your color that is 
your size m bam your shopping Angel was 
like yes sweet girl that is your damn 
color you're hot and you need red and I 
caught my red dress moment because it 
was like she hit me over the head with 
that red dress and I came to and you 
know when certain people give you these 
messages in your life and you're really 
able to hear it yeah I heard it it was 
like a megaphone in my ear try it on and 
so I I I grab it I try it on I twirl 
around like Cinderella 
oh bam I look in the mirror and I was 
like wow I just kept staring at myself 
I'm like there she is like this is this 
is who I am but I didn't see myself for 
so long and I I realized that there was 
this visceral response that was 
happening when I tried on the red dress 
so I bought it that day as a costume and 
I called it a costume because I didn't 
really like believe it yet I had to 
marinate in it and so I walked out into 
the world and all this magic started 
happening right new suitors began to 
come my way and all this opportunity 
started knocking on my door I think 
that's when I met you possibly maybe 
shortly year after um but I realized 
there was a symbiotic relationship 
between the outer and the inner when it 
came to confidence that it was not 
superficial that how you feel on the 
outside really reflects how you feel on 
the inside and you have to work on both 
so that's where the Charisma quotient 
was born and now I believe that you have 
to work from the outside in and so what 
the formula speaks to is really three 
pillars is first working on what I call 
your style intelligence which is how you 
Market yourself it's your clothes it's 
your body language it's your first 
impressions it's your energy then I go 
Inward and work on your emotional 
intelligence and that's how you express 
yourself your vulnerability the 
authenticity how you you really like 
show up and express that and the third 
pillar is your social intelligence and 
that's how you manage interpersonal you 
know relationships and yes that includes 
flirting so that's where flirting comes 
in and so when I work with people I 
really look at those three pillars and 
help people like really develop skills 
in each of those areas because that's 
what's going to get you the results 
because that's what happened to me and 
and that I love helping others with it 
too what a great story and I love your 
red dress moment and I want every 
listener you out there whether you're 
commuting or driving or taking a walk or 
sitting at your desk listening to this I 
want you to have your red dress moment 
and maybe you're dude and you're not 
quite feeling like you need a red dress 
moment but I'm sure Kimmy and I will 
come up with another metaphor for you oh 
oh yeah for sure oh guys have red dress 
moments too but it's not a dress right 
right right so for the people listening 
what would you tell them what is step 
one right now you said style emotional 
int emotional intelligence and social 
intelligence and we're going to work now 
from the outside in which I love right 
because it's kind of counter to what 
we're all taught what is step one for 
our dear listener who is listening right 
now what can they do something they can 
do today to start to build their own 
Charisma well and this is why I love 
working on the outside first because 
it's something that's in you know 
there's not too many things in life that 
you get that instant 
gratification and the results and 
there's nothing like looking at your 
wardrobe and doing a wardrobe audit 
right and saying to yourself how how am 
I marketing myself you know and because 
I realized for myself that the black 
clothes were really acting as a cloak to 
keep me invisible from men because I was 
scared quite honestly it's like if even 
if I got the attention I didn't know 
what to do with it so really taking hard 
look at how you're putting yourself out 
there and I have a formula because you 
asked about you know something tangible 
I call it the three C's and everybody 
can do this with their own closet like 
just take a look at the clothes that you 
have and look at these three areas 
number one do you have color right like 
I talk about color and color are 
attractive colors I know you teach this 
as well like when a woman wears red or 
pink she will get more action online and 
off like it there's scientific proof 
around this right so I always teach 
people to be comfortable and get a shade 
of red or pink that really works for 
their skin tone because it's different 
for every skin tone number two is get 
the cut of clothes that is right for 
them um you know every body has a 
different body shape and so for women 
there's five body shapes for men there's 
three and I have a little gift at the 
end that I will share with you so you 
can determine thank you drop yeah I that 
will determine your your body shape but 
once you know what clothes flatter your 
figure and what clothes to stay away 
from it builds your confidence in your 
clothes so that's huge and number three 
is just looking at the clothes that make 
you feel confident so I call it 
confident clothes everyone has a go-to 
outfit right like if you had a date 
tomorrow or you have a social event what 
what is it that you're putting on and 
figure out the why do you get 
complimented in it do you feel 
comfortable do you um you know just like 
the way it feels because that is going 
to exude a certain energy right like 
when you walk into a room and you know 
the first impression I mean Bella you 
probably know this it's only seven 
seconds now like that's crazy it was 30 
seconds I think two years ago so you 
know what you say isn't even as 
important as how you show up in that 
initial hit and if you get good feedback 
in that initial hit that's going to give 
you the confidence to move on oh my gosh 
I love that you guys so the first thing 
to do like Kimmy says is take a look at 
your wardrobe do a wardrobe audit and if 
you can't hire a stylist like Kimmy 
she's in LA and you might be listening 
from wherever you are you could get 
somebody local to help you or I'm sure 
Kimmy would do a zoom audit of your 
closet or if you can't spring for that 
or you're not ready for that have 
someone in your life who speaks truth 
who will be candid with you I have those 
people in my own life just letting you 
know and you know who you are if you're 
listening as well as stylists that work 
with my clients but really to say yeah 
no that that doesn't look good on you 
I've had that many people and I'll just 
you know we're talking about 
vulnerability I've always weight is 
something that I've struggled with it's 
always my struggle it's up 10 down 20 up 
10 and having people people that will 
tell you the truth about what you're 
wearing I go through phases of my life 
where I'll wear a tent when I'm not 
feeling good about myself and my makeup 
artist Ana will tell me okay you've got 
yards of extra cloth hanging off of your 
body this is really unflattering so 
having people that will tell you yeah 
that looks good on you or that not so 
much why do you like that and people 
will ask me to Kimmy's Point why does 
this why do you want to wear that dress 
right well makes me feel good because it 
hides no you don't want that so have 
people around you that are going to help 
you to do that audit just like with 
online dating photos and I'm sure you 
know this too this research shows we 
don't pick the best photos of 
ourselves others to do that for us so 
here if you take something from this 
with this great advice kimm is giving 
you do not think that you're going to go 
in there and do this on your own what 
you probably can do on your own is say 
yeah I need more color because my 
wardrobe looks like Darth Vader or Luke 
Skywalkers which is like all black or 
all white I was a former all black gray 
I thought white and cream were colors 
right like that's fine and gray is a 
color no and now my closet looks like 
Skittles so here are some thing so I can 
tell you personally Kimmy went through 
this I went through this and we teach 
this now so if this resonates with you 
build a village of people around you 
hire Kimmy get get some help help us out 
there guys you don't have to go this 
alone I love that and you know the some 
of the things that you were talking 
about too I do virtual makeovers by the 
way too so I I help people all over but 
it it is having an outside perspective 
it's hard to see yourself but beyond 
that also what is a sexy style so 
there's a difference between having just 
like a professional style or a mommy 
style or a daddy style than a dating 
style and not too many people pay 
attention to what the opposite sex likes 
you know and so that's super fun also 
looking at what makes you feel sexy but 
also how you're advertising yourself 
right because there was a woman um that 
I was working with and she came to me 
just for you know dating coaches she's 
like Kimmy help me talk to men and I you 
know my Style's fine it doesn't need any 
tweaking or that kind of thing and and 
she's actually coming on my podcast 
because she's one of my success stories 
because she she she came and she showed 
up in this huge Shaw she was like like 
like a cocoon wrapped up in a black Shaw 
even though her her clothes were 
expensive and they were nice they were 
not serving her in the dating world you 
know and even the clothes underneath the 
shaw were just kind of big and loose and 
dull colors and the first thing you know 
what the first thing I had her do was 
wear red lipstick for a week I said just 
wear red lipstick and see the impact it 
has just on you and how other people's 
re people receive it she came back she's 
like oh my gosh Kimmy that red bullet 
that magic Red Bullet I'm like what 
happened she's like well I did it and 
all these guys started talking to me I 
didn't know what the heck was going on 
and so it really like again it was 
symbiotic right because men kind of 
noticed this brightness about her and 
then it gave her the courage to talk 
back and from there I created a monster 
quite honestly because then I got her 
like all these sexy clothes and lots of 
bling and color and she just started 
feeling sexy cuz here at the end of the 
day this is what I want everyone to get 
it's not about changing who you are it's 
about marketing yourself so someone gets 
to know who you are and when you love 
you and you look in the mirror and you 
say I'm sexy that's when the other 
people will too absolutely and how you 
dress makes a big impact on your own 
confidence and it's this virtuous cycle 
when you have that red dress moment 
right it goes from the outside in you 
start to see oh wow people are looking 
at me differently maybe I do look pretty 
maybe I can own this color and own this 
dress and that builds your confidence 
and then you carry yourself differently 
and then when you feel that confidence 
from the inside how do you think people 
on the outside start your response so 
it's this amazing virtuous cycle so 
Kimmy when you get men and women coming 
in coming in for makeovers like what are 
some tips that you can give our women 
and our men listening to this especially 
if they're called out in the dating 
world or they just want something they 
just want something to do tonight for a 
date there on tell us what women want 
from men what men want from women I 
guess what women want from women just 
give us your best right right oh my gosh 
that's a big question I'll try to I'll 
I'll try to narrow it down for each sex 
so I mean let's start with the men I 
call them man overs so men I love I love 
you men because you're you're very um 
more simple in the way way that you 
think right and I men are all about 
what's effective and what's efficient 
and so when I do manover a lot of times 
men are like okay do you like this all 
right I'll get five of them you know 
like if you if you know some key pieces 
to wear then it'll be a lot easier but 
here's what men need to know is that 
women do care and we do look men always 
think that oh they're the only visual 
ones uhuhuh we're all Visual and and if 
anything Sometimes women are worse um 
but for men I would say a big mistake 
that they make and one thing they can do 
right now is that they wear things too 
big so if you haven't been shopping in a 
while man um I it would behoove you to 
either you know hire Bella or myself or 
have an outside perspective and help you 
get like some updated styles that are 
more fitted okay and and also like to 
your point when people gain weight a lot 
of times people wear things bigger 
feeling like it conceals that area it's 
actually the opposite yeah when you wear 
things more fitted it'll actually make 
you look thinner and longer and leaner 
even though it's counterintuitive so for 
men that would be my tip now for women I 
would say that every woman needs a dress 
in their wardrobe that is something that 
most men find attractive if that's what 
you're into um and it also makes you 
feel more feminine but I get a lot of 
push back from women because it's like 
oh I I live in a cold climate or that's 
not me um I love working if that's you 
with you women and finding a style that 
does work for you because there is 
something about a woman in a dress that 
has a beautiful just kind of feminine 
flare both in her energy and also it's 
easier to put on quite honestly it's 
easier to throw in a dress that it is 
pairing all these different things so 
once you find this style and the brand 
that works for you it becomes actually 
really fun I've had that happen to a lot 
of women it's so interesting when I 
started in when I started Smart dating 
Academy you know I had come out of the 
corporate world and I worked for a 
manufacturing company and I was you know 
Hillary Clinton's vice president of 
panits constantly black gray and now I 
have an entire rack of dresses my 
wardrobe people joke it looks like 
Skittles here's the red and here's the 
yellow here's the orange and here the 
green but really to Kimmy's Point 
finding yourself that dress and I 
promise you every day at Smart dating 
Academy when we're saying men love 
feminine Styles and I know you know 
Rachel Greenwald and Rachel me and 
Rachel wrote this great book um called 
have him at hello and in that book she 
says that 84% of men surveyed and this 
is men from their 20s to their 70s 
across all socioeconomic and educational 
backgrounds 84% that they would would 
love said that they would love to see 
their first date showing up in a dress 
or a skirt right so the data is there 
and she surveyed I think over 1500 men 
on that so what Kimmy is saying and what 
I'm telling you is right and there are 
so many different types of dresses and 
styles and once you start with a dress 
and dresses to Kimmy is from Chicago so 
she knows we are cold and gray eight 
months of the year all the way to Living 
in Sunny La La Land and the dress if 
you're in the midwest if you're in the 
Northeast and it's cold you can do 
tights you can do cute boots you can do 
a cute cardigan and a belt over a dress 
there's so many ways that you can play 
up your femininity over a dress but 
immediately when you put that dress on 
it gives you a little bit of that 
feminine girly energy and I know that 
again remember because I was the 
manufacturing pants suit Queen and yes 
you can all give me you can all give me 
your flack around that because I don't 
talk about that that often oh my God we 
would be hot Commodities together the 
Hillary Clinton look with a frumpy mommy 
yeah was really B nurs and pants suits 
horrible yeah it's not a good combo but 
but to your point like yeah when you 
when when you put it on it you do like 
you said embody a different energy and I 
work a lot with body language you know I 
do these wingal sessions where I go out 
in the field and I work with people on 
how to flirt how to interact and 
a lot of times women and men don't 
realize that like if they're not putting 
themselves out there even with the 
clothes that they 
wear it affects their body language they 
seem like they're hiding more in their 
body you know and so when I do these 
manover makeovers what have you first 
before doing the wingal session it's 
it's like night and day it's night and 
day how they move in even to the room 
they're standing a little bit taller you 
slow down your walk you know smiling 
making eye contact I know we're bleeding 
more into the social intelligence but no 
let's go there let's go there let's go 
there let's go there go into this go 
into flirting it's so super juicy I love 
that you do these wing woman or wing 
girl sessions tell us you know three to 
five things flirting makes even the most 
confident person go oh my God I'm 
confident but I don't know how to flirt 
and I tell them flirting is about 
connecting right don't make it so 
daunting so tell us what we can do if 
we're men if we're women as we're coming 
out of pandemic knock on wood and we go 
back to social events we're socially 
anxious right number one so you need to 
get yourselves back out there so Kimmy 
give us your best on how do we take now 
we've resty ourselves we've got color 
we've got cut we've got great pieces 
we've had a wardrobe audit now we're 
going into the real world what how do I 
flirt how do I flirt oh Bella oh my god 
well you're a flirt first of all you did 
it naturally and to your point it is 
about connection and energy but here's 
the thing and I like literally we could 
probably do a whole other podcast on 
this because I'm so passionate about 
this topic I do flirt workshops now and 
um both with men and women and we do a 
lot of practice and here's the thing 
that's fascinating about flirting is 
that it raises a lot of hairs right and 
eyebrows when you say that word there's 
so many associations around it so I love 
asking people what their definition of 
flirting is and from a therapist point 
of view a lot of us have attachments to 
that word for many different reasons and 
that trips us up but here's the kicker 
when you look in the dictionary of what 
flirting is it's to behave as though you 
are attracted to someone without the 
serious intention of an outcome and I 
love that because that last part being 
attached to the outcome is what trips 
everybody up because flirting is not 
supposed to be about and and here's what 
the fears are and excuses I hear well I 
don't want to give that person the wrong 
you know idea I want him to like me for 
my intelligence not my body I'm not good 
at it um you know it Go the list goes on 
and on and on but the truth is it's not 
about any of that it's about being 
playful and connecting and creating a 
magnetic energy that just draws people 
to you in that moment and when you let 
go of the outcome you let go of the 
anxiety of all the things that but what 
ifs you need to think about what is and 
so a lot of the sexual connotations that 
people have around it also is what trips 
people up but if you think of it being 
more in your play than anything else it 
it really helps people but letting go 
and playing is really hard for a lot of 
people so when I'm teaching them um a 
couple things right like style is 
definitely part of it and that's the 
first thing is first you got to address 
the part but then how do you embody it 
so the second is the body language and 
there are a lot of different body 
language tips that I love um giving 
people you know both men and women have 
different body signals and there's so 
much research out there and even the 
subconscious signals but I would say on 
a very simple level really paying 
attention to the eye contact and smiling 
and that's for both sexes you know 
because we to your point we've been 
wearing the masks we're coming out of 
the pandemic just because we had our 
mask on didn't mean we couldn't make eye 
contact yet none of us did we avoided 
eye contact and smiling with that mask 
so our social muscle is a little 
atrophied and so we need to exercise it 
but a lot of you might not have been 
exercised even before the pandemic hit 
so really just going out and practicing 
making eye contact and smiling and just 
saying hi it's such a simple thing but I 
promise you when you do that that's the 
first you know connection that you make 
there's so many rbfs out there I don't 
know if I can say what that means on 
this podcast res in face people 
right we all know it I mean I didn't 
make it up but it's a known thing and 
this is real people like I've seen it 
and I'm trying to eradicate it one by 
one but you know even when you think 
you're you're not doing the rbfs a lot 
of people are and it's just we're so 
busy and we're so like pulled in so just 
opening yourself up and smiling is the 
first thing um and then just like the 
posture too you know being open with 
your posture and slowing down the walk 
and really notice who's no noticing you 
yeah like that is huge like all these 
people that I coach they're going a mile 
a minute I'm like oh wait did you just 
see that person checking you out oh no I 
was just so busy getting to where we're 
gonna go I'm like well you're so busy to 
where you're going to go try to go flirt 
then you miss the opportunity to flirt 
in between you know so it's it's just an 
interesting thing to like slow down and 
think about and then the final thing I 
teach about is is communication right 
conversation tricks how we move a 
conversation that's again a whole other 
thing so I love so much of what you said 
I love everything you said and I think 
if you guys if you're listening to this 
right and you're still hung up on the 
word flirting and you think that means 
you have to stick your boobs out or you 
know dress hoochie or you know dudes 
you've got to be like Rico Suave no what 
Kimmy said was great and I'm gonna 
paraphrase the definition of flirting 
but it's making someone feel like you're 
attracted to them this is not about you 
it's making the other person feel good 
about themselves like you are interested 
in them so if you're fully invested in 
making that person across from you feel 
good about themselves you know what you 
cannot do concurrently you cannot be 
anxious about yourself so if your goal 
is I'm just going to go out and flirt 
with five people in the grocery store 
okay and I have my clients do this I 
don't care if they're men I don't care 
if it's the stocking guy I don't care if 
it's the cashier or the old lady look at 
people smile and say something nice look 
for what is good in them and then tell 
them what's good that is your first step 
in being an amazing flirt is making 
people feel good about themselves and 
that's not manipulative when you look 
for what's authentically good in 
somebody all you're doing is putting 
more love into the World by telling them 
what's good about them what you notice 
about them I would say Kimmy I love love 
love your hot pink shirt it is gorgeous 
and your matching Berry lip you're like 
so on point and you're so bright and 
beautiful looking right and when you 
look for what's good in somebody and you 
tell them you are giving them love and 
guess what they're going to do they're 
going to give you or someone else love 
it's the best way to elevate the 
vibration for yourself and to practice 
flirting it is not about you it is about 
about making the other person feel good 
about themselves and not being attached 
to the outcome exactly and Bella I think 
you just flirted with me were you just 
demonstrating the flirt I was I was I 
wanted to 
see I wanted to see if we could grab a 
cocktail together oh my God pleas but 
that is the point of what Bella is 
saying is that like you know too many 
times we get to Target specific and who 
we're flirting with too is that when you 
let go of that and you flirt with 
you know babies and dogs and girls and 
boys and like all it's flirting with 
life that's when opportunity happens 
because you don't know who's watching 
you your magnetic energy is going to be 
so attractive no matter where you are I 
have so many stories around that where 
you know people met people just because 
they were flirting with someone else and 
someone else noticed them you know and 
so it's not always the person that 
you're talking to but also not worrying 
about what that person is about people 
worry like oh well that person's married 
or maybe that person is a girlfriend 
boyfriend just make a connection to your 
point you know when you said that um 
there was a woman I I coached this is 
just a cute funny story based on what 
we're talking about and she was trying 
to learn how to flirt so I was 
demonstrating with her at the bar and 
everything and it was her turn to 
initiate and who sits next to her but a 
a a gentleman who is like 20 years our 
senior and he was married like 
everything was against you know like 
what she thought that she could do when 
it came to flirting so she looked at me 
she's like Kimmy I can't I said oh yes 
you can I expect when I get back from 
the bathroom that you're gonna be 
talking to him and so she's like oh okay 
so I get back and she is talking to him 
and we start flirting and having fun he 
was awesome okay just awesome he was 
married he was from New Zealand funny 
funny funny guy and he was telling the 
story of how he met his wife and it was 
just beautiful and and halfway through 
the conversation he's like are either 
one of you single by chance I said' oh 
yeah my friend is who was my client and 
he says oh great I I really thought you 
would say that and I I was hoping that 
because I have a friend for you I said 
well where is he bring him out and he's 
like I will so we you know we get 
information and we met him out later and 
I created like a monster because we had 
like guys around us and we're flirting 
and in walks the New Zealander with his 
friend who was dropped at gorgeous my 
client's age they hit it off and they 
ended up dating so it's like like think 
about the the it all started from 
talking to a married man who she never 
thought so really learning to not 
getting attached to the outcome and 
making those connections is just crucial 
oh my gosh and so how did she start the 
conversation with him at the bar like 
give us a because I know everyone's like 
I want the hot New Zealand guy how do I 
start conversation because here's and 
I'll start it with what most people are 
afraid of most people are afraid of the 
rejection or I'm married or getting some 
sort of a negative response so how do 
you overcome the fear of rejection the 
fear of saying something wrong into 
starting a conversation I'm so glad you 
asked that because that's one of the 
things that I do and as a therapist I 
know like there actually are five dating 
fears that I talk about a lot I'm not 
going to go into all of them but the top 
one being rejection and that's what 
trips us all up a lot of time so it's 
like first of all the the best way of 
getting over that fear is doing it over 
and over and over again right like that 
that's why I consider myself a 
strategist more than even a coach or a 
therapist these days because I just 
think we need strategies that are put in 
place that create new habits and how you 
do that is just putting yourself in 
practice over and over and over again 
the more you do it the less of a hit 
it'll be um anything that will help 
ground you before walking in into you 
know a situation taking a deep breath 
you know like listening to music getting 
more in your body is going to really 
help with that too I I find that like 
nine times out of 10 that people who get 
really nervous or get you know like 
attached to the outcome and all that are 
in their heads like how many of you 
listening are in your head all the time 
and if you can get out of your head and 
stop overanalyzing everything and get 
more into your body that's going to help 
so dance put on music you know do things 
that will really get into that Spirit of 
being flirty and fun um and then finally 
it's really understanding some of those 
conversation tricks like I have a social 
engagement formula that I teach people 
that moves conversations from your head 
into something that's more personal 
storytelling and fun and I think that's 
another mistake that people make is that 
they'll have a conversation well they'll 
they they'll start with like a very 
factual safe boring kind of conversation 
the best conversations are usually 
Whimsical and playful you know and so 
that can be really hard for a lot of 
people and learning how to to do that is 
just it it makes conversations more fun 
and also be more connected when you come 
from a place of something that's more 
personal than factual I love that can 
you give us like some hints around this 
social engagement formula so people can 
kind of wrap their head around how do 
you not be boring I think that's another 
fear people oh my God I'm boring I'm not 
a good conversationalist I don't have 
anything to say like oh what do you do 
for work what about you where do you 
live like how do we you open up with 
something playful or whimsical is it 
about preparing no it's just the 
opposite okay good I'm learning too you 
guys oh my God no people ask me all the 
time Kimmy can you just give me a couple 
lines that I can say just a script and 
the answer is n oh no because that is 
the reason why you're tripping up in the 
first place is that you're you're trying 
to analyze and memorize versus just be 
and so for I I work with a lot of high 
Achievers I know you do too and if 
you're a perfectionist High achiever 
this is counterintuitive for you because 
you want to study right you want to 
study the script so that you can go in 
feeling better um one thing I will say 
again it's a bigger conversation um and 
obviously like when I work with people 
it's it's putting them into practice of 
this Stu 
is when you're getting away from the 
facts and you're getting more personal 
in the way that you ask questions that's 
that's like the first thing so you and 
also don't be scared of playing a game 
the thing that a lot of people get into 
is the Q&A sessions right I call it the 
LinkedIn exchange right right like oh 
horrible like or even the DMS right 
you've seen this you know how are you 
I'm good how are you I'm fine how is 
your oh my God don't do it so don't be 
scared about having a little fun and 
answering a question with a question for 
instance so if somebody asks you what do 
you do for a living I'll just give a tip 
right here because this is what I do 
with all my 
clients I go back and say what do you 
think I do and I play a game like how 
fun is that like then you're getting 
these people to guess what you do for a 
living do you know that nine times out 
of 10 I never even say what I do like 
people don't really care it's more fun 
playing a guessing game on what you do 
than actually what you do for a living 
you can have that conversation on 
LinkedIn if you want and if you end up 
dating that person great it's not about 
what you do it's about the passion and 
the personality and the feelings that 
you have when you're with somebody 
because if you like that person if 
there's a feeling that gets solicited 
from that interaction that's when you 
want to move on with them it's not about 
what you know it's about how you feel I 
love that that's so funny that reminds 
me of a story a client of mine High 
achiever in her early early 30s went to 
Harvard and came back to Chicago and 
said okay I'm hiring you because when 
I'm here and I'm out and when people are 
like oh where'd you go to school I said 
it's like dropping the hbomb right it's 
the Harvard bomb and suddenly guys go 
screaming away like oh you're that and 
so we deployed we gamified it and this 
is exactly so when they would ask 
Lindsay where did you go to school and 
she said you know what I'm G to give you 
guesses and I'll tell you if you're 
getting warmer or colder right because 
what is that that is the antithesis of 
what you would expect an Ivy League 
graduate to do you would expect them to 
say well I went to Harvard University in 
Cambridge how about you and when she 
gamified this she's like I'm gonna give 
you three chances to guess where I went 
they're like I don't know maybe you went 
to U ofi maybe you went to Michigan 
because then she seemed like a good 
homegrown Midwestern fun girl in a bar 
and so by the time they got to the third 
guest no one ever ever ever guessed it 
was Harvard and by that time she would 
smile and she's like okay I'm gonna drop 
the hom I actually went to Harvard and 
then I came back here because I love the 
Midwest right and so now she's already 
established herself as somebody fun and 
playful in their minds and she is now 
married and she has two babies 
a it I'll start with the game no 
but be playful and around that because 
you asked about kind of the story too 
what was so good about that is it got 
her into this kind of playful State and 
so he probably liked that you know just 
that the playfulness of the conversation 
and if somebody asks you about school 
like that's another mistake that people 
make is that they'll answer at face 
value and say I went to Harvard like 
even if it wasn't Harvard even if it was 
just another College then people get 
that into that fact driven conversation 
so I I went to Harvard University I 
studied law and speech communication and 
they go into the CL if you get into your 
story like that also is effective so and 
you know you could say I went to Harvard 
and gosh I loved Harvard it was a time 
in my life where I just felt so carefree 
and I have the funniest story to share 
with you when you know and then start 
going into the story of something that 
happened to you because again that is 
that story is more rooted into the 
person again versus the fact 
that's right and remember as human 
beings we are our brains are wired to 
remember stories yes right we were 
storytellers and ancient I mean if you 
think back thousands and thousands and 
thousands of years ago before we had 
written language and we could write out 
our stories and pass them down to 
generation to generation we told stories 
and so our brains are wired to remember 
and to receive and to be captivated by 
story so when you think of what's made 
you you it's funny we have we have a 
module that we work on with our clients 
called the dating resume and it's 
preparing for a date like you would 
prepare for a job interview but not over 
prepping Kim to your point it's more 
thinking about fun stories about 
yourself about things that you did at 
work growing up so that you can have 
these playful conversations but 
sometimes it's hard like you need to sit 
back and go oh my God I never thought 
about this is so funny I won a hula hoop 
contest in fifth grade that's so cute 
right and talking about these things 
that make you you because if you're 
sitting there listening and you're 
telling yourself I'm boring I don't have 
anything interesting about me I promise 
you call me call Kimmy you are not 
boring every human being and you 
listener listening to this podcast with 
smart people I promise you you are a 
beautiful tapestry of a bunch of 
different experien and you just need 
somebody to tap tap tap a little bit and 
help draw those things out of you so be 
be excited that you can do this you can 
connect with people you do have Charisma 
and Charisma is not something you are 
born with it is something that you can 
learn you can learn the style 
intelligence you can learn the emotional 
intelligence you can learn the social 
intelligence so Kimmy you are a goddess 
for a thousand Reasons thank you so much 
for being with me for being on our show 
and for dropping all these gems I 
learned so much and I'm so elevated by 
talking to you today oh my gosh it's so 
likewise and and see it is that that 
Charisma and I love what you said at the 
end is is really that's what excites me 
about Charisma and that's why it's the 
name of my podcast the Charisma quotient 
too because it's it is something you can 
learn and so if you're listening to this 
and you're feeling well I don't even 
know where to start 
you know just starting small in each of 
these areas it will add up to the bigger 
success just do one thing maybe just put 
on a red lipstick right for your style 
intelligence maybe for your emotional 
intelligence just say no set some 
boundaries for yourself and for the 
flirting for the soci you know this the 
uh social 
intelligence make eye contact like use 
what Bella said you know Five Guys in 
one day and just see what it feels like 
and then go home and journal about it 
and then do it again the next day you 
know that's going to build the 
confidence and create success in your 
life exactly and you're not looking at 
rejection with that you're looking to 
say did I do the five I'm not attached 
to the outcome I don't care if they 
looked back at me I don't care if they 
smiled back at me did I do my five today 
right and we do this with our clients 
like there's no like flirt with a kid 
flirt with an old lady flirt with a dog 
I don't care make eye contact and say 
something nice to somebody so Kimmy 
thank you for your Brilliance and we 
will absolutely have have you back again 
for more conversation so thank you oh my 
God you're so welcome and I have a a 
free gift for the listeners Oh yay gift 
love gift I did a little flirt bomb in 
the beginning so I have to like carry 
through and so if anyone would like a 
style guide so so for women I have a 
style guide and it helps you measure 
like what your body type is and you're 
measuring and it has nothing to do with 
your weight just so you know women hear 
about the tape the measuring tape and 
they get freaked out it's about your 
bone St structure so once you measure 
yourself you'll know which body type you 
are my guide goes into what clothes 
flatter your figure and what clothes to 
stay away from and for men I have a 
man's fashion Manifesto that goes over 
your body types but it also goes over a 
little grooming tips because let's face 
it like men need you know trim the nose 
hairs like the little things make a big 
difference that go along way and so if 
you want that you can just go to kimys 
Seltzer dcom style to pick that up 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love I couldn't be 
more excited to introduce my friend this 
Rockstar 
Superstar beautiful peaceful aesthetic 
human being Ariel Ford Ariel it's so 
great to see you oh Bella I can't wait 
till we can go to dinner again Zoom is 
okay but we can have so much more fun in 
person and we did so I know you guys are 
all going to be jealous thinking God you 
got to have dinner with Ariel Ford I did 
and we went to my favorite restaurant 
called summerhouse Santa Monica and I 
the minutes turned into hours and it was 
just so fun and yes yes yes to a second 
live date Miss for absolutely okay I 
don't need to give you an introduction 
because everybody knows who you are 
Ariel is an amazing best-selling author 
speaker relationship expert I consider 
her a mentor a friend someone who's been 
so generous and good and today we want 
to be generous and just talk all about 
love you guys we're going to talk about 
what like finding love keeping love so 
let's just hop into this Ariel tell me 
and I know this is a big question it's a 
giant 
question it's a question that's been 
pondered from Millennia by the wisest 
Minds on the planet what in your 
definition what is 
love well that is the big question and 
you know most people at least the women 
single women I come in contact with 
think that love is a 
feeling love is that being swept away 
feeling of being in love and what that 
experience is is Nature's greatest drug 
high it's your brain on drugs it's your 
brain cascading oxytocin and dopamine 
and adrenaline and lots of other 
hormones I can't even 
describe but it isn't love right it's 
this great feeling it's Nature's trick 
to get us to bond and procreate 
procreate and keep the species going and 
it doesn't last it's good for it's got a 
shelf life of six months to three years 
and then it's pretty much game 
over and in the process of finding love 
and keeping love the most important 
thing to really begin to understand is 
that love is not a feeling love is a 
behavior love is a choice love is an 
action love is a decision love is a way 
of being and even if you end up with the 
most perfect soulmate in the 
universe there are days when you're 
going to hate them and it doesn't mean 
that you don't love them so coming to 
the understanding that real mature adult 
love is behavior is critical to the 
success of having a l you know having a 
long-term happy committed partnership 
so that's sort of the big picture of 
what love is oh I couldn't agree with 
you more and you brought back to mind 
when you were saying love is a decision 
I remember being 21 years old in the 
middle of a toxic quote unquote love 
filled chemistry filled anxiety filled 
butterfly filled roller coaster of a 
relationship and my best friend at the 
University of Illinois her name is Karen 
maybe she's listening she handed me a 
book called The World L 
traveled and in that book it said 
exactly what you're saying and those 
words change my life love is not a 
feeling it is a decision it is not a 
noun it is a verb right and I thought oh 
my gosh and that started my quest 
to understand what is love how can I 
love how can I love better and who would 
be worthy of this kind of love and a 
year later I used that as part of my 
process to find Andy and we met we met 
in college but I didn't realize he was 
right under my nose for so many years 
and making that decision to say this is 
a great human being helped the chemistry 
to develop and May 17th we'll be 
celebrating our 25y year wedding 
anniversary so you guys listen to to 
what This Love Guru Ariel is saying love 
is an action it is a decision it is a 
behavior it is not a feeling that 
feeling that Hollywood and Bollywood and 
Harlequin and social media as spouses to 
us said and and if your picker's broken 
and if this is the stuff you're doing 
it's not necessarily your fault this is 
what we're told there should be love at 
first sight instant chemistry and she's 
telling you that is Nature's Way of 
tricking us into attachment yeah totally 
totally and I so wish I had understood 
this earlier and I wouldn't have 
suffered all the stress and anxiety and 
heartbreak and Desperation that I went 
through earlier but you just said 
something that triggered something for 
me you said love at first sight now love 
at first sight is a myth I think most 
thinking people understand this however 
I have something that I call love before 
First Sight o what is that before First 
Sight okay so in quantum physics there 
are a couple of things that most people 
agree upon the first one is that there 
is no time there's no past and there's 
no future there's only this now moment 
and also in Quantum science we know that 
we all live in a field we all live in 
this Integra field where we're already 
connected to everything and everybody 
and there's different words for this 
they even sometimes call it the 
butterfly effect you know if a butterfly 
flaps it swings in the Amazon it has 
Ripple effects in North America that 
sort of thing so with love before first 
sight I invented for myself a thing that 
I call the golden cord feeling isation 
and it's something I give away for free 
on my website and what this is It's a 
closed eyed process 
where I take you from your head to your 
heart and we go deep into our heart and 
we focus on feelings of love and 
appreciation and gratitude and we get 
into the scientific state known as heart 
coherence and when we're in heart 
coherence our electromagnetic field 
which is measurable is actually going 
out 25 feet beyond our body so wow what 
I ask you to do in this golden cord 
feeling is is we drop into our heart we 
go into a state of heart coherence and 
then using our imagination we see a 
golden cord of loving light coming from 
our heart going into the field and Into 
the Heart of our beloved now we don't 
know his or her name we don't know how 
or when or where we're going to meet 
them in the 3D world but on this unseen 
plane in the field we connect with our 
golden pour into their heart and we 
begin a conversation with them in our 
mind we begin this conversation I'm open 
willing and available for you to find me 
for us to find each other and we start 
the relationship we have love before 
First Sight and it's a daily practice it 
only takes eight minutes but you start 
by talking to them so that when you do 
finally meet in the real world there's 
already already a connection 
established golden cord realization is 
that it feeling feeling isation it's 
just to play on the word visualization 
because we all know how to visualize but 
manifestation happens in the heart not 
the head so on my website it's 
soulmate.com there's a tab called free 
stuff just go to free stuff and Hunt 
around and you'll find the golden cord 
feelization it's there it's free and you 
don't have to be in this state of 
wanting and waiting for love because 
there is no deficit of love in the world 
although there's lots of women running 
around going I got no love I got no love 
you know I I got proof I got no love I 
got no dates and it's not true we all 
have more than enough love already and 
one of the fastest ways to really know 
that as your truth is to have another 
daily practice that um that I call the 
love gratitude practice where you spend 
a few moments 
with your eyes closed and then you see 
in your mind's eye all the people that 
you already know love you your parents 
your siblings your neighbors your 
co-workers your cats your dogs and you 
just give a little miniature prayer of 
gratitude mom loves me dad loves me 
sister loves me best friend loves me and 
you fill yourself up with all this love 
that you already have and then you're 
not running around like a lunatic with a 
love deficit thing going on because 
you've now filled yourself up with all 
the abundance of love you already have I 
love that so much and that gets back to 
this love is not a feeling when we say I 
have a deficit of love I don't have 
anxiety I don't have butterflies I'm not 
feeling the power of lust at this moment 
we have all of the love that we need and 
we love ourselves that's amazing um yeah 
you're so right I love that practice I'm 
going to start doing that that is really 
well I know I do it all the time I 
especially do it when I'm in the bathtub 
you know I just I'll just be relaxing in 
the bathtub just allowing myself to call 
in all the love that I have whether it's 
on this planet you know or in in the in 
the ethers wherever it is because even 
though our ancestors are out of body 
they still love us you know and if 
you're single you can call on them to 
help you bring in your beloved soulmate 
life partner because they're you know 
they're hanging out there they want to 
make you happy but you have to invite 
them so if you're going to invite them 
make sure they have good taste all right 
you don't want to person who had abusive 
relationships but you have help on the 
other side as 
well Ariel tell me speaking of bringing 
your soulmate into your life how did you 
meet your amazing soulmate Brian tell 
the story because this is one of the 
best stories I've heard well I woke up 
one morning at the age of 43 and I was 
lying in my bed with my eyes closed and 
I was feeling around the bed in search 
of my 25 pound cat who wasn't there and 
all I felt was this empty expansive bed 
and while I felt how empty the bed was I 
had this thought was oh [ __ ] I forgot to 
get 
married and I started thinking how is it 
possible I'm 43 I live in Beverly Hills 
I have this successful business I have a 
million friends I have this incredible 
life and yet I'm single what's wrong 
with this picture and I quickly realized 
a couple of things one all my time and 
energy was being spent on building my 
career and two I had never really placed 
an order with the universe of what I 
wanted my soulmate to be I had a long 
list of what I didn't want him to be but 
I had no Clarity on what the heart 
traits and qualities were that my soul 
was most calling for and so I did a 
couple of things I got out of bed I made 
a list it was nine pages long all nine 
pages of every prayer process and ritual 
I had ever done to manifest my career 
and then I started thinking about like 
you know how do I most want to feel when 
I'm with this person not like how tall 
is he or how much money does he have how 
do I want to feel and a couple of things 
became very clear to me I knew at that 
point that the most important quality my 
soulmate needed to have was 
generosity not with his wallet I was 
making plenty of money I needed someone 
who was going to be generous with their 
love time affection and 
attention I knew that my soul needed 
somebody for whom I would be the center 
of their Universe because my history was 
I was always going after the captain of 
the universe types the people who were 
even more ambitious than I was and those 
guys don't have any time or energy to 
give anything there's you know most of 
them are narcissists they're all about 
what's in it for me and even though I 
wanted somebody who was successful and 
accomplished I also wanted somebody who 
would you know basically put me on a 
pedestal and worship me I wanted to be 
worshiped so that was an important thing 
to have then I made a soulmate wish list 
which was a ridiculous 48 items 
long I got 46 of the 48 uh but it's 
still too long it was still too long and 
then I just started doing this practice 
the love before first sight I decided 
that he wasn't missing I knew that the 
my desire to be partnered came out of 
some knowingness that I was meant to be 
partnered it was just a matter of 
becoming visible and connected to my 
partner he was not missing but I was 
missing from the picture I needed to 
show up and call him in so every single 
day at Sunset I had a love altar I would 
sit in front of my love altar I would 
put on these um chants these nuns doing 
these interesting chants that I like 
listening to and then I would use my 
imagination and I would talk to my 
soulmate and I didn't know his name and 
then sometime later I couldn't tell 
exactly how long it took because I 
wasn't planning on writing a book about 
it back then but I'm guessing somewhere 
nine months to a year through a series 
of crazy synchronicities I ended up at a 
business meeting and there was Brian and 
the moment I saw him I had this sort of 
knowingness that my life was about to 
change the moment he saw me he freaked 
out because he had seen my face in his 
dreams for weeks leading up to our 
meeting and so that's the the really 
really short version of how we met but 
just to add one more thing to it we got 
engaged three weeks after we met but we 
didn't get married for another year 
because I'm a student of Dr Pat Allen 
who always drilled it into us that you 
have to know somebody for a full year 
before you commit your life to them so 
we were engaged quickly and then a year 
later we ended up having three weddings 
and our 24th anniversary is next month 
oh oh my gosh we're in a similar 
trajectory I love that 24 and 25 what a 
beautiful story and he had seen your 
face in his dream so you were both doing 
and maybe you didn't call it this then 
but your golden cord like feeling yeah I 
didn't call it that for a long time I 
just I just want I believe that we had 
that recognition because we'd already 
been in a relationship on the other 
planes for a long time there was already 
that connection there w and if any of 
you haven't if you have not seen Ariel's 
husband he's quite a lovely human being 
I have yet to meet him but he certainly 
is very hunky in all of his fotos yes he 
is well he's you know he's really 
interesting because I call him my uh my 
heart chakra on legs because it's his 
belief that his purpose on Earth is to 
make sure that everybody who comes in 
contact with him has experience of being 
loved so you somebody asked me one day 
who's your Guru and I started thinking 
about it and it's like well Brian's my 
Guru I want to be more like him because 
that I do not wake up in the morning 
thinking about how can I make people 
feel loved those are not that my first 
thoughts but they're Brian's first 
thoughts so I sort of get the the halo 
effect of of his loving nature well in 
tell us what's on your coffee mug oh so 
my coffee mug 
says on the back I'm mostly peace love 
and light and a little G [ __ ] yourself 
okay good description of me you know mic 
drop right there mic mic drop so um let 
me let me ask you this do you think how 
many soulmates do you think we can have 
in a 
lifetime uh I think the number is 
totally unlimited yeah but that also 
comes from what my definition is I 
believe a soulmate is first and formost 
most somebody you can completely be 
yourself with somebody with whom you 
share unconditional love and when you 
look into their eyes you have the 
experience of being home so the truth is 
we already have dozens hundreds or 
thousands of 
soulmates and you know we get to choose 
a romantic soulmate to be our life 
partner and there is more than just one 
of those possibilities this whole muga 
thing we each only get one Big Love in a 
lifetime is just a big fat lie it is not 
true there's no shortage of love at all 
what there is a shortage of though is 
women choosing a life partner based on 
their feelings okay that Beetle song All 
You Need Is 
Love not true love is an important piece 
of it but in order to have a happy 
sustainable long-term committed 
partnership you need to be married to 
your best friend you need to have 
compatibility and connection and good 
communication and most importantly you 
have to have a shared vision for the 
future you have to be in agreement on a 
bunch of stuff because as I said earlier 
there will be days when those loving 
feelings are not there and they'll be 
replaced with some really ugly negative 
feelings and you have to choose to love 
them anyway or is uh Dr Laura want said 
oh my God I Dr Laura I are like so far 
apart politically but I love listening 
to her and one day she was giving this 
call her so much grief and she the woman 
was complaining about something her 
husband was doing and Dr Lori says to 
her I want you to imagine that you're in 
a court of law you're the defense 
attorney and your husband is the 
defendant and you now have to convince 
the judge and the jury of their 
innocence and explain their behavior go 
and I thought how brilliant is that 
imagine if you were going to be your 
partner's defense attorney and you had 
to get in there and really understand 
you know why they're acting out the way 
they are why they're behaving and of 
course you know their history you can 
probably figure it out you know you 
inadvertently press some button and now 
you know their hair is on fire be their 
defense attorney be their best friend 
and choose someone for God's sakes 
choose someone who's going to take a 
bullet for you and be your best 
friend 100% 
it's funny you know this gets back to I 
always say choose an elevator person 
right and this I know we've talked about 
this on the show before and this comes 
off of my October Ted talk about how we 
especially women in a case study I 
talked about and and I I made a joke and 
it wasn't even a joke I opened up the 
Ted Talk I said I work with you know 
I've worked with thousands of people to 
help them find love and what do you 
think the number one thing that every 
woman says to me when I say tell me 
about your dream guy what is he and the 
answer ubiquitously is tall he's taller 
than me ideally he's over six feet if 
you could see Ariel right now her head 
is in her hands right and and here's the 
thing ladies gentlemen if you're 
listening to this understand if you've 
been doing this stuff and you're what I 
call your picker if your relationship 
picker is broken it's kind of not your 
fault right because we're dating from 
our caveman brains we're looking for 
someone who's you know the big Burly 
caveman that can protect the Village 
from Marauders and hunt down the Buffalo 
and bring the big buffalo home and and 
so when you look at and for men it's the 
same way for men that are looking for 
women I want someone younger than me 
who's hourglass shaped why because until 
the year 1900 we were living until we 
were 30 years old so if you were younger 
than me kind of newbi looking had good 
hips I was caveman Bella was kind of 
like you know you look like you could 
probably deliver eight kids six of them 
are probably going to die but you know 
let's have a go at this right even 
before we had language so when people 
tell me well I can't choose who I'm 
attracted to yes you can yes you can yes 
you can there's a reason why the divorce 
rate in India is only 
10% right arranged marriage is still a 
thing there's something to be said for 
having the parents be able to select 
somebody that has the same background 
and culture and values and then the 
chemistry 
Grows Right but if you're choosing based 
on the butterflies you're screwed you're 
totally screwed I can't tell you how 
many people who have great sex every 
night get divorced right great sex is no 
indicator of a long-term relationship 
right but knowing that somebody shares 
your values is going to be there to hold 
your hand on the good times and the bad 
times who actually wants to be your 
cheerleader you know there's there's 
scientific proof now that the people who 
live the longest happiest lives are 
married to their best 
friends 100% Harvard did a 75 years 
study on this it wasn't the richest men 
that lived the longest it wasn't you 
know the most athletic it wasn't the 
tallest it was the ones with the best 
relationships yeah did you know Bella 
that that single and divorced men die 
seven years earlier than married 
men amazing 
amazing probably hopefully happily 
married men badly married men but even 
the badly married men still have 
somebody looking out for them they still 
have 
companionship yeah you're you're right 
and about the arranged marriage thing 
you got I don't think I've ever shared 
this before in you know on this show my 
parents met on a Sunday Sunday April 
20th they were engaged Thursday April 20 
4 and they were married 72 hours later 
Pat Allen would not have any of this 
they were married 72 hours later and 
they'll be married 53 years has it been 
easy hell no they got married they 
immigrated they didn't know each other 
they're now US citizens and but in India 
what they say it's it's commitment first 
then love yes you will fall my mom used 
to tell my high school friends my mom 
was probably a dating coach without even 
knowing it she said girls let me tell 
you something and she was talking about 
spending time with bad guys that weren't 
worth our time if you live with a toad 
long enough you will learn to love that 
toad basically like go and so rainu 
became famous about if you live with the 
toad long enough you're going to learn 
to love that Toad and everyone's like oh 
my God he's a toad get out of the 
relationship so so there's there's a lot 
of history and there's a lot of sage 
wisdom in Old cultures the Jewish 
culture the Indian culture so many of 
our cultures but yes it is and we have 
so much of this stuff the other way 
around and I hope that you guys I hope 
that you listening to this whether 
you're walking to work or you're driving 
or you're brushing your teeth that this 
is setting in with you I married my best 
friend my best friend who had been my 
best friend for six years and I dated a 
bunch of people that you know some were 
good guys some were toads for sure this 
is probably why why my mom was lecturing 
all of us on toads and ultimately I'll 
tell you what at the end of the day he 
will say this as the man what carries 
this relationship through is this deeply 
rooted friendship that we have with each 
other because we have a shared history 
we have shared values we want the same 
things for our lives when we differ with 
each other which is often on a daily 
basis we know nobody's going to throw 
the microwave at the other person 
nobody's going to Screech out of the 
driveway and come back seven days later 
right we know how to navigate that 
conflict because we navigate it like 
we're still friends right and and you're 
a team right you took sacred vows you 
made agreements in front of God 
goddesses and the entire Pantheon of 
everything right that you are going to 
be all in and that's the other thing 
especially in the Western World people 
don't really get it's you know we're so 
disposable you know it's like oh if it 
doesn't work out I'll get divorced I 
I'll give you some really frightening 
statistics so we all know that the 
American first marriage divorce rate is 
50% and that's been pretty steady for a 
long time what most people don't know is 
that 62% of second marriages and 71% of 
third marriages end in divorce so just 
thinking the grass is going to be 
greener or it's going to be better 
somewhere else no the truth is finding 
the soulmates the easy part learning how 
to live with them is a whole different 
different thing and when you're single 
you can't even imagine you know because 
you have this thing oh we're going to 
live happily ever after you're going to 
live Ever After yes and you're going to 
choose the happy part you're going to 
learn how to be happy you're going to 
learn how to communicate you're going to 
learn how to compromise but first you 
have to agree to be all in you have to 
just say okay I've made this vow I'm 
taking this ride I'm having this 
commitment you know and then do what it 
takes to make it work because it is 
worth it I mean there's nothing better 
than you know knowing that there's 
somebody in the world to be a witness to 
your life who's who cares about your 
emotional and physical safety as much or 
more than you 
do 100% someone who has your back at all 
times right even when they might not 
want to even when you're in a fight you 
know that they're going to be the 
defense attorney to your defendant right 
exactly I love that and you know that's 
such a great thing you've got to be 
Allin right and have somebody that has 
your back so if you had to say you know 
is there an unknown secret to 
relationship success that you want 
everyone to know 
yes yes and this is 
from the guru of marriage Dr John gotman 
who is the absolute Godfather of 
everything needs to be known about 
marriage and he says that every single 
couple every couple has a minimum of 
nine irreconcilable differences these 
are things you're never ever going to 
agree on and it's not a barrier to 
having a happy relationship so the most 
common ones are Sex and Money you want 
it once a month he wants it twice a day 
you know money one person's a spender 
one's a saver one person's always on 
time one's always late one's a clean 
freak perfectionist neat freak the other 
one's a messy hoarder slob and this is 
normal but we live like there's 
something wrong and we're constantly 
trying to change them and you know it's 
not about changing anybody it's about 
two things one is learning how to come 
up with Creative Solutions you know 
creating a win-win situation out of 
something that looks impossible and 
sometimes manipulations involved I'll 
talk about that in a moment 
manipulations okay you know and the 
other one is practicing what I call the 
art of wabisabi love and wabisabi is the 
ancient Japanese aesthetic of finding 
Beauty and Perfection and 
imperfection because we're all imperfect 
beings trying to have perfection in 
every area of Our Lives we want our 
homes to look perfect we want our kids 
to be perfect we want to be perfect we 
especially want our mates to be perfect 
and it's never going to happen there is 
no such thing as Perfection but could we 
learn to live with good enough you know 
could we learn to be creative and have 
Creative Solutions 
um you know I was talking to Harville 
Hendrick about this one day the other 
God of marriage and I I sit and we were 
talking about Creative Solutions and I 
said I said well Harville give me an 
example from your own life about 
creative solution because at the moment 
I wasn't really getting it and he said 
to me he said sure he said my favorite 
thing in life is to wake up in the 
morning get behind the we wheel of a 
vehicle and drive all day and he said 
Helen's favorite thing in life is to sit 
in the living living room and either do 
her uh knitting or her embroidery and if 
she has to leave the house she wants to 
know how quickly she can get back home 
and I said okay well that sounds like an 
impossible situation said no problem we 
bought an RV I'm always driving she's 
always 
home fantastic I love that right and 
that comes from that desire to be each 
other's person and and what I want to 
clarify to you dear listeners if you're 
listening to this what Ariel and I are 
assuming when we're talking about this 
person your soulmate your your golden 
cord you know GHQ person what that this 
is a good human being that if somebody 
is treating you badly doesn't have your 
back is throwing down red flags is 
criticizing you maligning you cheating 
on you hitting you like doing any of 
those bad things we're not saying stay 
with this and commit to this and be all 
into this we're assuming right now that 
you have found this juicy amazing human 
being that loves you unconditionally and 
you love this person unconditionally if 
this is more the rainu Gandhi toad we're 
not telling you stay there and figure 
your way out from the red flags and just 
you know make it work I mean look there 
all good relationships are going to have 
those as Ariel said nine irreconcilable 
differences but those differences 
shouldn't be differences that hurt you 
physically or emotionally to your core 
right you need to be we all do all human 
beings have this one number one core 
need which is to feel emotionally and 
physically safe maso's hierarchy that's 
number one if you don't feel emotionally 
and physically safe you need to leave 
you need to get out especially if there 
are children right so the caveat with 
with wabisabi love is that you can't 
find beauty and perfection in something 
that's broken you can find beauty and 
perfection in an imperfection oh he 
leaves wet towels on the floor all the 
time you know he doesn't do do this or 
he doesn't do that there are ways to 
overlook certain things and pick your 
battles but if there's abuse or act of 
addiction or bad 
behavior you got to get out and get 
professional help before you decide if 
you're ever going back 
in absolutely and and to that 
point uh it when Ariel quoted those 
divorce statistics what ends up 
happening is even though as human beings 
you're a smart person you're listening 
to this podcast you want to hear what 
Ariel has to say and what I have to say 
even though you have the intellect you 
may be a Perpetual student of hours of 
the universe of love but what happens is 
something more Insidious human beings 
are creatures of habit and we do what's 
comfortable for US versus even what we 
know is intellectually right what we 
would tell our best friend to do we can 
tend to have what we call regression to 
the mean right you go back to what 
you've done on average and if you have a 
history of choosing people that are bad 
for you that are red flaggy that are 
abusive in some way shape or form put 
some guard rails around and get help 
because we don't want you to end up in 
that 
62% second divorce rate or 73 or 74 or 7 
100% third divorce rate you need to get 
some help and support around this the 
beauty is is sometimes for so many of us 
it can take a village to find love and 
just exhale and say it's okay if I need 
help with this because I'll tell you 
what I grew up with this poster in my 
house and I know you guys have heard 
this before on this show that my my 
chemical engineering dad put up on the 
wall and it's the 21 rules for success 
by H Jackson Brown Jr rule number one 
says marry the right person this one 
decision will determine 90% of your 
happiness or 90% of your 
misery it takes a village sometimes to 
find this person if you didn't have good 
active role models for you Mom and Dad 
that roll modeled in a lovely way what a 
healthy happy relationship look like 
hell how many of us had that most of us 
did not how many of us dated the right 
people right away right out of the womb 
when we were in high school or college 
not many of us some of us locked into it 
some of us did a lot of work it's okay 
to seek help around this that is why 
people like us exist this isn't natural 
it requires a lot of work and just know 
that and don't beat yourself up and love 
yourself the way you would love your 
best friend and say okay maybe this is 
something that I need help to stay out 
of that 50 62 and 71% divorce statistic 
rate you know and and I'm a big believer 
in therapy you know absolutely I think 
therapy is absolutely critical and 
necessary and it's great to have a 
professional who is another set of eyes 
who can point out your crazy behavior to 
you and get you to do other stuff the 
other thing is is that is that if we 
grew up if our early childhood years 
were in chaos right that feels normal 
that's comfortable that's home for us 
and then we meet a secure type who's a 
nice guy and we're not having these wild 
up and downs with emotion and you think 
there's no chemistry and it's boring 
when in fact you know this is a rock 
star this is somebody you could spend 
your life with but again it's because 
you're counting on the fut feelings 
right you're looking to your feelings to 
determine is this the best I can do for 
a life partner right so you need to be 
choosing people on their capacity their 
capacity to love their capacity to give 
their capacity to live as their word to 
be responsible to be trustable and that 
doesn't happen that's not love at first 
sight you don't open the door and go oh 
62 handsome yeah I choose you right but 
in the meantime they got three other 
girlfriends and 17 kids from other women 
and you know but you're just going to 
step over that I don't think so yeah no 
no you can't do that and remember you 
can choose who you're attracted to and 
if you do have attachment issues right 
that is it's serious it's probably the 
number one most important thing that we 
help our clients do in date coaching and 
relationship coaching you know we have 
this Workshop called fix your pickup 
right which really helps people 
understand the dysfunction kind of how 
our reptilian brains are wired and what 
kinds of choices where you know we have 
the most proclivity to make and and 
after that Workshop what we do with our 
clients and I know you do the same is 
getting in the weeds and really saying 
when you say this person is boring I'm G 
to make you go out on a third date with 
this person and maybe a fourth date and 
maybe a fifth date and maybe an eighth 
date because when you have someone 
sitting at the other side of of the 
Seesaw from you saying this is good for 
you you don't know this yet because 
you've been in roller coaster 
relationships since you were born we 
can't choose our families of origin and 
you've tried to replicate that feeling 
of excitement which leads to high highs 
and low lows sometimes it takes a 
therapist a coach a best friend someone 
to help you understand what good 
actually is and it's not your fault you 
just have haven't been able to be 
witnessed to good yet but I promise you 
as part of psychotic optimism ladies and 
gentlemen if you haven't had that love 
yet you're going to do your golden core 
cord feeling isation and you're going to 
know that great love exists for me it's 
out there it's a when it's not an if and 
all I have to do is date like hell to 
find this person we're guaranteeing you 
between Ariel and me she says your love 
is out there I'm saying your love is out 
there we're both saying all you have to 
do is go out there and call them in and 
find them isn't this exciting I'm so 
hopeful for you yeah yeah you know and 
people like to set themselves up for 
fail you know uh I actually believe 
there's there are some people who are 
addicted to suffering they've lived in 
the story for so long I'm too old I'm 
too fat I'm too damaged all the good 
ones are taken I live in the wrong City 
blah blah blah blah blah that rather 
than do the work put out the effort take 
the risk they live they're they're just 
there's no way you can help them they 
just want to hold on to poor me you know 
and it doesn't have to be that way 
because there's 7.5 billion people alive 
on the planet right now and half of them 
are single statistically you're walking 
past potential soulmate Partners every 
day but if thinking oh my God they've 
got to be 6'2 with a 31 inch waist or 
whatever you're never going to see 
what's right there in front of you and 
if you're telling yourself I need to be 
a size zero two or four in order to find 
love look around is it only skinny micro 
mini La type of Hollywood models that 
are in relationships no are you kidding 
there are people out there that will 
love you exactly as you are are at the 
age you are and don't FIB about your age 
online ladies and gentlemen that will 
love you exactly the way you look 
exactly the way you are 
unconditionally I just want to add one 
thing to that the average size wedding 
dress sold in this country is a size 
16 average did you hear that average 
that means for every zero there's a size 
32 out there okay that brings the 
average to 16 yeah yes now the other 
thing is let's talk about Beyonce hi 
Berry Sandra bulock princess Dy Melania 
Trump reys 
Witherspoon um um what's her name uh oh 
I can think about 10 others all of these 
women are either a size zero or size two 
they're all very wealthy they're all 
beautiful very accomplished and the 
thing they all have in common is they 
were all cheated on publicly by their 
husbands so being rich beautiful size 
two successful is no barrier to having a 
great relationship or it's no indicator 
that you will have a great relationship 
so it's just one more excuse oh well 
when I lose that 20 pounds but it's not 
going to happen because you will lose it 
and then you're going to gain back 25 we 
know this all right everybody's diet 
enough to know I don't care how much 
weight you lose eventually you're going 
to gain it back plus right so it's not 
about size at all it's about willingness 
like do I am I committed enough to my 
dream of spending the rest of my life 
with a partner and am I willing to have 
some really horrible experiences dating 
because you will you will there's no 
question about it you're going to get 
ghosted there's going to be catfishers 
there are going to be people who lie 
you're going to have some terrible 
experiences and am I willing to do it 
anyway knowing that I'm hanging on to 
the the big 
picture perfectly segue into this 
question that I've wanted to ask you is 
you talk a lot about manifesting a 
soulmate what do you think what is the 
necessary attitude and what are the key 
steps to manifesting a 
soulmate I think the most important 
thing is being in touch with how you 
most want to feel when you're with your 
partner you know and a good time to do 
this is either right when you wake up or 
before you go to sleep and you're just 
lying in bed and you've got your eyes 
closed and just picture your heart and 
just 
imagine how do I feel In This Moment now 
that I'm with my perfect life partner 
I'm happy I'm satisfied I'm content I'm 
excited I'm relieved I'm filled with 
anticipation I'm con you know I feel 
safe I feel loved cherished adored 
valued and let yourself marinate in 
those feelings and vibrate at that 
frequency of love and when you're 
vibrating at the frequency of love you 
become a magnet for even more love 
that's right you C you become what you 
want to 
attract right yeah yeah but if you're 
living in oh what's the matter with me 
and you know why did I eat that 
cheesecake and if only I wasn't you know 
20 lbss thinner 40 pound centner you 
know if I only hadn't broken up with 
soand so 18 years ago and you live in 
all this regret and stupid thinking 
you're not going to get there you know 
and the other place to to really be 
clear about is having a list of your mus 
havs and your deal breakers you have to 
really know those you know like I had 
some crazy must haves on my list one of 
one of mine was must be able to walk 
unassisted okay and the reason for that 
is I like to walk every single day and 
in my imaginary world I was taking long 
walks every day with my soulmate now of 
course I didn't look far enough into the 
future to the point where he had 
arthritis and couldn't walk as much as 
he used to but that's what happens when 
people get older but you know and I had 
another one must have English as a first 
language now I grew up in in South 
Florida where the official language is 
Spanglish and it was and words are 
really important to me and when you're 
with somebody who do for me that doesn't 
have English as a first language there 
are different meanings to words you know 
and and communication becomes even more 
difficult so I wanted somebody who could 
walk who had English as a first language 
and the best thing I got that I asked 
for was I wanted somebody who had a 
great mother with whom he had a great 
relationship because I had heard the 
Mother-in-law stories and I wanted 
somebody who a loved and respected women 
and had a great mother and my 
mother-in-law was like the Buddha of 
love I totally like won in that 
department and that's why she gave birth 
to the heart chakra unless right right 
he learned at the foot of the Buddha of 
how to be a loving being so yeah so 
you've got you've got to know what 
you're calling in you also got to know 
what you won't tolerate you know like 
for me I wanted somebody who was leading 
a healthy lifestyle which meant you 
know no no drugs no 
smoking exercise daily you know I didn't 
I don't care what kind of exercise he 
did some people are more specific about 
that like I had a friend on her must 
have list must be a 
triathlete and you know what she only 
had three things on her list must be a 
Christian in love God must want children 
right away must be a triathlete they met 
on Tinder and on the first date started 
planning their wedding and they've now 
been I went to the wedding they've now 
been happily married for seven years 
with two 
kids isn't that amazing right and if 
that is really your must have must have 
must have a triathlete right if someone 
came to me and said okay I'd really like 
a triathlete I'd say is it really like 
do you have to have to have to and if 
they said it's a deal breaker well good 
that actually Narrows the playing field 
makes it easier a lot right and suddenly 
if you value someone who has done 
triathlons most likely a triathlete is 
going to be more attracted to a fellow 
triathlete so and who else yeah right 
who else would understand the training 
involved right most people aren't going 
to put up with someone who has to train 
that much I also had on my must have 
list must love cats because I well I oh 
if I always had cats always choose plany 
but cats are important and I had once 
dated a guy who was alert IC to cats and 
we only went out once because he I 
opened the front door and he started 
sneezing and then he started coughing 
and then he started choking and I 
thought I just looked at him and I and 
he looked at me and we said cats he said 
cats and so we're now friends on 
Facebook but I haven't seen him in 20s 
something years that well and for you 
reaching over for your 25 pound cat who 
wasn't in your bed made you the next 
Domino was I want to be married I want a 
man to be here and then look at the 
whole trajectory you went down so got to 
love cats 
yeah cute little critter Critters you 
know you said something earlier and I 
wanted to come back to this and I know 
this is so in line with everything we've 
talked about but I really want to bring 
it home for people that are listening 
why living as if will get you to love 
faster okay so when you're living is if 
your behavior matches your belief so if 
your belief is I'm lovable I'm deserving 
of love my soulmate life partner is out 
there we're going to meet soon in the 
real world then the living as if would 
look like every time you walked into a 
card shop you'd be buying them birthday 
cards anniversary cards Valentine's Day 
cards I love you just because cards 
every time you see a concert or a play 
you want to go to you're buying two 
tickets with the plan to be going to 
take them to go on that sort of thing so 
your behavior matches your belief your 
belief is I'm worthy of love I on the 
other side my soulmate or I together 
soon we'll be together in the 3D World 
this is what life is going to look like 
together you know and for me I I took it 
a step further I ended up you know 
changing the sheets and and the decor of 
my bedroom because it was a very girly 
bedroom the walls were pink everything 
was pink you know so 
right but I was 
dating so I changed I changed things 
thinking well you know if I were a guy 
would I be comfortable in this very 
girly white lace you know duvet you know 
it was very girly I thought no probably 
not so I toned it down a little bit uh 
so living as if is important part of 
it's like dress dress for the job you 
want not the job you have it's the same 
concept I love this this is all so great 
Ariel 
for I'm just I'm blown away at your 
wisdom and your knowledge and couldn't 
be more grateful that you said yes to 
this conversation and anything for you 
Belle I love you I love who you are in 
the world I love what you're doing I 
love the fact that you are providing so 
much truth and wisdom in this crazy 
world where you know people are just 
beat up every day with [ __ ] about 
what's true and what's real about love 
you know and you're sharing it so I'm 
happy anytime you want me just call me 
well I love it because I know we were 
introduced this is our soulmate 
Connection by someone else who was in 
the day coaching space who put Arian 
Ariel and I together for a potential 
interview for a summit that you and 
Claire's Amit were doing and when Ariel 
and I got on the phone I felt this like 
I was talking to someone I had been 
friends with for a long time and after 
what was supposed to be just that one 
interview that we did over the phone we 
stayed in contact and we became friends 
and we would do phone catch-ups and we 
had dinner in Chicago together you guys 
so remember there are people out there 
that want to love you people that want 
to have relationships with you be open 
to the possibilities 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back 
Happy New Year I think it's now the new 
year and we're recording this obviously 
a couple of weeks in advance so um I 
hope Peak dating season is going well 
for you I am so excited to bring you 
someone who I not only consider an 
amazing expert an amazing author 
podcaster blogger but also an amazing 
friend 
um we have a thousand connections 
between our friend groups and I'm very 
lucky to have her in our pool of 
resources and I'm happy to have Jackie 
pilisoff with us who is the creator of 
the divorced girl smiling Community 
amazing author former present journalist 
she does a lot of amazing things so 
without further Ado I'm going to welcome 
Jackie on here for this episode that I 
want you all to get your notebooks out 
because we're going to be talking about 
the top 10 possible reasons why you 
didn't hear back from someone you 
thought you had a good date with Jackie 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast 
Bella thanks so much for having me this 
is going to be really fun I am so 
excited so just tell us a little bit 
about who you are and then let's get 
into the juice all right 
so I spent 
if I added up 
probably over 20 years dating I dated 
let's say I started dating when I was 16 
and I didn't get married till I was 35 
so I spent all of those years dating 
and then I got divorced at 41 and I 
dated again until I was 49 and met the 
love of my life so I feel like I have 
all this dating experience to share and 
what I did right what I did wrong what I 
learned and then also I have dating 
experience and also dating after divorce 
experience and those two things are two 
different things I think 
completely and so you know what it's 
like you went through a brutal divorce 
and you know how lonely and isolating it 
feels and that was part of the birth of 
the divorce girls smiling Community 
right absolutely I felt like I was on an 
island it was 2008 so the internet and 
the social media wasn't what it is today 
and I really felt like there was no one 
out there who heard me could listen to 
me that I could connect with there 
wasn't even such a thing as a dating 
coach or a divorce coach that didn't 
even exist yet so really it was lonely 
and it was my inspiration to help other 
people through starting a brand divorced 
girl smiling 
well I'm so glad to hear have you here I 
had heard from so many friends Bella you 
need to know Jackie she's cool and she's 
a great blogger so I'm so delighted that 
you have joined us today so tell us what 
inspired you to write this article about 
10 possible reasons why you didn't hear 
back and let's get right into it 
great so for people listening I have a 
Facebook group page that has thousands 
of women on it and they're talking to 
each other so I can see what these women 
are saying and what they're feeling and 
what their dating experiences are 
and I can't even count the number of 
comments people will post on the 
Facebook page I have this great day and 
for I thought for sure everything was 
going perfect and then I never heard 
from him he never even texted me this is 
the funniest one oh well no not funny 
it's kind of sad funny but it is funny a 
woman was dating this guy they went out 
on a couple dates on like the third date 
they went shopping she's trying on 
clothes he's telling her what he likes 
everything's going perfect he says oh 
hold on I'll be right back I have to go 
outside for a second never came back and 
never contacted her again now I just 
said that was funny so now I sound like 
a horrible person that's not funny it's 
just so shocking why would somebody do 
that you know and so I think there's a 
lot of pain out there from women who are 
dating and you know when someone doesn't 
call back it feels very personal and it 
feels very awful and you think to 
yourself your first gut instinct is what 
did I do what did I do wrong and that's 
something I hope today Bella you and I 
can tell people that it's not you there 
are so many other reasons why you might 
not have called okay I love that so tell 
us reason number one 
all right but before I get to reason 
number one I want to say one thing I 
think if somebody doesn't contact you 
after the date that it's really kind of 
rude so I guess the reason why I'm 
telling you this is I think that if you 
go out with somebody and you don't 
really think there's a love connection 
and you don't want to go out again at 
least 
send a nice tax thank the person for 
dinner or just say you know just be 
honest and say I'm not in a place right 
now that to date or whatever you're 
gonna say because 
then you're treating the person with 
respect and all that good karma is going 
to come back to you don't you think I 
love that I love that and especially if 
you have been out on a date like people 
ask me all the time with online dating 
like if somebody messages me do I have 
to say it thanks but no thanks like no 
if somebody has just messaged you and 
you're not and you know this person 
isn't a good fit save your energy for 
people that are a good fit but I 
completely agree with you after a date 
it's nice if you know there were red 
flags especially in smart daters you 
know you can hear me in your head even 
if you're not all attracted but you feel 
like you had fun give this person a 
second date but if there are red flags 
and you know okay this person isn't 
going to be a good fit for me or they're 
showing signs of being a narcissist or 
an avoidant or you know then it's okay 
to send that goodbye sandwich kind of 
text where we say say something nice get 
to the reason and then you know say 
something nice again so see you're 10 
steps ahead of me so you're right and I 
guess the point of me telling you this 
is if if he didn't call you back and you 
never heard from him I think kind of 
rude and says a lot about a person so 
maybe what I'm saying is no big loss 
exactly exactly all right so thank you 
for proceeding your list with that so 
tell us what one of these reasons are 
why someone didn't call you back or call 
you after a date all right so the first 
one I have is he got back together with 
an X 
and I personally experience this on a 
date once where I went out with this guy 
had a great time kissed him good night 
like just for like 20 seconds great kiss 
this was before I was married and then 
Bella he never called me back it always 
bothered me and this was before texting 
so there was no way to know anything 
I've got my closure 
15 years later 
I saw him at a party and I go 
you know it's really you wanna know why 
didn't you call me back like it's been 
he goes really it's right I go yeah it's 
been bothering me for like a decade and 
he goes honestly I got back together 
with my girlfriend who's now my wife we 
have three kids you were the only person 
I dated when we broke up and then I 
realized I wanted to be with her and 
that was it that made me feel so good oh 
you wanted that closure yeah 
all right well that's a good you never 
know you guys if someone didn't call you 
back and maybe it's like Jackie this is 
you know a bug that's been on you for 
decades right or it could have been last 
week you just never know where someone 
is so that's a great ostensible reason 
so what's reason number two 
reason number two is that he realized he 
just isn't ready to date right now and 
that is very true for a lot of divorced 
men I have actually written whole 
articles on the divorced man because I 
feel like I know him so well 
and a lot of these men 
they date right away after a divorce and 
then 
they all of a sudden say you know what I 
need a break and they're just not ready 
to date that happens kind of a lot 
it does and we coach men as well as 
women and that absolutely sometimes we 
realize or divorced men or widowed men 
we have them both right and sometimes 
guys are no different to some extent 
feelings or feelings we're all human 
beings at the end of the day and 
sometimes they've heard too many no's 
right they've realized oh my gosh maybe 
I'm not yet over my ex right whatever it 
is maybe I'm not over my deceased 
partner and they need to take a dating 
break and it has nothing to do with you 
they just realize they have some other 
things to work through and a lot of 
times I'll tell you I'm not going to 
speak for all men but you know women 
have other women to talk to right and we 
get a lot of our therapy from the women 
in our villages in addition to see 
seeking out therapists and coaches men 
unfortunately sometimes they don't do 
any of that they don't know to do any of 
that women we are everything to these 
guys sometimes we're their therapists 
their wives their girlfriends their 
Partners their best friends and they're 
left isolated right and sometimes they 
go on dates and they're like oh my God I 
don't know what just hit me but that 
didn't feel right so it's not about you 
a lot of times it is about them and 
they're just not ready and something in 
them just flipped over the edge so bless 
and release those guys and do you really 
want to be with someone who is in that 
state right now no let him get the help 
he needs get it together and you could 
meet him meet up with him months or 
years later and it could work out I've 
heard of stories like that too 
100 I have clients that have been 
ghosted by someone after five great 
dates they hear from that person again 
and they say and that person will say I 
wasn't ready to date you back then but 
I've done my work and now I'm back and 
I'm like okay are they a ghosting risk 
again as their dating coach I make these 
guys jump through hoops of fire for 
three to six months before we get 
exclusive with them again but there are 
guys that know at that point I'm not 
ready for you you are too amazing for me 
and I've got some issues that I need to 
work through so that I can be 
comfortable dating somebody as smart 
successful and as together as you are 
and it does happen 
and isn't it good that they're realizing 
it 
100 now I'm not saying all guys but 
there are those gems of human beings 
that are like well I can't date you 
because I think you're like so much and 
you're more successful or you're like 
I've swam out of my Lane so much that 
I've got issues where I feel like I need 
to date down those guys some of them 
never get over that but some do say wow 
the common denominator in this is me so 
I need to go out and get some do some 
work on myself and then they come back 
so absolutely and I'm sure there's so 
many women listening to this who are 
super successful professionally and 
that's really hard 
being in the dating scene with being 
someone who's really professionally 
successful it intimidates a lot of men 
sadly 
100 percent so well related to this but 
different let's get into reason number 
three okay 
he well it is related he feels bad about 
himself there's something about him 
maybe he doesn't feel like he's good 
enough for you maybe he just doesn't 
like himself what I've learned over the 
years is that if you don't like yourself 
when you're with someone either you're 
not ready to date or you are with the 
wrong person because when you meet 
somebody who's a real connection you 
love how you present when you're with 
the person you're like wow I'm sure 
myself I'm sad I feel good I look good 
and it emits and so you just 
you you have to feel good about yourself 
if you want a date to be successful and 
if a guy doesn't it might have nothing 
to do with you he just doesn't feel good 
about himself 
and is there a way to know that when 
you're on a date with somebody 
it's interesting because people disguise 
it so well don't you think that well 
like they they 
the most cocky people really have bad 
self-esteem sometimes 
I agree with that and cocky to your 
point is different than confidence right 
happiness comes with an arrogance 
an air of superiority which ultimately 
is a disguise for feeling badly about 
ourselves right so if somebody comes in 
and they're acting cocky and they're 
speaking negatively about people that 
are next to you at the next table like 
oh look at that guy like he looks like 
something the Cat Dragged In oh my gosh 
I hate that right and so that could be a 
sign that when someone feels bad about 
themselves they're going to project 
negativity on others let me quote Taylor 
Swift right the haters gonna hate hate 
hate hate hate so so that's what it is 
so that's a sure sign and I couldn't 
agree with you more that someone doesn't 
like themselves is if they've got 
something bad to say about everybody 
else or they're trying to convince you 
about why they're better than everybody 
else they're secretly trying to convince 
themselves that they're good enough and 
it's sad 100 and you know what the 
winning combination is 
confidence with humility 
yeah you know 
is that the word I'm looking for yes 
okay 100 it's being humble right it's 
harmful and confident at the same time 
is the most winning combination 
and I love what you said about people 
when you're with people that are good 
bets for you that you feel like the best 
version of yourself and that comes down 
to I believe feeling very comfortable in 
the presence of this person who's 
comfortable with himself and therefore 
also super comfortable with you and 
you're feeling that connection because 
you're not being somebody you're not 
you're not worried about does he like me 
am I saying things the right way oh my 
God is he looking at my crow's feet is 
he looking at my boobs that I feel like 
looks saggy in this dress if you're 
feeling lit up it's because you feel 
like this person genuinely likes you and 
the version of you that you are 100 
percent 
yay so 
make sure 
I was debating telling this story of how 
when I first got divorced I dated this 
guy 
and he kind of strung me along for a 
really long time I called him the hot 
and cold guy okay and it just was the 
worst thing you could possibly do for 
your self-esteem is stay with someone 
who's hot and cold because then you 
become addicted to the times he's hot 
and then you just hate yourself when 
you're with them when he's cold because 
you're like why am I staying in this 
and I never liked myself when I was 
around him I always would be like 
thinking because he didn't like me if 
someone's hot and cold they don't like 
you enough or they have their that's a 
whole nother topic but they have other 
issues or whatever and they just it's 
not gonna work out but if if you don't 
like yourself with somebody you gotta 
get out 
because they're not the right person for 
you when you're with the right person 
you are just going to love how you 
present with them 
exactly because it's real and it's 
authentic and you're not putting on an 
act right it's like I love even when I 
meet a new friend right it's like 
suddenly when you just feel like you're 
lit up like a chandelier because this 
person likes you and they're interested 
in you and you're just yourself and 
you're uncensored in a really positive 
way and you're not worrying about what 
they think about you it's like those are 
where those real connections truly 
happen and it doesn't have to be someone 
who's like oh my God I'm really in awe 
of her because blah blah blah blah it's 
like just those connections where you 
know your soul lights up on fire right 
it's like a good energy it's like that 
great energy so so let's get into reason 
number four tell us what that is all 
right before this podcast I was like oh 
you know what I didn't think of but I 
did because it's reason number four he 
doesn't think you are interested and 
people listening or probably thinking oh 
no that's not true this guy had to have 
known no it could have been that he 
really didn't think you were interested 
and 
how do you know like you and I were 
talking about this a little bit and you 
guys this happens and Jackie maybe you 
have a good story because you seem to 
have all these great things stories and 
and I can tell you there are times and 
again this gets back to was he maybe 
feeling badly about himself and he had 
the you know I've had so many women say 
no to me when I've asked them out I have 
guys that'll come to me and they're like 
I'm the four day Wonder like I can get 
to the fourth date but as soon as it 
gets to the 15th the bottom falls out 
and when you start to look at anything 
including yourself with those lenses you 
tend to not behave like yourself and 
you're going to view anything that 
happens on that date through that 
negative filter right so again we're not 
saying it's anything you did to make him 
think you're not interested that 
probably comes down to something a story 
that he was telling himself about 
himself or about you and how you've 
reacted so here's the antidote that 
Jackie and I were discussing before this 
podcast how do you know 
if someone was interested or not so I'll 
get right into my kind of antidote if 
you're good with that yeah that's what I 
was waiting for 
so 
we have this happen obviously a day 
coaches at Smart dating Academy all the 
time we've got hundreds of clients and 
sometimes it's like oh my God I thought 
it was such a great date but I haven't 
heard from him it's been a day it's been 
two days it's been three days we're like 
okay what you're gonna do with that 
point is say number one tell yourself 
it's okay for me to make the first move 
okay if I haven't heard from someone and 
if you and your gut felt like it was a 
good date right and you're confused send 
what we call the nudge text or the nudge 
email right whatever that is a nudge 
phone call whatever it is but it's let's 
say you had a great date with someone 
named Mark at Starbucks and you grabbed 
coffee and it was easy conversation it 
was fun and you really felt like you 
were the best version of yourself and 
you're like yes I would love to do this 
again you did all the things right and 
you haven't heard from Mark so this 
actually happened to a client of mine 
and so after three day Mark she was 
devastated and she hadn't heard from him 
and she said what do I do I thought it 
was such a great date I said send him a 
nudge text and so she's like I can't do 
that I'm the woman this is his 
responsibility he should be doing this 
he probably doesn't like me I can't 
stand more rejection I'm like let's take 
off all those negative Nelly glasses and 
just say I've got nothing to lose at 
this point because I haven't heard from 
him right so let's say hey Mark I just 
drove by the Starbucks where we met and 
a funny story like I couldn't stop 
thinking about our discussion about 
koala bears and one popped up on my 
Instagram feed and I was thinking they 
might have been present on our date 
right so hope you're having a great 
weekend surviving the blizzard okay so 
now she took the steering wheel into her 
own hands I did basically harangue her 
into doing this text five minutes later 
you guys she got a text back from him 
and it said it's so good to hear from 
you would you like to go out on Saturday 
guess what they're now married because 
of the nudge text and you know what 
happened he was so shy and he had heard 
so many no's and he just thought you 
know what I'm sure she didn't like me 
and he did nothing he dropped the ball 
and so what my client did by sending 
that nudge text was tell him I did like 
you I did have a good time and she had 
50 50 odds if and I said to her if he 
doesn't text you back then we have our 
answer or if it takes him five days to 
text you back but if he does like you 
and he thought you didn't like him he 
will take the ball and run with it and 
that is exactly what happened a hundred 
percent and actually I have a very 
similar story because I sent a nudge 
text that resulted in an eight-year 
relationship where I now live with my I 
call him my love of my life and 
basically we went out we went out to 
dinner we had a great time I mean 
fantastic first date at the end of the 
night we did a little 10 second kiss no 
big deal got a nice text from him the 
next day and then nothing and then it 
gets to be like almost a week and I'm 
like I was going insane I called my 
girlfriend and I go you know what should 
I do I'm going crazy and she's like text 
him and of course that's my first thing 
I'm like I'd rather die no I'm not 
texting him she's like just text them do 
it you know 
because he was you know had not dated 
much 
during and after his divorce so 
he wasn't experienced so I sent a text 
and all I said was just thinking about 
you had such a great time was wondering 
if you want to get together again 
soon and I know Bella you probably don't 
recommend doing that but I did that oh 
I'm all for it I literally got a text 
back within two minutes saying great 
how's Saturday night and really we 
always joke about it and I'm like you 
know what if I wouldn't have sent that 
text and he just said you know I was 
really shy and I didn't really know what 
I was doing and probably didn't have the 
confidence at that point you know just 
was kind of nervous didn't really know 
what he was doing but he's like I would 
have taxed it and I'm like okay whatever 
so 
that is my story that's I I sent the 
nudge text and I have been happy for 
almost eight years 
and you guys I can vouch for the fact 
that he's an amazing guy because I met 
him coming out of my car at a common 
friend's birthday party so Jackie's 
definitely found the lid to her pot he's 
adorable and so nice and adores you so 
thank goodness for your girlfriend who 
had you send the text I know 
oh it's true 
that's awesome so for people listening 
it's gonna happen to you too 
100 you guys remember 
psychotic optimism okay love exists for 
me it's a when it's not an if Jackie 
found the lid to her pot I found the lid 
to my pot hundreds thousands of our 
clients have found the lids to their pot 
and just because you haven't yet love is 
coming to new you new year new you right 
you're listening to this and remember 
2023 is going to be a good year for love 
and just because it hasn't happened yet 
it will that's why the word yet is yet 
it's going to come to you so keep the 
faith the fact that you're listening to 
this episode tells me how motivated you 
are to make some changes in your dating 
life so we are spreading our fairy 
godmothers and I'm sending it through 
the listening wires right now for you to 
know that love is out there for you all 
I all I can't tell you is the exact date 
and year that that person will arrive 
but if you keep doing the things and 
educating Yourself by listening to 
conversations and podcasts like these 
you will find the lid to your pot so 
okay 
with that and what do you want to say to 
people is that 
you can only control what you can 
control 
and so you can control listening to 
podcasts and maybe you know signing up 
with Bella and working with her and and 
really trying to do as much as you can 
if you want to meet someone after that 
it's all up to fate and just have faith 
because good things happen to good 
people and it will happen to you 
you just have to have faith and realize 
what you can control and what you can't 
exactly and what you can control is 
having the right mindset having the 
right strategy and having the right 
stamina you guys and to know Love Is 
Gonna Come to you and if you need to 
take a break take a break from it but it 
will definitely come to you and there's 
just no doubt in my mind or Jackie's 
mind about it all so 
with that little PSA for psychotic 
optimism and having the right mindset 
into 2023 let's get into reason number 
five Jackie all right someone might not 
have contacted you this is this one I 
don't know what do you think of this 
Bella he lost your contact information 
so you know I have one word Serendipity 
I mean it's one of my favorite movies 
and that's exactly what happened 
but do you think it's real 
well I was gonna ask you do you think 
this is on your list has this happened 
do you think this is an ostensible 
reason in today's day and age with cell 
phones and dating apps like 
I feel like if somebody got their phone 
stolen there's no way they would have 
your contact information at that point 
right 
a hundred percent and also okay so 
there's two schools of thought the first 
one is if someone wants to find you 
they'll find you you know remember that 
movie He's Just Not That Into You and 
the guy said love it I once called 57 
Jenny so-and-so's to find this girl that 
I loved and you know so in today's day 
and age you can Google someone to find 
them you can really get in touch with 
them but I do think especially with 
older people 
maybe not so much and maybe somebody 
lost your contact or lost their phone 
and you know maybe it's it's a remote 
possibility but it does happen I think 
it does happen so at that point I mean 
people have right smashed their phones I 
know my brother was just on vacation 
dropped his phone into an ocean I've had 
my phone stolen right so there are odd 
circumstances that can happen so why not 
right if you've done the nudge text you 
haven't heard back from this person you 
know what and it says like undeliverable 
doesn't mean that he blocked you it 
could mean somebody you know his phone 
might be at the bottom of the Adriatic 
Sea and you know there's just something 
karmic about that and if it's meant to 
be it's going to happen so why not 
imagine the best possible scenario right 
exactly he's dying to contact me and 
he's searching the Earth and calling 57 
you know Jackie pillowsoft's to find the 
right Jackie Phillips off 
I think there's only one right there is 
certainly only one is there any other 
Bella Gandhi's there is there's a 
pediatrician in Columbus Ohio because 
when I've Googled myself as you all 
should do again dating PSA to yourself 
Google your first name last name see 
what comes up there is a pediatrician in 
Columbus Ohio so I am not the only one 
certainly there's going to be more if 
two were even googleable 
right is there another Jackie pillow 
talk yeah no nowhere wow all right 
ladies and gentlemen if you're looking 
for a great name Jackie pilosoft is 
untaken besides the one the only who's 
on this podcast so 
um so let's talk about reason number six 
oh this is a biggie and that's someone 
else and I think it's that's a really 
tough pill to swallow if you really like 
someone and now you're thinking in your 
head you're playing this whole thing in 
your head a movie about him with this 
other girl holding hands and the music's 
playing and he's all happy and 
everyone's with someone unhappy except 
you you're all alone so don't go there 
that's just not worth it and it's just 
unhealthy to do that but I think it's 
very common when people start to date 
they're dating a couple different people 
and then something just clicks with 
someone on and maybe that's the reason 
he never called and listen how can you 
take that personally you just dated 
someone else's husband 
that's all 
it wasn't meant to be exactly you dated 
someone else's husband I love that right 
the universe has a path for this person 
and you're not the wife and it's okay 
for that so and and realize as much as 
we've talked about and I know last week 
when we did our five episode drop we 
talked about creating a dating funnel 
and how you should date multiple people 
at the same time right and you're 
educated because you're listening to 
this podcast but there's a lot of people 
that don't know that you know if you've 
had two or three good dates with 
somebody it doesn't mean you could 
should or would want to turn off your 
dating funnel at that point but again 
nobody's taught how to date you guys 
nobody is has sat through the course 
that I think we should have all done 
which maybe someday I'll get around to 
doing with Smart dating academies what 
should we all learn at 16 17 or 18 about 
dating and how we should do this you 
don't have to unplug just because you've 
been on two or three good dates with 
somebody and it's not disingenuous to do 
that but especially when we've come out 
of a marriage maybe we're freshly out of 
divorce we've been monogamous with the 
partner and we can't fathom oh my gosh 
well if I had two good dates with Jackie 
I can't go out with Marla on the third 
day because that is like cheating on 
Jackie and we're here to say no it's not 
you're not you've been on two dates with 
her maybe you've spent three cumulative 
hours which is not even the time between 
breakfast and lunch okay you don't have 
to make that decision right now so 
people don't know how to do this so it 
is reasonable that he might say well 
maybe I'm more serious about this other 
person at this point so I'm going to 
have to cut you off I see things happen 
every day with smart daters that come 
back to silly things like this it's like 
he told me he can't date anybody because 
he's been on three day it's with this 
other person and he wants to see how it 
goes I'm like just give him my number 
and you know what that's such a good 
point because what if you date someone 
and you're the reason it's going so well 
is because you realize much later that 
you were in a really healthy good place 
you could have clicked with anybody 
because you're just really in a great 
place and you're just everything is just 
so positive so to limit yourself to one 
person even if you like really really 
like the person you'll know when it's 
time to to commit don't you think 
absolutely and if you don't know the 
time to commit you guys know that we 
talk about wait 15 to 20 dates give it 
three months at least before you pull 
yourself out right this is advice that 
our clients heed and it works because 
then you don't ignore red flags you do 
things slowly you Pace things the right 
way especially if you've got a history 
of picking bad people it's even more 
important to take things slowly and to 
have support around you but yes if you 
I'll say with the caveat you'll know 
when it's time to meet the right person 
if you're a healthy dater if you haven't 
been a healthy dater then you might need 
a village around you to help you know is 
this a good person for me or is this not 
it's kind of funny that you just said 
three months I mean three months do you 
know how many people who get divorced 
they date someone for three months and 
then they get engaged and get married 
again and that is why second marriage 
rates are over 70 percent I mean I'm 
sorry second divorce second marriage 
divorces yeah so three months not only 
are people 
committed not only are people just not 
dating other people they're getting 
engaged 
so fast because they want to 
outrun the grief outrun The Emptiness 
cover the Band-Aid put a bag yeah right 
and so you don't want to fall into those 
statistics so if you need to fix your 
picker 
send us an email you guys this is what 
we do every single day at Smart dating 
Academy we help you to fix your broken 
Pickers and if your picker's broken 
there's no shame right because most of 
us have had broken Pickers maybe 
throughout our entire lives or through 
parts of our Lives again we aren't 
taught how to do this right we can't 
pick who our parents are we can't pick 
the things that happen to us but you 
certainly can choose who you're going to 
pick in the future so now let's go to 
reason number seven 
okay number seven he's a player and does 
it to everyone 
players gonna play play play play play 
play I must be on a Taylor Swift tear 
right now so so yes we you know one of 
the five episode drops from last week 
was how to know if you're dating a 
player right and you know if this person 
is a player right they're just doing 
this to everybody they're not really in 
it for a real relationship and if you 
send them a nudge they don't respond 
whatever 
okay it's funny I know I have a great 
story about this share share in all of 
its Glory Jackie 
all right of course so I know this guy 
who 
was dating a friend of mine and he 
really was a player and I kept saying to 
her like this is not a good guy he's a 
player not not meaning he wasn't a good 
person just not good 
and he would you know not call her back 
and he was kind of like hot and cold 
then they stop seeing each other and a 
few months later my another friend of 
mine says I'm dating this great guy 
we're I think we're in love it's been 
like a month we are just so happy he 
calls me every night he wants to spend 
time with me he's taking me on vacation 
it was the same guy 
and so I said well it's either that 
something happened where he's in a 
better place 
or 
he it was just the person he met someone 
who he was really 
willing to commit to in a much different 
way than the other girl you know not 
because the other girl there's something 
wrong with her it just wasn't a good fit 
whereas this other girl so he showed up 
as a player in one relationship and not 
in another 
so that was it seems like maybe he just 
wasn't that into your first friend 
yeah I mean for whatever reason he 
you know whether it was just he was not 
interested or maybe he did some work on 
himself before he dated the other girl I 
don't really know but again can't take 
it personally both girls are cute girls 
really nice people they both have it 
together he just really for whatever 
reason clicked with this other girl and 
got rid of his player ways 
well I can tell you that doing what we 
do at Smart dating Academy Lindsay 
Eileen and I between us we have we have 
giant spreadsheets and we do see people 
that are narcissistic avoidant or 
players and if that person who's on our 
skull and crossbones list comes up with 
another client we're like no you cannot 
date him and this is why and they're so 
grateful to know that like oh my gosh he 
did that to one of your other clients 
it's like yeah right so this is a Bad 
Bet of a person so we've seen people 
that are truly like the bad apples so we 
have a do not date list 
oh my gosh a DND but okay wait do you 
ever see somebody change though is it 
possible not with those dnds so we have 
enough data that we've collected because 
these people tend to continue to like 
whack-a-mole they you think they're out 
of the dating pool then they come back 
up again and we've I've had Smart dating 
Academy for 13 and a half years so 
that's a long time to be able to see 
what a person is doing and sometimes the 
things people have done are so egregious 
to some of our clients that we're just 
like right this person goes on it you're 
dead to US list just as a human being 
like that is so seven Sigma from what's 
okay or normal 
okay maybe my player guys on the DND 
list at smartdating Academy is it like 
is his name RM no I'm just kidding 
we've got we've got many people on the 
list I'd have to go in and see if he's 
on the list with his photos so too funny 
so all right well let's uh players if 
you need to know the signs of a player 
go back to last week episode saying are 
you dating someone what are the signs of 
a player so 
um it's all there for you so let's talk 
about reason number eight 
okay so reason number eight was is just 
bad timing and either maybe he got 
really busy at work or started traveling 
or you know something happened with a 
family member it could be anything that 
has made his life change and it just 
turns out to be really bad timing yeah 
yeah well it's funny I have a good 
client story about that I had a client 
that went on a Spate of first dates and 
she's beautiful and lovely and an 
attorney and she was in maybe her late 
40s at this point had never been married 
and she was like Bella I swear to you I 
have gone out with guys that are so much 
older than me that they have walked into 
the date with a cane I'm like oh my God 
so she was really casting her net out 
super what she's like even the guy with 
the cane has not asked me out for a 
second date so she was like I I'm so 
done with this so she said I'm going to 
take a dating detox I said okay that's 
fine let's take off two weeks and it was 
right around the holiday season and so 
she woke up on Christmas Eve to a 
message from a guy named Brian who was 
in one of those we had a great date I 
sent nudge I didn't hear anything back 
like what the hell is wrong and so he 
said to her to your point I am so sorry 
that I didn't contact you eight weeks 
ago after our first date it's the best 
first date I've been on I mentioned 
during that date that I was probably 
going to start my own business and I 
want to let you know that since our date 
I quit my job I started my business I 
couldn't apologize more and I would love 
to take you out on that second date 
and she texted me she's like what do I 
do I'm like go on the date they are now 
married and they live in Austin Texas 
so the timing was really bad not 
excusing the fact that he didn't that he 
didn't say you know timing's really bad 
can I get back to you he should have but 
he knew it and he took accountability 
for his actions right and they're now 
married and he's an amazing partner to 
her 
he sounds like a good guy and I bet the 
business is successful totally totally 
and she invited me to her wedding but I 
got 
an ear infection and was grounded by my 
ENT and couldn't fly to her wedding so 
crazy Bad Karma for for me that I 
wouldn't wasn't able to be there but I 
had never heard of an ear infection on 
an adult I mean when you know when you 
have babies and every week you're in the 
pediatrician 
like Dr Bella Gandhi in Ohio and he go 
into the pediatrician and you get 
antibiotics but that's so strange I've 
never heard of a an ear infection and an 
adult I have eustachian tube dysfunction 
which basically was caused when I was 
pregnant with my son Max I always tell 
him he wrecked my ear poor Max because I 
flew with the cold and now I my ear is 
never been the same after that so I get 
ear infections to your point it's very 
uncommon except if you have eustachian 
tube dysfunction which I do so it flared 
up again around this client's wedding so 
boo now Bella I know this isn't on the 
subject of dating but is it really 
painful because you know how babies like 
scream and cry is it really really super 
painful it's not painful as much as it 
is annoying and my ears pop a lot and 
sometimes I can feel fluid it's kind of 
like if you've been swimming you can 
feel like float like like water caught 
in your ear so it's not Amazing by any 
means so 
um so I went I go to this Immediate Care 
Clinic around me and they're like you 
know maybe you should see an ENT because 
the last five times you've been in here 
you've had an ear infection I'm like 
well I kind of know what the reason is 
if you read further in the notes so kind 
of funny but thank goodness knock on 
wood it hasn't been painful yet so 
um then I wonder why these babies cry 
like that for so long you know yeah yeah 
yeah because it is really painful they 
have horizontal eustachian tubes right 
so everything gets so caught and it's 
inflamed whereas adults ours develops 
more of a slope so in my mind 
I know I know I play a doctor on TV 
exactly I have two parents with health 
issues and I thought I wanted to be a 
doctor when I was in high school until I 
took AP biology my senior year and I was 
like yeah no I can't do APA I don't 
think I'd be good in medical school and 
thank goodness because now I'm a dating 
coach and I have the best job ever way 
better than me being a doctor so but I 
still do like Health stuff as my 
personal passion and hobby so so let's 
go to reason number nine my dear 
all right reason number nine is baggage 
um what does that mean so I mean I 
always say to 
my dgs community everyone has baggage 
just because you're divorced it doesn't 
mean you have baggage and people who are 
never married don't have baggage 
everyone has baggage 
but when it comes to dating 
if someone has baggage that they haven't 
dealt with and I have a good friend who 
says has he done the work 
that's her thing and by doing the work 
meaning going to therapy maybe going to 
a divorce coach maybe a dating coach the 
work where your baggage is 
dealt with enough for you to be 
an appealing and a good person to date 
and a good partner for someone so 
everybody has baggage baggage isn't the 
bad thing the bad thing is not dealing 
with the baggage or dealing with the 
baggage in an unhealthy way such as 
alcohol or sex addiction or anything 
that's unhealthy a healthy way to deal 
with baggage is to do what we're doing 
you know um listen to these podcasts get 
go to a dating coach go to a therapist 
maybe a divorce coach and deal with your 
stuff do the work so that you can 
present and find a really meaningful 
connection and so the whole point of me 
saying all this is that maybe he didn't 
call you back because he's got some 
baggage it's messing them up and he just 
can't cope 
exactly and you know attachment issues 
can come into play unresolved issues 
from childhood attachments to parents 
right fears right not feeling good 
enough that's all baggage that comes to 
the table and ultimately comes down to 
fear and if somebody is afraid of a 
relationship they're not a good bet for 
you no matter what they can be a great 
human being a great friend maybe a great 
father to his children maybe a great 
boss but in the Romantic realm they're 
not a good bet for a relationship and if 
that person has never been in there 
because never been in coaching seems 
angry seems distant seems flaky to you 
that's probably a person that's carrying 
around to really heavy chunks of stuff 
and to Jackie's point we all have stuff 
right but you gotta have somebody say 
here's the stuff that's in front of you 
and open up the stuff and start to maybe 
lighten the baggage right that's what 
the work does is we get to put some 
things in our backpacks out because 
we've now looked at them resolved them 
and we can put them to the side right 
but we've all got that baggage it's how 
heavy is it and that the weight of the 
baggage is determined by the amount of 
work and some other baggage issues are 
like if a guy is sitting there he might 
be thinking my wife left me for another 
man all women leave I'm not trusting 
someone that could be baggage or you 
know you know um 
uh I've been hurt way too much I'm not 
going to put myself in this position 
again 
so you know it could have nothing to do 
with you maybe the person really liked 
you almost too much yeah and they just 
now can't cope absolutely or maybe this 
person has dysfunctional issues and 
they're looking for somebody who's super 
dramatic and you're just a normal nice 
person right and you're not triggering 
their own attachment issues so that's 
their baggage that's not yours don't 
pick it up and don't say 
this is my fault I did something no it's 
not just say 
he's got something there's nothing I can 
do about it and move on get back online 
take the second date option whatever it 
is but get keep yourself going and don't 
let that get you down and finally reason 
number 10 
I'm gonna quote my one of my favorite 
movies of all time He's Just Not That 
Into You so I don't know if people 
listening to this if if you've seen the 
movie if you haven't please rent it it's 
fantastic it's really funny and 
entertaining but it also sends a very 
good message and actually He's Just Not 
That Into You the movie came from a 
non-fiction book that was written by 
these people and the whole premise of it 
is that look if somebody really likes 
you they will make it happen and if they 
don't let it go because you don't even 
want that anyway you want somebody that 
really wants you and will make it happen 
with you and don't settle for anything 
but that 
100 percent and a little bit more 
background on the guy that wrote He's 
Just Not That Into You Greg Barron he 
was a writer for sex in the city and so 
he would start to field so many 
questions he's like I would sit there at 
work working with mainly women producers 
and listen to all of these travails how 
they would talk to each other and how 
women will be like oh my God it must be 
blah blah blah it must be blah blah blah 
and he was like I didn't tell you as a 
guy that dude is Just Not That Into You 
Move On right even if it's reasons one 
through nine and you don't hear from him 
and you've sent the nudge text and he's 
got baggage and then this and then that 
at a certain point move on if he's not 
that into you here's what I tell our 
clients at Smart dating Academy women 
that are looking for men I want this 
person to like you just a little bit 
more than you like them right it's 
probably advice your grandmother might 
have given you and yet it's so true 
because if you think about like a scale 
if he likes you 51 near 49 nine percent 
what that means is he's going to 
treasure you adore you and move 
mountains to be with you a man that 
wants to be with you and Jackie tell me 
if you agree we'll move those mountains 
to be with you 
absolutely and I actually think did you 
talk to my mom before you just said that 
because it's exactly what she has always 
said to me and it is so true and it 
doesn't mean that you can't be head over 
heels with him also but he needs to like 
you just a little tiny bit more it's 
true 
absolutely so 
ladies and gentlemen I hope you have 
enjoyed this podcast and this is giving 
you a little bit of levity a little bit 
of light a little bit of rationale and 
most importantly what I hope that you 
take with you is if you don't hear from 
somebody send a nudge text and if you 
don't hear from them 
you know what who cares bless them and 
release them and move on to the hundreds 
of people that are going to be 
interested in you because they are out 
there and we Jackie and I are 
psychotically optimistic for you and we 
know that beyond the shadow of any doubt 
love is coming to you keep doing what 
you're doing stay patient stay positive 
stay perseverant through this and get 
the help that you need right check out 
Jackie's Community Check out divorce 
girls smiling right come to Smart dating 
Academy there are resources that weren't 
available 20 and 30 years ago and now 
you don't need to fight this fight alone 
so Jackie thank you so much for being 
here and for sharing your wealth of 
knowledge with us oh it was my pleasure 
thanks so much for having me Bella all 
right smart taters schedule your 
consultation with us and like I said 
join the online dating love lab Sunday 
January 8th on the busiest online dating 
day of the year you cannot go wrong we 
will send you our proprietary book to 
write your online profile we'll tell you 
exactly how to have the right photos how 
to message you'll get more information 
in this three hour session and 
one-on-one ability to ask questions than 
you will at any other time of the year 
so with that being said have a great 
week and we'll see you next week 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love welcome back to 
the podcast ladies and gents I'm so 
excited to have with me my friend 
America's favorite divorce expert 
attorney mediator she's just and host of 
the divorce and Beyond podcast Susan 
Guthrie and Susan posted something 
really interesting recently on Instagram 
which caught my eye and it was the 
number one 
unexpected relationship killer 46 of 
divorced couples agree so of course I 
was like what is that and I started to 
read the study and there's some really 
interesting nuggets in there so Susan 
welcome back to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm so happy to be back fella 
thanks so much for having me and I agree 
with you this headline caught my eye as 
well okay Susan tell us I'm gonna hand 
the mic over to you tell us about the 
data you looked at the study and what 
you found 
yeah it was interesting it was actually 
yesterday I was scrolling through my 
news feed and I saw that headline that 
basically said that 46 of divorced 
couples say this was the number one 
cause of conflict in their relationship 
and as a divorce attorney for 30 years I 
thought I know what I I know that right 
I knew what that answer was going to be 
but then the rest of the headline said 
and it isn't money and I was like but 
wait a minute that's what I thought it 
was going to be right of course I had to 
scroll through right people are always 
fighting about money 
um but when I scrolled through I have to 
say I was very surprised to see what the 
number one cause of conflict was that 
these couples cited 
okay tell us should we do a drum roll no 
let's do drumroll done 
you can do your magic wands and do our 
drum roll exactly so the number one 
cause of conflict was career choices 
between the spouses which I thought was 
so interesting and did they talk about 
what that means is it I'm choosing not 
to work and you dear husband will work 
or is it what I do for work and what he 
does for work like what did it say I'm 
so fascinated you know it and I will say 
it didn't go too deeply into it in the 
background information so those are 
questions that I would have as well but 
what it did seem to say is it's an 
amalgamation of issues all those things 
that you just mentioned are a part of 
this so it might be part of the the 
situation and I will tell you as a 
divorce attorney I've seen all of these 
be a part of the Paradigm between a 
couple that is you know really sort of 
worked at the under paintings of that 
relationship some of it might be one 
party is a stay-at-home or lesser 
earning spouse in order to take care of 
the family but that over time starts to 
cause resentment on the part of the one 
who's going out and being the 
breadwinner I've seen that 
um I've seen situations and it sort of 
alluded to this where 
career changes or career choices have 
brought about lifestyle changes for a 
family or for a couple I mean you know 
we were just talking about I moved to 
Chicago from Beautiful Sunday San Diego 
for my husband's career and let me tell 
you he pays for that sometimes every 
once in a while usually during the 
Chicago Winters 
um but right so so there may be 
relationship or 
um issues that have come about as a 
result of some of the choices that need 
to be made 
um but I think it all comes down to 
um really you know it's hard to 
prioritize two careers in one 
relationship 
no and that's so true Susan I think at 
Smart dating Academy we clearly see 
people that come out of divorce or you 
know I can say out of even a breakup 
maybe there wasn't an official divorce 
but and then as they get back into the 
dating world the question is who do I 
look for this time around and I'll tell 
you career choices from my vantage point 
right and you just mentioned you've got 
a big career you're an entrepreneur a 
podcaster a public speaker your husband 
is a CEO c-suite person right two big 
careers my husband and I similar two big 
careers we've got a 15 year old and a 19 
year old at home and what I tell people 
in this you can be with anybody okay you 
can have a big career he can have a big 
career you can both be retired whatever 
that is but 
are you going to align with each other 
and as you're getting into the 
relationship understand 
how are you going to prioritize each 
other how were you both going to feel 
like you are getting what you want from 
my vantage point I may have to go at the 
drop of the hat tomorrow to go to New 
York City to do a show Andy might have 
to go to Tulsa Oklahoma for a three-day 
work conference for one of his clients 
but for both of us no matter what the 
dollar amount has been and our dollars 
have changed over the years there are 
years he's out earned me there are years 
I've out earned him but what we have 
always vowed to do is support the other 
person not necessarily support who's got 
the bigger paycheck at that moment and 
that person becomes more important 
because to your point what does that do 
it breeds resentment as soon as one 
person becomes more important you feel 
like well I'm just the less important 
sidekick so really having these 
conversations how are you going to 
navigate this could not be more crucial 
so really at the end of the day what so 
much of divorce and breakups what it's 
caused by is not 
anticipating what the issues could be 
and then communicating about it and 
using your voice 
yeah and you know you've just used the 
two words that I think are the most 
critical in all of this is the 
anticipating that's one of the reasons 
why I posted this study is I I think 
it's really very valuable for people 
going into relationships to your 
listeners right now to people who your 
clients at Smart dating Academy I know 
you work with them on this type of 
awareness of the issues that might arise 
in relationships because you if you 
think about these things ahead of time 
you can do the next important thing that 
you mentioned you can communicate about 
them and I will tell you you know this 
survey was really about what causes 
conflict 
underneath I think every single one of 
the things or at least many of the 
things that were in that top list of 
seven reasons that are seven things that 
cause conflict a lot of that comes down 
to at its core poor communication around 
those issues 
um so ultimately maybe communication is 
really the the bottom line 
um because when resentment builds if 
you're not communicating about that 
resentment it just it continues to grow 
right in these relationships absolutely 
and with regard to LeapFrog off of your 
point about communication the thing that 
underlies communication is the ethos 
with which you're looking at your 
relationship you were the most important 
person in my life you are the lid to my 
pot and I want you to be happy right and 
when you look at your partner in that 
way you're communicate education and 
what you want for them also greatly is 
affected versus just the sheer I want 
this and I want this right we're so 
often that's what we think communication 
is but number one it's looking at your 
person saying I really want you to be 
happy and I want you to be the best 
version of yourself and I want you to 
grow and they want the same for you so 
when you look at each other with those 
lenses truly your communication will be 
much clearer and it's going to result in 
a win-win because you both want the best 
for each other right it's like wow if 
I've got to go to New York and you've 
got to go to Tulsa at the same time can 
we Loop in one of our parents or our 
Nanny like how do we support each other 
versus 
frictionalizing something so simple 
right and and unfortunately 
you know there's that that famous book 
um difficult conversations and how to 
have them 
people look at these conversations as 
difficult conversations and they don't 
have them they sort of avoid them 
um or they come at them I think it's 
really important what you just said from 
that eye perspective of what I want as 
opposed to that eye perspective I want 
you to be happy so although it's still I 
want the focus is on the other person 
um and and you know unfortunately 
that is a cycle at least that I have 
seen as a divorce attorney so again I'm 
seeing relationships that have ended 
that have come to a point that could not 
be say they could not be saved right 
um 
where that lack of communication that 
resentment the conflict it's an ongoing 
cycle it doesn't end it builds and until 
it gets to that point and for some 
couples it's a short period of time I 
just saw something that flashed across 
my screen that said Britney Spears and 
her husband are getting a divorce after 
13 months of marriage right so you might 
see a short-term marriage I know it just 
came across as we were as we're talking 
here so I'll throw it out there right 
short term or I've I think the longest 
marriage that I ever 
um handled in my career as a divorce 
attorney was something along the lines 
of 48 years a couple who had been 
together but by the time they got to 
that end point resentment was a great 
deal of of what I would say and it you 
know whether it was over career choices 
or decisions that they had made there 
are a number of other reasons for 
conflict between couples that this study 
found 
but at the very end of it these were two 
people who barely knew each other 
because they hadn't communicated for so 
much of that time period 48 years right 
and why are we not communicating that's 
really the question to get at right to 
what somebody feels slighted we feel 
less important we feel hurt we feel shut 
out and so we shut down so it's mining 
the reasons underneath to get back to 
that level of communication but to your 
point you know I love John gottman is 
the famous marriage researcher that 
looked at couples for years and years in 
his Seattle love labs and got it down to 
I think within 10 seconds he could ask a 
couple like tell me about a conflict you 
have in your marriage and by watching 
their body language for 10 seconds he 
could predict with 95 accuracy which of 
those couples would go on to stay 
married and which would go on to divorce 
right and I think the four horsemen that 
he talks about are criticism 
contempt 
defensiveness and stonewalling right and 
if you think about that and in 10 
seconds he can call that so there are so 
many feelings that lead to that lack of 
communication and gottman on this point 
Susan of communication says something 
that I find so funny and so accurate and 
I'm sure as a long-term married person 
you will too it's like you know at the 
end of the day sometimes communication 
can be overrated like just agree that 
there are things that you're going to 
disagree about and when you start to go 
down those dark Pathways gottman says 
have a funny lighten it up like stick 
your tongue out of each other like 
basically that means this is our agree 
to disagree mode so let's just not go 
there and know we don't need to 
communicate about this because we don't 
see eye to eye so let's stick to the 90 
of stuff that we do agree on and I'm 
like I think that's genius right I love 
it and I won't tell you what David and I 
use as our little symbol but uh 
yeah we we double flip the bird at each 
other and start laughing because that's 
our you know we don't disagree at that 
level very often but you're right I uh 
gottman is the you know really the gold 
standard of relationship information 
besides you 
um and 
um and you know absolutely and I will I 
will tell you those The Four Horsemen of 
those four contempt is the one that I I 
have seen most often as a divorce 
attorney and it's interesting because 
in relationships and I'm thinking of 
what this survey said about career 
choices bringing about conflict 
contempt or belittling the partner who's 
not earning as much or who doesn't have 
the biggest job or whatever that is 
um comes out as contempt from the one 
partner to the to the other and uh you 
know that that made me think of that 
when you were saying that because that's 
what I then see if I've represented the 
party who was the bigger bread winner or 
the bigger career person they very much 
felt they had contempt for the lack of 
income or lack of importance of the job 
of their spouse meanwhile they probably 
made the decision that that person would 
be a stay-at-home parent or would put 
their career in a lesser mode or maybe 
they were very happy doing something 
that wasn't as high-powered as the other 
one but now it shows it's contempt right 
right right and I think you know about 
career choices and for those of you who 
are in the dating pool right you know 
it's like wow I'd like my partner to 
have tons of money and be really 
successful and not be a workaholic and 
have good work life balance at the end 
of the day this is an arena where most 
likely you're not gonna get it all and 
there are going to be trade-offs right 
and so how do you think the person got 
super successful not by you know a 
four-hour work week sorry I don't know 
who the hell that works for Tim Ferriss 
which certainly doesn't work for me I 
wish I wish it worked right it sold out 
a lot of books that's for sure including 
me I was like wow yeah no that didn't 
work for me I'm gonna go back to the 
40-hour work week or so so really right 
you work more than 40 hours I know you 
yeah yes 100 so it really you know 
you're you're gonna have to choose 
things so you may not need as much money 
as you think you do you might want 
someone who makes enough to pay the 
bills but can also have dinner with you 
five nights a week and is going to be 
home and can take trips and can do 
things and can binge a Netflix series 
with you and isn't going to be gone five 
days a week traveling every single week 
right I mean I've been through all these 
phases with my husband and I can tell 
you some of them cause more chaos and 
tumult to our relationship so I can tell 
you really as you're out there think 
about wow what do what do I want to feel 
in this relationship this time around 
and don't get so caught up in the 
standard checklist of things that you 
want so that's my public service 
announcement for people that are as 
we're talking about career choices it's 
really easy to say yeah I want the 
person who's got two commas in their and 
their salary and blah blah blah but ask 
yourself do you want all the entrapments 
that come with that yeah yeah I mean 
it's making me think of the number one 
thing you tell me people always ask for 
on their wish list and that's someone 
who's tall but uh you know tall 
a CEO Rich who's home all the time 
except when I don't want them to be 
you know 
exactly who's at my beck and call but 
still lets me go on girls weekends but 
wants to be with me all day and can just 
unplug it's like wow that's Disney 
that's not real life right so and and 
sometimes I think people get caught in 
relationships with those expectations 
it's like well 
he's never home or she's never home it's 
like what did you think was gonna happen 
right do you think things were going to 
magically change when you got married no 
your problems when you're dating become 
your problems when you're married 
except except exacerbated right because 
now you're married and now you you might 
add children into this mix or joint 
finances or all the other things that we 
we know that can go on that add 
additional stressors and I do think that 
that's something that people you know 
need to be aware of because we're 
talking about career choices but that's 
the other thing you were talking about 
awareness earlier being aware of so that 
you can communicate about these 
potential causes of conflict face it 
every relationship friends family 
spouses significant others all 
relationships are going to experience 
Conflict at some point in time 
so having 
something and having some awareness of 
what might arise and having 
um put some thought on your own part as 
to what's a priority and what's 
important to you because you're going 
and talking about it throughout having 
that ability to have the open 
communication about it because I was 
looking at some of the other things on 
the list here so number two was 
parenting differences which I tell this 
to people all the time because you know 
when people are going through divorce 
they almost never agree on what is in 
the best interest of their children 
right it seems like such a simple 
standard yet they you know never do but 
the reality is married couples don't 
agree on what is best for their children 
all the time either 
um you know so that doesn't surprise me 
that it's there but the number three one 
I wanted to touch on because this is one 
that I've definitely seen and it kind of 
goes back to the career choices I think 
is the division of household labor 
um that was a biggie 
um way ahead of finances way about 
arguing over money although maybe that 
comes into it in the division of 
household labor but 
um I think that that one is is something 
that could be talked about and 
communicated about uh and we should be 
thinking about as we go into 
relationships as well should I give you 
should I give our listeners the quote I 
gave you when we were prepping for this 
for all of you ladies out there that are 
listening I have been known to say for 
the last decade right I'm an Ardent 
feminist and but I say feminism is an 
ant right 
we now get to work 
and we get to do all the things we've 
done domestically for the last thousands 
and thousands of years it's been an and 
we haven't 
successfully 
transitioned those responsibilities and 
really getting that division of labor I 
have so many friends that are double 
income Working Families they husband 
works wife works or you know wife wife 
whatever it is both partners are working 
there are kids at home and it is hard 
right the division of labor the driving 
around the prepping the cooking the 
cleaning the deep cleaning right the 
thinking about who's going to pay the 
bills oh my God we need a new car all of 
those things and the couples a statistic 
I read a couple of months ago I couldn't 
agree with more and I've been talking 
about this to our smart daters that are 
in our VIP coaching at Smart dating 
Academy is the relationships that are 
predicted to do the best long term Susan 
gets at the point of this study are more 
they called it androgynous and I don't 
know if that's a cancelable word right 
now but work with me here basically 
where both people are doing very similar 
things they're pulling their weight 
outside of the home and they're pulling 
their weight inside of the home and 
those will be the happiest long-term 
relationships going forward 
yeah and and I I had not read that study 
but it's making me think of another 
headline I saw recently and I'll have to 
find it but it was about this 
concept that is so hardwired into us 
that women are caregivers and men are 
the hunter Hunters right they are the 
the bring home the bacon and women are 
the caregivers and and people have a 
belief that that is hardwired into our 
DNA and in fact Studies have shown that 
to not be true at all 
and that men are just as able and and 
giving of caregiving as women and women 
have just as much ability but we 
societally if I said that correctly but 
generally 
yeah we have genderized this into the 
little woman and the big strong man sort 
of concept and because we are so 
socialized to it we actually believe 
it's in our DNA we actually believe that 
it's a part of you know if you're a 
woman this is your you are a more 
nurturing you know individual and if you 
are a man you are more you know I don't 
know manly 
um and so I thought that was that was 
truly you know a very very interesting 
thing because we don't 
we don't but we buy into it 100 until it 
doesn't suit us I also see you know at 
the time of divorce and I'll say this 
and this won't be super positive for 
some of the women listening but I always 
hear this as well at the time of the 
divorce that well I'm the mother I 
should have the children with me all of 
the time I'm the caretaker I am the one 
who should you know have them they 
should be with me that's normal that's 
natural that's the way things should be 
and when I point out dads are just as 
capable of nurturing and caring and and 
maybe it's this societal Norms that 
we're living along with 
um you know we get a little bit of 
pushback on that at the same time so 
what you were saying about the the 
um feminism we also play into it to a 
certain degree I mean we have to have 
our realizations that uh yes we can rail 
against it but we've also played into it 
a certain bit we don't get to be the 
caregiver and then complain about being 
the caregiver perhaps if you know what I 
mean am I making any sense no perfectly 
and I think Society also rewards us and 
yet repudiates us for doing it so I 
think that there's so many gender 
politics and Dynamics behind this but I 
love the fact that it's not built into 
us we're not wired for certain things we 
might have a uterus and can build a baby 
and then birth the baby and we've got 
more oxytocin which is the attachment 
hormone right which makes us not throw 
our babies out of the window and you 
know do those kinds of things but I 
think long term you're exactly right and 
I couldn't agree with your data more 
right like I'm the harder parent to some 
extent with more rules more you know 
boundaries on money and curfews and Andy 
is more the soft teddy bear that they 
will go to like can we can I have 50 
bucks because I really want to do this 
and I'm like wait a second that's coming 
out of your account so at the end of the 
day you can say is that nurturing or is 
that not nurturing at the end of the day 
right and that's my DNA like you say 
you're gonna do this this is what you're 
gonna do period right so 
so and he's the softer one so and I 
don't think he was genderized to be that 
way nor was I genderized to be this way 
so I agree with you I agree with your 
observation in the headline that you 
read that a lot of this is you are who 
you are you do you Boo and pick a 
partner that compliments who you are 
ultimately right it's not about tall and 
sexy and who's making what kind of money 
there's way bigger things at play here 
and I know you know we've got people 
know us and we've got all sorts of rules 
right there's a 15-day Rule and there's 
exclusivity and we're going to have a 
dating funnel now why do we do all of 
that people it's for precisely these 
reasons we are kicking the tires and 
helping you to ask the questions that 
you don't know how to ask or you might 
not even want to ask them and we're 
going no no you're going to ask this 
question right now right and really 
helping to say is this partner going to 
be good for me long term are we aligned 
do we want the same things do we value 
each other in the ways we want to be 
valued that's what partner selection and 
that's what dating should ultimately 
bring you 
yeah you know what you just said 
something that I think is really really 
important because you you said we help 
people ask the questions and people may 
be taking that as you give them the 
questions to ask the potential 
significant other but I think one of the 
most valuable things that I know that 
you do is they actually give them the 
questions to ask themselves like you 
just did right there right that's what 
the the magic of Bella Gandhi and the 
Smart dating Academy is right that's 
that I don't know that people truly 
understand is this isn't all about how 
to make yourself look pretty to a 
potential mate or attract somebody it is 
truly about getting to know yourself at 
that granular level and getting to know 
this potential spouse 
or potential you know significant other 
um in a way that because you know 
yourself so well and you've gotten to 
know them that well you know whether 
those two are going to be able to come 
together 
and that's the beauty really it is 
it is and and it's it's 
the most important thing you can do is 
to Susan's Point know yourself know what 
you want and then have the courage to 
ask the questions this reminds me of the 
story of one of my best friends who 
um we went at my own wedding she had 
been dating this guy she was a 
bridesmaid in my wedding one of my two 
childhood best friends and she had been 
dating a guy for a year and a half who 
was a few years older than us and he was 
super into playing soccer right he 
played soccer at his little Milwaukee 
college and played pickup games and so 
she's in my wedding giving a speech the 
day before the wedding he says to her 
you know what I'm not going to be able 
to go to the wedding we're gonna we 
decided the guys are gonna play soccer 
tomorrow 
and I was like 
hold up he just left you dateless at 
your best friend's wedding which has 
been on the calendar for months 
so that was a giant red flag for me so 
now a year later right waving NASCAR red 
flag so a year later I'm married our 
other best friend is now engaged and my 
girlfriend is crying going I don't know 
I don't know where this is going and I 
said I want you to ask him one question 
and she's like anything mind you we are 
27 years old I said ask him are you 
going to marry me 
she's like well I I don't I I I'm sure 
he would I I said I want you to ask him 
this question tonight and I want you to 
call me as soon as you ask him the 
question 
Susan she called him asked him the 
question 
are you going to marry me they had been 
together for over three and a half years 
and he looked at her and he said 
now 
that weekend 
I got a pickup truck 
my two best friends 
Andy we went and we moved her out of his 
apartment while she was at work she came 
home 
looked at us all of her stuff was packed 
up we had told her parents we were 
bringing her back home to Libertyville 
she looked at us she cried we had pizza 
we put her back in the truck she is now 
happily married and has two daughters 
one of whom was going to Indiana with my 
daughter so I will tell you the right 
questions are crucial and this was far 
before I started Smart dating Academy in 
fact she was one of the ones who was 
like you need to do this and teach 
people how to do this because I could 
have waited forever but you made me ask 
the question that I didn't have the 
courage to ask and then you made me act 
on it she's like you moved me out 
basically if you don't remember your 
pickup truck was involved right ladies 
and gentlemen so if you need this kind 
of help we're we're full service at 
Smart dating Academy pick up truck and 
all just kidding but really asking the 
right question that was in our 20s asked 
the questions today okay think of what 
you want and don't be afraid and if you 
need help at sussing out how to do this 
in a relationship that you're in for 
God's sake there are so many people out 
there schedule a session with me go to 
our website sign up listen to podcast 
episodes but don't stew in this and most 
importantly don't have to do this on 
your own anymore there are resources 
listen to Susan her podcast the divorce 
and Beyond podcast is phenomenal Susan 
is a recent breakout television Star as 
well you can see her on the national 
news Nation show if you tune in and 
she's an amazing wealth of information 
tune back into our podcast sign up for 
our our newsletter go to 
smartdatingacademy.com fill out any form 
get with it you guys take the power that 
you have inside of you to know yourself 
to know what you want in dating to know 
what you need to know how you want to 
feel and do something beautiful for 
yourself today so until next week I bid 
you farewell and give you tons of 
psychotic optimism in that pickup truck 
I rented for my girlfriend so if you 
need it consider that pickup truck of 
psychotic optimism it just landed in 
your driveway so we'll see you next week 


46 of divorce couples say this was the 
number one cause of conflict in their 
relationship and as a divorce attorney 
for 30 years I thought I knew what that 
answer was going to be but then the rest 
of the headline said and it isn't money 
and I was like but wait a minute that's 
what I thought it was going to be I have 
to say I was very surprised to see what 
the number one cause of conflict was 
that these couples cited okay tell us 
should we do a drum roll 
you can do your magic wands and do our 
hair exactly so the number one cause of 
conflict was career choices and I will 
tell you as a divorce attorney I've seen 
all of these 


[Music] 
foreign 
[Music] 
dating Academy podcast I'm bellagonde 
the founder of Smart dating Academy and 
your host I started Smart dating Academy 
in 2009 because I had this crazy Knack 
of giving people dating advice that 
actually worked that I took I've been 
married for almost 25 years and now my 
company helps people to date smarter and 
to find love this podcast is meant to 
bring more love into your life no matter 
where you are and what you do and we're 
here to bring more life into your love 
you guys welcome back to the smartdating 
academy podcast I am so so excited and I 
know you know me by now and I know that 
you know that there's a lot of things 
that get me really excited but today 
I'm gonna use one of my favorite words 
I'm extraordinarily 
excited because of my guest who is not 
only someone who I'm sure you've seen on 
TV I'm sure you've seen at various spots 
in the media and I'm really proud to 
also say that she is a dear friend of 
mine I'm so happy to have my friend 
Danielle robay join us today Danielle 
welcome hi Bella I'm so happy to be with 
you you guys just because Danielle is so 
extraordinary I'm gonna literally read 
you her bio so you know what a freaking 
rock star this young 30 year old is who 
has created a life that she loves and 
she's bringing more love into her life 
but we will get to Danielle and dating 
towards the middle end of this podcast I 
gotta warm her up a little bit you know 
what I mean but let me tell you about 
Danielle Danielle is a TV host and 
journalist currently a correspondent for 
I am MDB and nbc4la and creator of the 
video podcast which is so awesome you 
guys called pretty smart you've seen her 
on hln's Dr Drew e extra Entertainment 
Tonight The Steve Harvey Show NBC's 
first look and defy media were her Daily 
News segments and interviews received 
over 100 million views a month online in 
2016. she was named co-host of wciu's 
chicago-based the jam making her the 
youngest morning TV host in Chicago's 
history and side note that is where I 
met Danielle on the jam as one of her 
guests with the loyal social media 
following of over 300 000 followers 
she's Chad with everyone from Taylor 
Swift to Michael B Jordan to Helen 
Mirren and Tom Hanks even Larry King 
says about Danielle's compelling 
interviewing style Danielle has the 
ability to make make people feel seen 
and you guys that and that and that is 
the reason Danielle is here and a 
wonderfully esteemed guest on the Smart 
dating Academy podcast so now that 
everybody knows what a great young rock 
star you are Danielle like just tell us 
about you did you always you grew up in 
Chicago did you always want to be in 
media and journalism like did you ever 
imagine you'd be as big of a rock star 
as you are no that's so nice of you I 
don't feel like a rock star 
you know it's funny sometimes when I 
interview 
um successful actors I'm like does 
success feel the way you thought it 
would and almost all of them are like I 
don't feel successful 
um so I guess it's human nature but uh 
no I I always wanted to be a journalist 
I loved asking questions I've been 
um innately curious about why since I 
can remember and then when I actually 
got to do it for the first time in 
college I interned at 
um a few networks like in Madison 
Wisconsin where I went to school I knew 
this is what I wanted to do I wanted to 
tell stories amazing amazing and I can 
tell you just personally getting to know 
Danielle you know more off the set at 
the gym we would have these wonderfully 
long decadent coffee lunch dates at 
summer house in Lincoln Park in Chicago 
and getting to know her was such a treat 
because to be with someone who was so 
Soulful and really introspective and so 
genuinely interesting but interested in 
others she's a rare bird and you know if 
you haven't seen what she looks like 
she's as beautiful outside as she is on 
the inside so you're amazing and your 
conversations meant so much to me oh 
yeah you're one of my people like I I 
look to you as as a North star so 
well I feel exactly the same about you 
and I'm just I want you to tell our 
listeners like if you had to you know 
you you have so many abilities and you 
noticed you knew what you wanted to do 
at a young age with I think so many 
people Envy including me it took me so 
long and you know into my early 30s to 
figure out what I wanted to be when I 
grew up and when I started this company 
but you know what you know kind of what 
would you tell people 
about creating a life that they loved 
that's 
a million dollar question 
um you know I think it goes back to 
asking yourself questions 
and I think I got lucky early on I I 
didn't really even know I wasn't 
intentional about asking questions I 
felt drawn to something and went with it 
but if you do feel confused or you 
haven't tapped into the thing that 
lights you up 
I think the best thing to do is start 
asking yourself questions 
um what gives you energy every day what 
drains your energy every day 
um I think if you ask yourself those two 
questions and write down the answer for 
30 days at the end of the 30 days it'd 
be really interesting to see 
what all those answers add up to and I 
think you would feel more directed 
that is oh my gosh say it again for the 
people in the back what a gem I mean 
what a huge piece of advice that can 
really what lights you up and what 
drains you and journaling about that 
every day I mean sometimes people ask me 
you know because I come from finance and 
then manufacturing like how did you how 
did you become a dating coach and how 
did you put Smart dating Academy 
together and a process not as elegantly 
articulated as you just did but I said 
what am like what do I love to do every 
single day and that list was long and 
then the next question in my in the 
bellagonde list was out of those things 
what am I actually good at so that 
really long list got really really short 
really suddenly but that's really how I 
started to be able to look at what are 
my strengths because I didn't have to 
wear with all to ask myself the 
questions that you are telling us to 
answer what am I good at 
where do I light people up what brings 
me joy and it took me until I unplugged 
my second job to sit down and ask those 
questions so for those of you and this 
could be in any aspect of your life 
right what lights you up and what drains 
you and start to look at those things to 
bring more elements of the things that 
you love into your life and to start to 
mercilessly prune the things that drain 
you right and Danielle what surprised 
you about the things that Lit you up and 
the things that drained you 
um well I actually didn't ask myself 
those specific questions because I 
didn't like you didn't know I didn't 
know you know like I think I wish I had 
somebody to tell me that 
um when I was 20. I don't even maybe I 
would have gone in a different direction 
um but now I ask myself those 
intentional questions and usually the 
things that drain me are my love life 
but 
the things that light me up 
um 
you know for me it's all about 
connection I think when you have 
a great conversation with somebody and 
you both like you can feel it when it 
just connects 
and sometimes you can have you could be 
somebody you love and it's just a boring 
conversation because those happen but 
somebody says something or a spark is 
lit and you both feel the connection and 
it just vibrates and you leave that 
conversation feeling energized and 
excited and lit up and like that type of 
connection is what I'm after and a all 
of my interviews be I wish in my love 
life and see 
um you know like in in any relationship 
so yeah I think for me it's connection 
connection is so so important and I'm 
gonna I I love that it's like when you 
feel that Vibe with a certain someone 
right and whether it's professionally or 
personally like when you make new 
friends like I felt that Vibe it's like 
instant chemistry with Danielle you meet 
someone you're like I would like to have 
a second date with you because you're 
fun and you're cool and you're smart and 
we can have these conversations that you 
know that are just going to stay at that 
table and not leave the table now what I 
will tell you in the dating world is if 
you're feeling that like super vibe that 
super electricity and those butterflies 
it might 
not necessarily be a good Harbinger for 
your dating life because sometimes when 
we feel that instant electricity that 
chemistry and even worse those 
butterflies in our stomach that could be 
our gut telling us hey sweet girl you've 
been here before and that didn't end up 
so well so sometimes that electricity in 
dating conversations right away where 
you're like oh my God I feel like we've 
known each other for three lifetimes you 
probably have and it was your three 
toxic axes 
yeah you taught me that because you said 
to me when we were having a drink in La 
one time I think you did the Kelly 
Clarkson show and then we met for drinks 
that's right and you were like I think 
you're a little bit anxiously attached 
and I I'd never heard of any attachment 
Styles before 
um so I went down you sent me down a 
real rabbit hole because I started 
reading that book attached 
um and I realized I am a little bit 
anxiously attached and so I'm working 
towards becoming secure 
and remember number one the awareness 
you ask yourself the question am I what 
kind of attachment do I have and people 
that are anxiously attached can be 
amazing Partners I find myself drinking 
on anxious to secure and I think that 
when we find somebody that is a secure 
partner for us we're the best Partners 
let's tutor our own horns we create best 
Partners we're very eager to please 
we're eager to please and we care and we 
get the details right we get the big 
things right we get the small things 
right but I'm so glad that you're aware 
of that because sometimes you know when 
you're anxiously attached it can mean 
that not the best people activate your 
attachment system right and it can mean 
someone who's kind of you know the 
antagonist to your protagonist let's 
just say you know someone who's more 
emotionally unavailable maybe just 
emotionally avoidant to you sort of 
Feels Like Home to some extent and 
you're like oh wow boom this is exciting 
your attachment system turns on and 
you're like oh my gosh this feels so 
good and exciting but that excitement 
actually what it is is it's putting your 
seat belt on on a roller coaster ride 
and you know that and you've clicked and 
you know you're in for some ups and some 
downs and that's sometimes what that 
electricity can be in those first 
conversations so what you want to do and 
I'm so glad Danielle raised this point 
is really checking in with yourself like 
wait a second is this a Vibe because we 
really have like a Soulful connection 
and something real or is this oh my God 
in my god of guts this person reminds me 
of a really good time with my ex 
and it takes me back to that so I'm glad 
that you raised that I'm glad that you 
raised that in in conversation and 
Danielle has done something you guys and 
I didn't even know this I mean we've 
been friends forever and I know 
Danielle's got her new podcast called 
pretty smart but she's also become an 
entrepreneur and this product that she's 
developed is so near and dear to my 
heart because I love questions and 
meaningful conversations so she's 
developed well first of all I'm going to 
tell you it's a card deck that's filled 
with questions for conversations but I'm 
not going to spoil it I want Danielle to 
tell the story like tell us the story 
like what led you to do this yeah so 
um I had been I at this point I've been 
asking people questions professionally 
for about a decade 
and I'd like to say probably not 
professionally for way longer 
so when I moved to LA one of the big 
jobs I got was at an Entertainment 
Network that I had always wanted to work 
at it was I thought gonna be my dream 
job dream job I was so excited I was 
like the youngest person they'd ever 
hired and I walked in 
and within a few weeks I was miserable I 
broke out into hives every day I would 
cry in the bathroom at lunch I ended up 
quitting the job and living off my 
credit cards and was unemployed for 
eight months 
um I never I thought no one was ever 
gonna hire me again I was a little bit 
depressed and one of the things I did to 
try to actively or be proactive and get 
out of my depression from being 
unemployed was ask myself all of the 
questions that I had been asking 
celebrities like Michael B Jordan and 
Helen Mirren and entrepreneurs like Mark 
Cuban for years so I had a Google doc of 
about 800 questions 
and each day I'd ask myself five or six 
I realized I had never asked myself one 
question this was like pre-therapy 
and at the end of eight months I felt 
way more in touch with who I was I was 
more interesting at dinner because I had 
practiced asking questions 
um I had more to say more to more to 
talk about and I thought you know 
everybody wants this everybody is 
curious and they want connection and 
they want to know about other people 
they just maybe a don't know what to ask 
or B feel nervous entering a 
conversation I mean like I I spark 
conversation for a living and sometimes 
I feel nervous or don't know what to ask 
yeah I created a card deck called 
question everything it's 52 questions 
for deeper conversation and speak to my 
soul with that yeah so at the end of my 
podcast I always pick one random one and 
ask people 
um but yeah I I've tested them out on 
I've done them at a bachelorette party 
I've done them with my dad I've done 
them 
um with you know potential dates and 
they're really fun and they really I 
think spark meaningful stories and 
laughter and conversation that creates 
moments you know it's not just mundane 
who are your siblings where are you from 
um they're moment makers 
oh my gosh I literally like there's so 
many places I can imagine this being 
used even in my own life like I'm 
married and have been married for you 
know a long time over 20 years but I 
could see playing this game in a sense 
and asking questions to my husband and I 
bet you I'd be surprised by at least 50 
percent of the answers that he gave to 
these questions and then playing it with 
my kids as well an extended family and 
then of course we have to look at what 
the best day questions are Danielle and 
I know you know dating is something that 
you are debating doing again 
um I wish you guys could see the 
expression on my face I think Danielle 
is so adorable and has created this 
badass life that she loves already and 
so now we're just gonna bring romantic 
love into her life so what Bella's 
alluding to is that I'm a bad dater I 
don't enjoy dating and so I don't do it 
a lot 
okay now for those of you for those of 
you who are sitting there going I don't 
like dating either now and you think 
it's just you because oh I'm not cute 
enough I'm not smart enough I'm not I'm 
too old okay Danielle as Danielle and if 
you see her right Danielle dressed up 
for Ariana Grande for Halloween because 
she could pull that off okay let's just 
say that's what Danielle sort of looks 
like so if Danielle doesn't like dating 
it just gives the rest of us a sigh of 
relief so Danielle are you gonna commit 
in 2022 to bringing some dating into 
your life intentionally 
I am and you also gave me a really good 
tip because 
I sort of feel exhausted by getting 
ready for dates 
um because I have to get ready for work 
like everybody else and yeah I just it 
just like if people ask me to dinner I 
don't want to sit at a dinner for two 
hours so you said I need to do a video 
chat for 30 minutes and I could do one 
or two 
and that I'm in for I am committed to 
that absolutely now now let's back up to 
this conversation Danielle is not dating 
at all and I was like look you know when 
you get to that point you could don't 
waste hair and makeup you could set up a 
few she's like oh you know that's great 
I could set up eight dates right away I 
was like okay overachiever here's what 
we're gonna do we're gonna turn the 
volume down on that let's do one okay 
and then have fun and set it up with 
boundaries okay say how about we grab 
coffee from five to five thirty over the 
app or over Zoom you can do all of this 
in app you guys you don't have to give 
up your email addresses and set up a 
zoom you can just press like in match or 
Bumble you can just press a blue button 
and you'll be on a video chat obviously 
schedule that don't Ambush anybody with 
the video chat because God knows we need 
to like fluff and judge and do the 
things but then put boundaries around it 
don't set up a date that gives you 
anxiety because you don't know how to 
end the video chat you don't want to be 
rude say I've got dinner plans at 6 30. 
how about we grab coffee or a happy hour 
from 5 to 5 30 on the app okay that's it 
you're limited to 30 minutes and you 
know what I say crazy cannot hide for 
more than 10 minutes it comes leaping 
out of the damn closet so if crazy comes 
out guess what you can just be like oh 
my God my connection's going out and end 
the day so date over Game Over Control 
Alt Delete abort function you're done 
and to your point Danielle with feeling 
anxious about going to dates who 
wouldn't have their anxiety provoked by 
going out to meet a complete stranger 
and then thinking to yourself right what 
are the anxiety provoking thoughts it's 
not oh my gosh what if this is really 
fun that's not what plagues us it's what 
if this person like tell me what gives 
you if you have to sit and you're 
getting ready for a date right now what 
are the thoughts that give you anxiety 
as you're getting ready for the date 
it's a great question number one is like 
uh how am I gonna get out of the date 
because I'm bad at like and like even 
work meetings I never know how to end 
the phone call right and I like they 
just the dates go on and on and on and 
because I'm a decent conversationalist 
like I can kind of fake it you know and 
so they just go on and on and I I just I 
gotta get out you gotta get out so I'm 
glad that you told me about your anxiety 
so this is now a coaching session 
same thing with real dates put 
boundaries around it say how about if 
the person passes the video screen for 
you right okay and now you can lather 
rinse repeat do more video with that 
person you don't have to Spring straight 
to dinner okay so you have the option to 
do more video dates you can say hey I've 
developed this cool card game I'm gonna 
send you it and we can ask each other 
three questions right check somebody's 
curiosity and their flexibility and 
their openness to dating in a different 
way and then when you're ready to 
actually meet in person you can say I've 
got dinner plans at eight o'clock how 
about we meet for drinks from 6 to 7 30. 
yeah constrain it think about what gives 
you the anxiety and solve for that if 
you want an exit stage left plan that's 
the way to do it so now even if the 
date's going well let's say you set it 
up from six to seven thirty and you're 
like oh my God I don't want to leave you 
can leave at 7 45 and just leave the 
person wanting more because the research 
shows that our brains start to interpret 
anybody even the best of people in a 
more negative light after two hours and 
15 minutes 
so keep your dates limited 
wow that is fascinating 
well there was also 
tell me what you think about this 
because one of the things with my card 
deck that I thought was interesting is 
that there was a Harvard Business Review 
study published by uh Allison wood and 
Leslie K and it's called the surprising 
power of questions and they cite that 
the most common complaint people make 
after having a conversation such as a 
first date or a work meeting or an 
interview is I wish so and so had asked 
me more questions it's like this reward 
cycle right it's like we improve our 
emotional intelligence and it makes us 
better questioners which continues the 
whole cycle 
so how do I stop asking questions 
because I've also gotten feedback that 
oh this feels like an interview it's a 
deposition not a date 
do I just let silence happen 
well what you can do sometimes we can be 
great listeners but we're not good 
sharers 
right that's me that is me I I get it 
because when I read that I was like oh 
God guilty right and it takes a really 
interest it takes right it takes me 
trusting somebody to be a sharer because 
I'm very similar well it can compel you 
with questions because I'm inherently 
curious and I want to get to know you 
and I love people and I love hearing 
people's stories but yes in order to not 
make it feel like a deposition I would 
say if I had your card deck what I would 
do is I would look at the questions 
first and I would do what you did back 
in the day and say well I'm going to ask 
myself six of these questions a day and 
develop my own muscle at answering these 
questions so instead of just taking the 
card deck out and then blindly asking 
questions play with yourself and answer 
the questions on your own you guys and 
not only me will you be a more 
interesting dater but you're going to be 
a more interesting date because you will 
have the answers ready to go and it's 
something that Danielle said when and I 
think it was earlier in this 
conversation that doing this like 
preparing answers to questions made her 
a heck of a lot more interesting at 
dinners in all of these conversations so 
I can't wait to because I'm not a great 
sharer and so having your card deck in 
order to really look at myself and say 
God how would I answer that I feel like 
that in and of itself is a great way for 
people like you like me and maybe for 
those of you listening to become better 
sharers and sometimes sharing just means 
you're prepared and you know the answer 
no you're so right that's great advice 
and you and I in our jobs I'm a coach 
I'm a podcast host my goal is to get to 
know other people and ask the questions 
to be able to give advice back right in 
order to give so I think this will be a 
great benefit for me to have to sit down 
with me and say well how would I answer 
that question so are there a couple of 
questions like if you know those of you 
there's probably a lot of single people 
that are listening to us are there some 
questions that you as a single person 
with your card deck in hand what would 
you like someone to ask you or what do 
you think are some good dating questions 
in your deck 
that's a good one because I also think 
you don't want to get too deep 
necessarily like you can freak somebody 
out no no stay out of the dark alleys 
like what's your greatest trauma how's 
your relationship with your mother 
that's not even the definition of 
vulnerability right because people talk 
so much about it I want to be vulnerable 
remember brene Brown says vulnerability 
without boundaries is not vulnerability 
yeah it's over sharing it's over sharing 
and that'll leave someone like going to 
the bathroom and maybe not coming back 
so yes and I've had people do that to me 
and it feels weird so I think this one's 
fun it's do plants Thrive or die in your 
care 
that feels like a fun one that's a great 
question do plants die or thrive in your 
care 
I love that what's the story behind your 
name what's your nickname and who gave 
it to you 
um people have surprisingly interesting 
stories behind their names and you kind 
of get to know about their parents and 
their background 
um and then like their friends because 
their friends usually nickname them 
I love that I love that do you want me 
to share a little tidbit tell me yeah 
about your name so growing up my parents 
just like the name Bella and it's one L 
right and it's kind of an Indian name 
but it's also like globally a very 
unisex name but what's interesting is 
if you know me well you can tell 
what period of Life by what someone 
addresses me where they come from do 
they come from like my college life or 
before or do they come from my 
professional life anybody that knows me 
from back in the day really well calls 
me Belle they never ever ever ever ever 
call me Bella my family my best friends 
from that time my husband his parents 
it's uh if somebody calls me Bella 
they're pissed right because I'm like oh 
my God if he uses like my full name I'm 
like oh my God you're mad so it's so 
strange but in my in my post in my 
professional life nobody calls me Belle 
and it's just funny and and I don't know 
if people started calling me that I 
would be completely fine with it but 
it's just it's so interesting so that's 
my name story I love that and I see I 
didn't know that and I've known you for 
years yeah right so you could call me 
Bell if you wanted to I'm going to start 
putting you know I'm dropping the a 
exactly you're like hey Val what's going 
on exactly okay so now you tell me which 
one you like better because 
this could be maybe a little deep 
so what's something you wish people 
could see about you that they don't see 
at first glance 
or 
this is a three-part what compliment do 
you hear the most which compliment means 
the most to you and which one makes you 
the most uncomfortable 
um 
okay so I'm going to answer your first 
question was which one is let's say more 
date appropriate like the initial dates 
I think the compliment question is a 
lighter question okay okay but it still 
allows you to shine on a date without 
having to say what's something that more 
people would notice about you because 
that's kind of a poking beneath the 
veneer and we're getting a little deeper 
now right I wish people would see that 
I'm really an introvert but I play an 
extrovert on TV whatever that is but if 
somebody's like oh what's the compliment 
that you always get right and so that's 
really nice and remember and I love that 
you picked that question and I swear you 
guys we I even have the card deck in my 
hands right now but that's such a great 
question Danielle that you picked you're 
going to be such a good dater because 
you want dates to feel fun and positive 
where people get to talk about the the 
things that light them up which is 
usually themselves to your point which 
is why you've created this but then the 
positive things about themselves because 
at the end of the day what do we all 
crave we want to be seen we want to be 
respected and admired and we want to 
hear some words of affirmation right and 
so that question is so brilliant so say 
the question again and it's three parts 
what compliment do you hear most often 
which complement means the most to you 
and which compliment makes you the most 
uncomfortable okay so interesting so I 
love that so I am like so excited and so 
now you know you can ask that on a date 
yeah now we have stock questions we're 
prepared to ask exactly you and I are 
gonna have an offline session a date 
coaching session where we're gonna we're 
gonna separate your card deck into okay 
it says dates one through three this is 
five through ten and this is after you 
have children 
I love it how does that sound that's 
perfect I definitely need that thank you 
oh my gosh I am so excited for 
um and I will certainly I know I'm 
definitely gonna buy these and so you 
guys will put a link in the show notes 
as to where you two can get these cards 
and I just think it's a fun idea number 
one we're supporting our girl Danielle 
who is stretching her wings as an 
entrepreneur so I'm all about a rising 
tide should lift all boats so we can 
support Danielle because she's Danielle 
and she's doing her heart's desire and 
not only are you not only are you doing 
that but you're also helping yourself 
because you like me are gonna sit down 
and answer those damn questions for 
yourself and you might need to journal 
but then think about how much more 
prepared you're gonna feel at 
Thanksgiving dinners at holiday dinners 
for your Valentine's Day dates because I 
know you guys are all going to have 
Valentine's Day dates so I'm so excited 
and you know I'm just I'm so grateful 
and I know how busy your schedule is and 
I'm so grateful that you took the time 
out to have this conversation with me to 
have this conversation with our audience 
about creating that life that you love 
and asking yourself those questions you 
guys what lights me up and what drains 
me if there's some juice in here take 
that and make that list for yourself 
today and know that as much of a life as 
Danielle has created for herself that 
she loves she's still just like so many 
of you looking to bring more love into 
her life so what I want to tell you is 
we are all in this together holding 
hands bringing more love into the world 
and I'm so grateful that you were here 
and Danielle is there any you know kind 
of last thing that you'd like to share 
with people just you know I don't know a 
bit of advice something to make their 
life better or something whatever 
because you know 
I've lately been thinking because people 
will ask me 
um about conversation a lot right 
because I do it every day and they're 
like how do I how do I become more 
interesting or how do I make a moment 
and I kept thinking that the most 
interesting thing is to be interested 
and so if you don't know what to say 
just ask a question and it actually I 
thought her therapists do this with kids 
they'll ask what do you think about the 
snow or what do you like basic things to 
build confidence because they want to 
know that their opinion matters and I 
think adults are the same way so the 
most interesting thing is to be 
interested 
oh I love that like we need to make 
t-shirts out of so many things that have 
been said during this conversation with 
Danielle don't you think so Danielle 
thank you so much for joining us and for 
all of you guys listening if you love 
this episode 
download it review it I don't want it 
Valentine's Day present I don't want a 
birthday present give us a review tell 
us what you thought grab Danielle's card 
deck and follow me on Smart dating 
Academy on Instagram we do free 
Instagram live show our goal is to put 
more love into your life and bring more 
life into your love so thank you as 
always for being here with us and we 
will see you next time thanks Danielle 
thanks Belle no a 


negative reappraisal and this is the 
best and most proven way to get over 
your grief about somebody what negative 
reappraisal is guys is it's basically 
putting logic to this what beige flags 
are tick-tockers would say beige flags 
were flags that somebody was really 
beige boring vanilla as beige flag 
started to get talked about more and 
more what we found is that the 
definition of the beige flag now means 
it's kind of a fun fact or something 
quirky about you or your partner a nudge 
text what is that so it's a text which 
basically not just the person into an 
action if someone is interested they'll 
respond quickly going oh my gosh I 
thought they didn't have any fun but 
they did and I like them so let's do 
this a lot of times the nudge Works does 
it always work no but good energy out 
there wish them well and look for people 
that are into you 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love I am so excited 
about today's episode and we're going to 
be talking about something that has come 
up for so many people my clients it's 
come up in my own personal life with 
people in my friend's personal lives and 
we're going to talk about toxic 
friendships are you in one and why that 
can have a deadly effect on your life 
and your dating life and then we're 
going to talk about the Red Zone what is 
the red zone Elizabeth welcome to the 
show my friend Dr E 
thanks so much for having me it's always 
good to be with you oh my gosh well you 
are the opposite of a toxic friend you 
are what I would call an elevator person 
elevator friend out of your Ted Talk 
which was so amazing so make sure that 
everyone who's listening has watched it 
at least 10 times well I will put a link 
to my TED Talks it's called the secret 
to finding lasting love but it's all 
about defining who your elevator people 
are so we'll have a TED Talk note in 
there about the kind of friends you 
should have but Elizabeth tell us just 
kind of tell us a little bit about toxic 
friendships and and let's hop right into 
it 
yeah so toxic friendships are very 
one-sided they are take take take take 
and you know you're in a toxic 
relationship if you feel worse about 
yourself when you're with that person or 
even thinking about being with that 
person when you dread when they text 
when they're asking you to do things 
over and over and over again and they 
again they're they're taking they're 
taking they're taking but they are not 
reciprocating 
and why do we stay in relationships like 
that 
well 
um sorry it's starting to Absolute poor 
here so if you hear that mother nature 
why do we stay in that type of 
relationship well a couple of things one 
um 
generalization for women we want to be 
nice right 
yeah yeah exactly so we want to we want 
to be helpful and and a lot of times in 
a toxic relationship it's um oh no no 
I'm gonna help you out and then they say 
they're going to do something and then 
they don't and they don't so we want to 
give them the benefit of the doubt well 
they said they were going to they 
probably will but in a psychological 
perspective if I was going to put like 
my shrink hat on there's something 
called variable reinforcement and 
variable reinforcement means you are 
reinforced you get you know a thumbs up 
something positive at variable 
time frames 
so I'll give an example a slot machine 
is a variable reinforcement right people 
put their money and they hit the button 
and they never know if they're going to 
win or lose and they lose and they lose 
and they lose and they lose and suddenly 
they win and it's such a hit of dopamine 
in their brain it feels so good and then 
they go back to losing and losing losing 
but there's no Rhyme or Reason to it 
it's not like every five times then you 
win or every five minutes and you win 
it's variable reinforcement and in 
Psychology variable reinforcement is 
actually the best way to get someone to 
continue to doing what they're doing so 
what does that have to do with toxic 
relationships in toxic relationships 
usually they'll be taking and taking but 
then they'll maybe give once right 
they'll be it'll be uncomfortable with 
them and then they'll give you a 
compliment it feels so good and you get 
that dopamine rush in your head that you 
just want to keep at that relationship 
to get it again and again 
wow oh I can think of so many people I 
know that have talked about being in 
relationships like that and you're right 
I mean one of the greatest Hallmarks is 
if you feel worse about yourself I think 
you said right and tell us about some 
other signs that you're in a toxic 
relationship 
she no longer trusts that person right 
they say they're going to do something 
and they don't actually do that you 
question start to question their 
intentions you know 
it's that internal barometer your 
intuition your gut feeling is telling 
you um something's not right here or 
other people are telling you something's 
not right maybe you're hearing stories 
about this person of what they're saying 
about other people or saying about you 
or just unkind things that they're doing 
um you make excuses for them when people 
say oh no stay away from them you make 
excuses you justify their behaviors you 
tend to feel used you tend to feel like 
you are in the Red Zone when you are 
with them or feel even you know just 
thinking about being with them 
um and then they criticize you they 
blame you they they put you down they 
may be controlling you can't you know 
being mad at you for hanging out with 
other friends for example all of these 
are signs of a toxic relationship 
wow and it's so interesting I think 
toxic relationships can begin you know 
and they're not only for women I think a 
lot of times women get you know oh women 
bring drama women are toxic women can't 
have real friendships with each other 
but I have a son and I have a daughter 
and I've seen toxic friendships happen 
at the kid level uh with both genders do 
you think that's true absolutely 
absolutely yup yup yup and you're right 
it does get attributed more to drama but 
I mean we're talking about friendships I 
mean in a romantic relationships we 
definitely can see a lot of toxicity 
um coming from uh you know a man but it 
it it's really it's not gender specific 
at all these are people who and if you 
think about someone who is the um that 
the toxic part of a toxic relationship 
you know a lot of times they are hurt a 
lot of times they have very low 
self-confidence and self-worth a lot of 
times they haven't had the modeling of 
what a healthy relationship is so they 
don't even know how to have a healthy 
relationship that doesn't excuse their 
behavior doesn't mean you should stay in 
this relationship because they have 
never had a good relationship but it 
does help us better understand and if we 
can understand why someone's doing 
something instead of blaming ourselves 
personalizing it oh it's because I'm bad 
there's something wrong with me if we 
can understand it empathize where 
they're coming from then we can really 
take steps to move forward and whether 
that's moving forward to help Salvage 
that relationship or moving forward to 
say you know what 
um I care about you and this is just not 
a good relationship for me exactly 
exactly and here's my friend Dr 
Elizabeth Lombardo and you should make 
an appointment to go see her stat 
because you've got some mental health 
stuff going on right you can support 
people in that way and say I think you 
do I think it would be helpful for you 
if you talk to a therapist about this 
absolutely it's because what happens is 
a lot of times if you are the toxic 
person in the relationship we've already 
established you probably you know have a 
lot going on emotionally and 
psychologically and you haven't learned 
those skills and learning the skills of 
how to have a healthy relationship are 
just skills right and if you haven't 
learned them there's nothing wrong with 
you you just need to learn the skills 
it's kind of like if you don't know I 
don't know if someone doesn't know how 
to read you don't say what's wrong with 
you you say hey let's teach you how to 
read we'll give you that skill and then 
you'll move on 
um and then someone who's been in in a 
toxic relationship what tends to happen 
is they start to internalize the 
messages they either overtly hear you're 
no good you're no good without me or 
that are are subtly communicated and 
just like a song on the radio you ever 
heard a song on the radio and you didn't 
like it first time you heard it you keep 
in it again and again and you really 
don't like it and then you start singing 
it yourself because you've internalized 
it that's what happens a lot from the 
messages from a toxic relationship so 
it's really important if you are in one 
if you have been one to really address 
your own psychological well-being and if 
that's with a therapist or a coach it's 
absolutely vital that you that you take 
care of what's going on up in your mind 
so that you move on because if you don't 
we know you know just from I'm sure 
people's experiences you're more likely 
to be in a toxic relationship again and 
again and again and again you just want 
to react reenact the trauma of it and 
it's comfortable if you want to it's 
that it's just so familiar it's it's 
just so habitual how people treat you 
you just get used to that and again if 
you've been in a toxic relationship a 
lot of times people think on a deeper 
level they think well I deserve this 
this is the best that I can get I would 
rather be with someone and be unhappy 
than be alone and be lonely and what I 
would say is you can't really attract 
more positive relationships in your life 
if you're at this really low vibration 
if you're in that toxic relationship 
there's only so much energy out there so 
it's vital not only that you get out but 
you also address your own mental 
well-being so that you are establishing 
boundaries so that you are taking care 
of yourself so that you are attracting 
someone in your in into your life as a 
friend or a partner or whatever 
um who who is really what you want in 
your life as opposed to what you're 
willing to settle for 
yeah and I and I hear you and if your 
vibrations and your vibrational state is 
low and you really think I'm not good 
enough or this is the best friendship 
I've ever had or I ever could have 
everybody leaves me right and when we're 
messaging ourselves from this then we 
become more apt to continue to tolerate 
this so at a certain point when you get 
yourself into therapy or coaching and 
work on these issues that you may have 
from childhood stuff or early mean girl 
stuff or whatever it was and address 
that more fundamentally that you are 
good enough and that you are a person 
that people want to be around and you 
elevate your own vibrational level 
you'll start to bring in those people so 
I love what you're saying like and you 
know question people ask me often is 
okay you know on the Smart dating side 
we help people stay you know people that 
have chronically been with red flaggy 
people or narcissistic people to not 
date them anymore right that's the 
intervention that we do like no no no 
okay there you go again 
no no no no let's Veer back over into 
safe harbors when as a practicing 
therapist and you do such amazing work 
and you're a prolific author do people 
come to you and say I am toxic 
I have issues like having good 
relationships is it me maybe I'm the 
toxic one because people ask me that all 
the time we don't tend to get the toxic 
people into Smart dating Academy we tend 
to get the ones that have been on the 
receiving end of that that are like left 
reeling so my question for them is why 
are you accepting this Behavior but do 
you as a therapist get the people that 
are like I suck 
well it's interesting because even 
people who are creating the toxicity in 
a relationship tend to feel like a 
victim 
so it's very much I'm in these 
relationships it's it's their fault or 
or 
um you know there's something wrong with 
me that that I keep getting into these 
relationships but it's they don't really 
take accountability like oh it's because 
I you know keep keep taking and taking 
it's because I put the other person down 
oh maybe that's why our relationship 
hasn't been working very rarely just the 
person who's who's kind of creating the 
toxicity they usually don't have that 
self-awareness right they don't take the 
time to say huh maybe the common 
denominator in all of these messes is me 
right no no no no it's very much blaming 
you know all gender you know men women 
whatever are untrustable I'm I'm 
unlovable I'm never going to find 
someone and here's the thing you know we 
get these messages and and by the way I 
I practice the type of psychology and 
coaching that's very here and now and 
future oriented I know a lot of 
strengths spend a whole lot of time in 
childhood I don't do that having said 
that in our first eight years of life 
we're basically operating on a 
subconscious level what does that mean 
it means we absorb things without even 
realizing it so our subconscious is like 
a sponge if you think it's about a 
sponge you put it in water what does it 
do 
absorbs water right wring it out put it 
in milk what does it do 
right it doesn't say I don't do dairy it 
just absorbs the milk so our 
subconscious is very much like that and 
so especially you know maybe there were 
messages when we were younger or if we 
keep hearing these messages over and 
over again we start to internalize them 
and and start to believe them on a 
deeper level not rationally rationally I 
know I'm worthy of love but deep down I 
do not feel it and that's where you 
really need to work with someone who can 
help the way I phrase it is rewire your 
brain not just affirmations I believe in 
myself but really changing how your mind 
processes information and these changes 
when you do it correctly then are 
sustainable I.E you always think this 
new way 
so amazing and I'm curious do you feel 
that people that create a lot of 
toxicity in their friendships will also 
do the same in their romantic 
relationships yes because here's the 
thing 
this the the drama which is kind of what 
we can call the toxicity relationship 
that drama is 
um I I used it before it's that dopamine 
hit right stress I mean if you say to 
someone do you want more stress people 
like no way but people get very used to 
the stress hormones circulating through 
their brains and their bodies and that 
is their norm and not having that can be 
very uncomfortable I'm going to give an 
unrelated example but a lot of times 
when people start meditating they'll be 
like oh my gosh it is so exceptionally 
uncomfortable for me to sit in silence 
for five minutes because they're so used 
to having whether it's you know 
stimulation from from a you know social 
media or their phone or you know 
whatever they're so used to all this 
going on they're so used to having 
stress in their life that just having 
nothingness or opening up to nothingness 
is really uncomfortable 
I I don't like to use the word addicted 
but I would say people get very used to 
having all of the stress in their bodies 
and in their minds and so that becomes 
their Norm 
um so yes definitely the carryover goes 
into 
um into you know dating relationships it 
can go into family I mean I was working 
with this um person once who came to me 
and as I'm as I'm talking to him he had 
disowned his mother his his siblings his 
his ex-wife like all of these people in 
his life and it was everyone else's 
fault 
um so yeah 
it's a consistent pattern it's a 
consistent pattern got it and you know a 
couple of other questions on toxic 
friendships this is so awesome you say 
about toxic friendships that we should 
check our own internal dialogue before 
declaring a relationship toxic what do 
you mean by that check our internal 
dialogue well because it's not events 
it's not what someone says or does that 
makes it toxic it's it's our 
interpretation of it and I have worked 
with many clients who 
um and and a lot of times it's couples 
but it could also be friendships where 
they view something in one way 
but when they're when we're stressed out 
when we're overwhelmed we tend to view 
things in a more negative way 
that's being in the Resident right we're 
having high levels of stress we negative 
filter we focus on what's wrong we 
personalize other people's actions and 
so we may be misinterpreting what the 
other person is doing what their 
intentions are and so then we put a you 
know we put a oh that they're toxic 
individual or I mean the word narcissist 
which you know people love to use 
they're not as many narcissists like 
true narcissistic personality disorder 
they're not as many narcissists out 
there as as we seem to give credit for 
do people have narcissistic Tendencies 
of course frankly we all do sometimes we 
all do right so but but when we focus 
only on that and you know what you focus 
on grows so if you focus on something 
that they did wrong and then you you all 
you can think about is what they did 
wrong and how they made you feel 
horrible and then it's their fault that 
I feel horrible about myself as to 
saying supposed to saying okay so he was 
there she was late you know to 
um respond to me I could view that as 
talks if she doesn't care about me I'm 
going through a tough time and what's 
wrong with her or I could realize wow 
I'm going through a tough time I know 
she's got a lot going on you know on her 
plate too let me give her the benefit of 
the doubt so so instead of just jumping 
into it's their fault they're toxic take 
a step back and say how if you could 
stick a microphone in your brain what 
are you saying to yourself about this 
person and then how accurate and how 
helpful is that amen one of my key 
things and it's hard to do this to say 
wait a second is this a story I'm 
telling myself or what is the story I'm 
telling myself right now about the fact 
that he was 30 minutes late about the 
fact that she didn't respond to my text 
for two weeks right and so the story I'm 
telling myself usually comes down to I'm 
not important I'm not good enough like 
if you go down down down right and we 
just yep I'm not worthy of Love yep and 
and so if you can check yourself with is 
this the story I'm telling myself could 
there be another interpretation for what 
just happened silky and it's also about 
our rules we all have rules about how 
people should act right and and we often 
aren't aware of those rules until 
they've been broken so if your rule is 
if someone texts you I have a great I 
have a great example my husband had a 
friend who his rule was if he called in 
and didn't leave a message that you 
should call him back 
because you'll you'd see on the cell 
phone missed call 
and and he got really upset with my 
husband for not calling back my 
husband's like this is where my husband 
was working my husband's like uh I have 
like a gazillion messages if you didn't 
leave a message I just think you butt 
dialed so my husband's rule was uh you 
know you don't have to call back if 
someone doesn't leave a message so they 
both had their own rules my husband you 
know wasn't really faced by it but this 
other guy was really upset by it and 
like didn't touch my asthma for a couple 
couple months I was just like what like 
what is going on but it was because of 
this broken rule so ask yourself if 
you're shooting on this person they 
should do this they should do that that 
is a rule that's broken and you want to 
ask yourself sometimes the rules can be 
really healthy and helpful and sometimes 
they're just things that we've kind of 
come up with over the course of Our 
Lives that we aren't even aware of so 
asking yourself is this a rule is it 
healthy and helpful and if it is then 
you want to clearly communicate to the 
other person here's the deal when I call 
you and don't leave you a message I just 
want you to know what I'm hoping that 
you're gonna do is that you're going to 
call me back and they may say well just 
text me then or absolutely now that I 
know I can do that I mean you can have 
that conversation being assertive is key 
when it comes to good relationships 
well and that brings me to my next 
question what are some what are some 
steps that you can take if you've done 
all the things you've checked your 
internal dialogue and you feel that this 
is indeed a toxic relationship do you 
break up with this person do you just 
slow fade on them like what are the 
right steps to do yeah so I'd say the 
first thing is to take responsibility 
even if you're in a toxic relationship 
you have you're in it and what do I mean 
by that we teach people how to treat us 
if we let people walk all over us 
they're going to learn oh this is okay 
and they're going to keep doing it and 
yet the person who's being walked all 
over you know in their mind is just you 
know getting what I would say more and 
more Red Zone you're more and more upset 
about it but they've never taken 
responsibility for for saying hey this 
isn't okay so first and foremost realize 
take responsibility that doesn't mean 
it's all your fault it doesn't mean you 
deserve this it doesn't mean any of this 
it does mean that one you teach people 
how to how to treat you and two 
you know in a relationship it takes two 
to tango I.E if you decide to get better 
the relationship might get better if you 
decide to take a step away that's your 
choice too but be empowered as opposed 
to the victim of this other person 
I love that use your voice say what you 
need say what you need and do the thing 
well you've referred to this a couple of 
times let's what is the red zone what is 
this Red Zone you can talk about to know 
what is the red zone and how does it 
affect us is it something we should stay 
away from so this it's a psychological 
Red Zone not the football Red Zone um 
okay and the psychological red zone is 
when we're high levels of stress or what 
in Psychology we call distress distress 
is the negative aspect of stress so it 
could be feelings like anger frustration 
anxiety fear overwhelm guilt shame 
hopelessness helplessness worthlessness 
all goes in the distress pile and 
distress exists on a Continuum from zero 
none at all to 10 out of 10 the most 
distressed you've ever been so for 
example if you're angry at a 10 out of 
10 you might yelling you might have the 
proverbial steam coming out of your ears 
that kind of thing and the Red Zone 
happens when we're at a seven out of ten 
or higher a seven out of 10 or higher 
that's when we're in the red zone and 
not only does that involve more intense 
emotions but they're actually some 
biological changes that occur in our 
brain in terms of which part of our 
brain we are using in the red zone as 
opposed to in what I call the green zone 
a zero one two three 
and what happens when we flip into the 
red zone of the brain yeah so let's do a 
quick pop quiz if we could have you ever 
said or done something you later 
regretted 
never of course I have what was it no 
I'm just kidding I'm kidding don't tell 
me um have you ever procrastinated or 
avoided an important project 
uh yeah yeah like um in the last five 
minutes absolutely I'm like today 
have you ever 
um been so overwhelmed that you can't 
focus or you can't sleep 
yes so all of those are signs that 
you're in the Red Zone when we're in the 
Red Zone our mind focuses on the problem 
and we get really stuck in it and 
there's a biological reason for this so 
in the green zone those low levels of 
distress we're using more of our frontal 
lobe right that beautiful structure that 
differentiates us from other animals it 
allows us to engage in executive 
functioning problem solving perspective 
taking when we're in the green zone we 
can see all different perspectives this 
is where confidence happens right I'm 
not perfect but I believe in myself this 
is where love happens right ah that 
person's doing something that's annoying 
it's okay it's just who they are we can 
see all perspectives 
as we go up on this distress scale our 
Focus Narrows so that when you get into 
the Red Zone when I get into Red Zone 
when anyone gets into the Red Zone 
that's seven then eat that nine that ten 
instead of seeing the positives and 
negatives we're focusing almost 
exclusively on the negatives it's like 
called you called negative filtering 
we're focusing on what's wrong and 
there's a biological basis for this 
because instead of that beautiful 
frontal lobe that rational thinking our 
limbic system emotional reasoning fight 
or flight basically hijacks our rational 
thinking so we think differently when 
we're in the red zone as opposed to when 
we're out of the red zone 
okay so limbic system would mean you get 
into fight or flight at that point 
exactly so think about it in in 
prehistoric times if arcade ancestors 
heard a wrestling in the bush and I 
thought it's probably nothing 
they probably wouldn't live another 
moment right they took care of the 
animal or they got rid of it then they 
got out of the red zone so in the Red 
Zone they're focused on the problem 
that's all they can say 
they took care of it they got it out of 
the red zone 
so our sources of stress are usually not 
short-term like that they're more 
long-term right Health hello pandemic 
what's happening in the world financial 
issues work issues all these are very 
chronic and so a lot of people are 
basically living in the red zone and 
they're not thinking 100 rationally and 
they aren't acting 100 rationally but 
they aren't even aware of that 
and how does one become aware of it and 
if you say yeah you know I kind of live 
at a seven eight and I need to I'd like 
to get out of red and proceed back to 
green 
right right pink 
so so the first thing is yeah to to 
really be aware of it and and so one way 
to do that is ask yourself on a scale 
from zero to ten where am I say in the 
past week 
and I will say and giving Keynotes 
sometimes wait for it in person now 
spend 
um I asked people to share of course A 
lot of times where where are you and 
usually at least 50 of the audience in 
the past week and they've been in the 
Red Zone average 
so just asking yourself that question 
having I often encourage my clients to 
have a pop-up on their phone every hour 
or two where are you what's your number 
yeah you know whatever cue you need to 
start to be aware of oh this is how it 
feels but there are three red flags to 
let us know when we're in the red zone 
one is emotions you don't want when 
you're feeling very angry or irritable 
or sad or anxious it's probably an 
indicator you're in the Red Zone the 
second thing is 
physical Sensations you don't want for a 
lot of people when they're in the Red 
Zone they get a headache or back pain or 
you know GI disturbance I remember when 
I was um working on my dissertation I 
walked by the mirror and this is how I 
looked 
my ears and my shoulders have become one 
right because all my red zones goes into 
my neck so physical Sensations is 
another one and then the third is 
behaviors engaging in behaviors that you 
don't want to maybe you're more 
irritable with loved ones maybe you are 
over consuming things or maybe you're 
procrastinating and avoiding certain 
things all of those are red flags that 
you might be in the red zone and the key 
is to realize that you're in the red 
zone and when you were in the Red Zone 
you don't think rationally and you don't 
act rationally so I have a client right 
now 
we have so much fun together 
um but but it's really funny because 
she'll start talking about a problem and 
she's really worried about something and 
then she'll stop and she'll be like I'm 
RedZone thinking right now like your 
reds don't think you're right now if you 
were in the green zone how might you 
view this differently 
because again we think differently we 
have to be aware when we're in the 
region we're not thinking wrestling and 
this has nothing to do with IQ or you 
know education level when I'm in the Red 
Zone I don't think rationally right so 
the key is just to be aware of that and 
to get yourself out of the Red Zone 
because once you're out of the Red Zone 
then you're using more of that frontal 
lobe then you're using more of your 
rational thinking then you can really 
determine is my thinking how helpful 
what are some steps that I can take how 
can I help myself in this situation but 
it's really hard to do that when we're 
in the red zone 
so let's say something happens to me at 
work and how do I know and I'm 
distressed and you know I how do I know 
I'm in my red zone right you're like 
okay my emotions my physical Sensations 
my behaviors but is there is there 
something else if I can say to myself 
you know what if I can't find any 
positives in this situation I'm in the 
Red Zone if I cannot see another 
perspective except mine I'm in the Red 
Zone like I'm trying to think cerebrally 
from a day to day right I'm a business 
owner what do I like what is is there a 
question I can ask myself 
so I love that thinking and here's the 
deal all of those questions to even 
think about require your frontal lobe 
which ain't working at that time 
so that awareness of wow I can't 
actually see anything positive right now 
I must be in the red zone 
that's either low red zone or you're not 
even in the red zone to be able to have 
that thought you're all right you have 
to sort of get meta and no it's like 
when I'm feeling crappy or mad or 
frustrated or sad I have to sort of Rise 
Above Bella 
are you able to see other perspectives 
at this moment and just asking yourself 
at least for me it sounds like if I can 
develop that sort of meta awareness like 
wait a second ask yourself this question 
right now it can automatically push me 
back down to yellow or green just with 
that awareness 
if you can have that awareness in the in 
the red zone that is great I would 
suggest having an external 
um cue for yourself so maybe if it's 
something that you've been you know 
dealing with maybe even having like a 
posted on your computer 
so that it goes because again it's 
really hard to it's hard to think 
rationally when we're in the red zone 
I'll give an example I was working with 
a client 
um and she it's there's a particular 
um individual with whom she works who 
just put her in the Red Zone every 
interaction they had and she told me she 
said I could hear your voice my clients 
always tell me they can they can hear it 
like I'm like in their heads she's like 
I could hear you telling me to be 
grateful and I just didn't want to be 
that is a great example of Red Zone 
because in the Red Zone like our 
subconscious feels like it is basically 
drowning that's not the time to practice 
God right and so so if you notice 
yourself I can't you know I don't want 
to think of anything positive right now 
that's a great sign that you're in the 
red zone right I want to punch her in 
the face that's Red Zone and that would 
be Red Zone yeah ah okay by the way I 
have I have a saying if you think you 
are you probably are so um the beauty is 
you know if you take the steps to get 
out of the Red Zone even if you were 
just at a what I call I call you know uh 
green yellow red so even if you're in 
the yellow zone it's not gonna hurt 
things but if you think you are you 
probably are and also start to train 
yourself to identify from zero to ten 
where am I right now you're going into a 
meeting where am I right now you come 
out of the meeting where am I right now 
and while this may seem kind of tedious 
the more you do it the more aware you 
are of all those subtle signs and 
symptoms whether it's your thinking or 
your emotions or your physical 
Sensations or your behaviors you start 
to train yourself to be aware of where 
you are on the scale I love that and now 
let's say you have said okay I'm 
training myself to not be an eight at 
all times how do I get myself into green 
how do I exit the Red Zone like exit 
stage left we're going to open the red 
door and we're going to walk into the 
green hallway how do I get to the green 
hallway 
so the first step is to get out of the 
Red Zone and then the second step is to 
stay out of the Red Zone because we 
can't think rationally when we're in the 
red zone so the ways 
um the ways to help ourselves we're in 
the Red Zone I created something called 
the helm principle help and so when you 
are in the Red Zone you want to grab 
stress by the helm H stands for halt 
halt all movement in this region of your 
body and that would be your mouth when 
you are in the Red Zone do not let 
anything out of your mouth because 
that's when we say things we later 
regret and don't put anything in your 
mouth because that's when we tend to 
consume things related crap I will say 
um and 
um I think it's important that we all 
remember that we're all human there were 
several times particularly during 
quarantine when I had not one but two 
hands over my mouth so that I would not 
respond to one of my children 
because I was just so there was just a 
lot of tension going on there's a lot of 
stress going on so halt don't let 
anything out out of your mouth in your 
mouth e of the helm principle is 
exercise 
I'm not talking about 90 minutes of yoga 
I'm talking about moving your body right 
Jumping on the Bed doing some push-ups 
sit-up squats jogging up some stairs 
going for a brisk walk what does this do 
it doesn't change your life but it 
releases biochemicals in your brain so 
that you can start to get out of that 
red zone so that's e-l is laughter you 
know laughter is the best medicine right 
um the other day my teenager was being 
rather teenagery and I felt myself 
creeping up and I said to her because in 
our household we have conversations 
about Red Zone it's very discussed and 
normalized because we all get into the 
Red Zone and when we get into the Red 
Zone we apologize for it my youngest the 
other day not the other day excuse me 
last night was snippy about something 
and I knew she was in the Red Zone a 
letter B she texted me about 30 minutes 
later I'm sorry I was I was snippy with 
you I'm stressed out about my exam I I 
apologize 
that's a 15 year old all because she 
understands the Red Zone but anyway so 
my other my other teenager was was being 
teenager and I came in here my my home 
office I got on YouTube and I watched 
some SNL skits the laughter got me out 
of the Red Zone then I could go back and 
have a conversation with her where I 
could be assertive as opposed to 
aggressive or passive aggressive right 
and then the uh M of the helmet 
principles music I'm sure you've you've 
we've all heard a song that we haven't 
heard in in years or depending on our 
age decades and it brings us right back 
to that time right music has a very 
powerful impact on our emotions so I 
recommend to my coaching clients that 
they have a get out of the Red Zone 
playlist of songs that bring them back 
to happier time maybe they like the beat 
the lyrics they can dance around get two 
of those you know aspects of the 
principle but it's really powerful 
because again in the Red Zone it's hard 
to think what song do I want to listen 
to now if you just hit play that can get 
you out and then once you're out that's 
when you can start to really deal with 
what is going on 
wow and this that's so great and I you 
know I'm thinking of how could people 
that are sitting in offices how can they 
do this like if they're red zoning right 
and you're their coach and you know you 
have this toxic colleague or you know a 
boss who just wants to put your head 
underwater all the time you can halt you 
know is there a way do you have a 
protocol for people that may not be able 
to let's say leave their desk and 
exercise and squat or dance and I love 
all of those things but like how do you 
simmer yourself down when you're in an 
external environment 
well you can go into the bathroom stall 
and literally do push do squats I 
wouldn't put your hands on the floor you 
can do squats you can run in place I had 
a client the other day who I see in 
person and we and we stood up and for 45 
seconds we just 
sprinted in place 
you can do that 
um for something like that where it's 
more chronic what I would say is prepare 
yourself before during and after 
so if you know you're going to meet with 
your boss who just puts you in the red 
zone what are you doing beforehand to 
enter into that conversation at a low 
level of distress as possible maybe 
you're going to meditate maybe you're 
going to have a you know a nice cup of 
coffee maybe you're going to go for a 
walk beforehand 
during what can you do to help yourself 
so for example if it's your boss who's 
putting you down but you know your boss 
loves to talk about I don't know their 
new vacation home you can ask the 
question that's going to change his or 
her energy so that things are a little 
more pleasant and then after have a 
carrot waiting for you so if you know 
you have a meeting with your boss and 
you you're afraid it's going to be 
really stressful maybe after you're 
gonna call a friend or you're gonna go 
for a walk or you're gonna take a couple 
minutes and really watch watch like a 
three minute you know comedy clip all of 
that is going to help you so it just 
helps you again get out of the Red Zone 
but then the other thing and this is 
more the long term and this is what I do 
with my coaching clients is is start to 
rewire your brain so that Red Zone 
thinking is not your automatic thinking 
don't think he's your automatic thinking 
um so for example I don't know you make 
a mistake in a presentation Red Zone 
thinking is you know I'm a total failure 
I'm going to lose my job green I'm 
thinking is I'm human I can learn from 
this I'll practice more next time right 
and so so helping really rewire what we 
say to ourselves so that it's more 
helpful because here's the thing it's 
not people it's not circumstances that 
cause us to be in the red zone 
it's our interpretation of it and I'll 
give a quick example I was working I was 
doing my uh postdoctoral training I 
worked at a major Trauma Center 
I was working with a gentleman who was a 
um uh electrician and he had an accident 
where they had to surgically amputate 
both of his arms to save his life and I 
I assumed he would be in the red zone 
right I was gonna go help him deal with 
being depressed and help us and hopeless 
and I went in there and he was one of 
the happiest man I've ever met not 
because he had lost his arms but because 
you stuck a microphone in his brain he 
was saying I'm so grateful that my life 
was saved I almost died and I didn't and 
I know I'm here for a reason and I don't 
know what it is and I can't wait to 
figure it out that is what you would 
hear in his brain as opposed to what 
frankly might be in my brain oh my gosh 
I can't believe this happened you know 
again that that kind of RedZone thinking 
so realizing it's not your boss it's not 
your customer colleague it's not the 
situation it's how you view the 
situation and so you can learn the 
skills again it's just a skill like 
playing golf you can learn the skills of 
how to rewire your brain so that even 
people who tend to be toxic you don't 
have to absorb that energy you don't 
have to purse personalize what they're 
doing and you can maintain control of 
your reaction even though you can't 
control what they are doing or saying oh 
such Sage advice and 
do you have any advice to my singles 
about Red Zone thinking and how they can 
stay out of the Red Zone 
um you know like 
thinking I'm too old there's nobody good 
out there anymore I'm too heavy nobody 
messages me you know or Red Zone moments 
where people ask a shitty question like 
hey why have you never been married why 
are you still single like do you have 
any good tips and I know you've gotta I 
know we we're gonna wrap you soon and 
I'm so grateful for your time but any 
gems you can leave are single listeners 
with I would be grateful for yeah and 
here's the thing about that Red Zone 
thought there's data to support it right 
I haven't found someone so see I am 
right change the focus from being right 
to being happy 
I thought of I haven't met someone yet 
feels much better then I'm never going 
to meet someone and even though there's 
data support that you haven't met anyone 
yet and if you think that way we know I 
mean we're just talking about energy and 
you know what what we think is exactly 
what we attract stop focusing on being 
right A lot of people they say they want 
to be happy but really they they focus 
on being right because then they feel 
like they're in control because if I 
think well maybe he is out there or 
maybe she is out there and then it 
doesn't happen then I'm going to be 
disappointed and that's even worse so 
stop worrying about being right and 
focus on being happy what thoughts what 
thoughts can you buy into right not oh 
he's you know I'm going to meet that 
person this afternoon that may not be 
something that you can buy into but what 
thoughts can you buy into I haven't met 
the right person yet right there are so 
many stories and maybe I'm sure you 
share them with with your clients of 
people who I mean I just went to a 
wedding 
this two weeks ago down in Naples 
Florida a friend of mine 53 years old he 
had never been married 43 year old woman 
she had never been married it was the 
most beautiful thing and I'm telling you 
how did it happen when they were 20 and 
23 and 33 it would not have been as 
beautiful so focusing again what thought 
would feel good that I can buy into one 
two is this a Red Zone thought or a 
green so thought it's a game you can 
play with yourself I'm never going to 
meet anyone is that a Red Zone thought 
Evergreens on that it's obviously a 
redstone thought what might a green zone 
thought be and make it a game to kind of 
come up with these and then the third 
piece of advice as long as I'm shoving 
things on you is what I call BFA best 
friend advice if your best friend came 
to you saying what you were saying to 
yourself you're fat you're ugly you're 
old you're never gonna you're never 
gonna find someone what would your best 
friend say to you you're right you are 
all of those things and let me remind 
you of three other things that you 
forgot to to acknowledge of how horrible 
you are you're fat you're ugly and 
you're losing 
you would never say that to your best 
friend right and so what advice would 
you give them you're an amazing 
individual you just haven't found the 
right person think of that advice that 
you would give to someone you love and 
give it to yourself we speak to 
ourselves 
not only in ways we wouldn't we would we 
wouldn't speak to our best friend we 
speak to ourselves in ways that we 
wouldn't even speak to our enemies right 
and for some reason we give ourselves 
permission to do that stop that what 
goes on up here impacts every single 
thing that goes on in your life and you 
have to change what goes on up here in 
order to whether you want to call it 
manifest you want to call it experience 
you want to call it whatever it is you 
have to change what's going on up here 
to change what's going on out here out 
here is a reflection of what's uh going 
on up here and I'm not talking about 
thinking Pollyanna I'm perfect and 
everyone's going to love me I'm not 
talking that I'm thinking talking about 
rational helpful thinking and starting 
to rewire your brain so that it works 
for instead of against you 
I love this so much the metaphor I was 
thinking of right now is are you do you 
picture yourself are you looking through 
the world through your green zone 
glasses or do you have the red glasses 
on right and if you're feeling bad sad 
angry scared frustrated stressed 
whatever that is the distress that you 
talk about you've got your red glasses 
on put on the green glasses right and be 
better and the beauty of this what I 
love what Elizabeth is doing for me and 
hopefully for you is empowering you to 
know that you have agency in feeling 
happier in any given situation put the 
right glasses on put the right glasses 
on Dr Lombardo Dr E Elizabeth thank you 
so much for being here with us so so so 
grateful and I'm gonna put a link to her 
book get the red zone book people I'm 
going to put a link to her website if 
you want coaching from her she's amazing 
she's all of the things thank you thank 
you for being with us 
thank you 


these days we have such a big problem of 
people feeling lonely and I think it's 
very much connected with depression but 
even in relationships it could be that 
people are together for 10 or 20 years 
and they actually have no idea what's 
going on in each other you know what is 
the inner world of that person and then 
often when they maybe decide to go to 
therapy things come out and they're like 
oh my go I had like no idea that this is 
how you've been feeling or I have no 
idea that this is how your childhood was 
really like and then suddenly like a lot 
of anger just goes away because we 
understand the other person because if 
you can see someone clearly then you're 
going to feel connected but of course 
you know Society is where we talk to 
each other very often people have not 
learned it um and uh I think that this 
is also a big reason why people get 
separated or divorced because if there 
is no connection there's almost you know 
nothing holding you together 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
welcome back guys to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast and 
I'm particularly excited to talk about 
dating 
and weight gain or just weight gain and 
just wait in general and what clued me 
into wanting to talk about this topic 
was listening to one of my favorite 
podcasts called Dr Striker's Insider 
information and the menopause podcast 
I'm not menopausal but she's got so much 
great information on her podcast that I 
thought let's bring 
Dr Striker on to the podcast to talk 
about weight because 
everybody that I work with to some way 
shape or form we all have little 
insecurities with regards to our weight 
it could be five pounds it could be 50 
pounds it could be a hundred fifty 
pounds I've seen everything in my 
practice over the last 13 years so I am 
extremely excited to have Dr Striker who 
I am good friends with so I call her 
Lauren she's a gynecologist a professor 
at Northwestern University she's the 
author of multiple books about women's 
health which are amazing and the host of 
her podcast that I just talked to you 
about so welcome Lauren I am so happy to 
talk to you about weights my favorite 
unfavorite everybody's favorite topic 
it's like not but it's an important 
topic because you're right people obsess 
about it they worry about it and when 
they come to our Clinic it is absolutely 
in the top three of things that women 
want to talk about when they get there 
it's amazing when people sign up for 
coaching at Smart dating academy one of 
the first things we do for them is a 
photo shoot and literally I'm not 
exaggerating if 50 of people that come 
in they're like well I'd really like to 
lose blah blah blah pounds should I work 
on that and I said you know what with 
certain numbers the camera is not going 
to pick that up and if there's way more 
to lose who cares do your photo shoot 
now because you're beautiful and if you 
do get to your goal weight treat 
yourself to another shoot so we talk 
about weight right you think about 
dating and relationships right and we 
think about 
it's just this one piece but health and 
wellness and weight has a direct impact 
on how we feel about ourselves wouldn't 
you say women are self-critical they 
always have been and certainly when you 
think in terms of dating there's two 
things at play here that people worry 
about specifically with weight number 
one is are they going to get the guy you 
know or the you know the partners is 
that person even going to be interested 
in them if they don't have the perfect 
body and then number two is at some 
point if things go well they're gonna 
have to take their clothes off and for a 
lot of women particularly if they have 
not been sexual for a long time it's bad 
enough to think about how all that's 
gonna go but then on top of that when 
you put G here I am you know I'm not 20 
anymore time has not been good to my 
hips and my thighs and now I have to 
take it all off in front of the new guy 
that I actually like so yes it is a big 
issue it's a big issue and I'll tell you 
what to that point we work with men and 
women and men that work with us can be 
just as self-conscious about their 
weight we recently started working with 
the gentleman that dropped 100 pounds 
and was so proud of his progress and he 
looks amazing thing in his photo shoot 
so 
um but I can see that it is you know 
it's all of us at a certain point and 
whether you're 22 or you're 82 listening 
to this we all tend to magnify our flaws 
and wait like Lauren said tends to be in 
the top three and I would wholeheartedly 
concur that that's what we see in our 
practice as well so Laura tell us a 
little bit about your own you know 
people always assumed you grew up the 
skinny kid and you tell a great story in 
your podcast about this and how it 
affected you they always wanted to be 
the skinny kid because actually my 
passion was ballet and when we talk 
about kids who who want to be thin we're 
talking about the kids who are into 
gymnastics and and dance and I was that 
kid but I was never I was a normal 
weight kid I always was but I went 
through an early puberty I was actually 
10. and the minute I went through 
puberty all of a sudden I had hips and I 
mean hips and I thought whoa I can't 
just eat whatever I want so I started to 
be very careful and and I was always 
careful and then I also had a you know 
kind of a bad family history my father 
and a lot of relatives in my family had 
very early heart disease so as as time 
went on my efforts to maintain a normal 
body weight were because yes I was a 
dancer and I had people always said does 
ballet help you lose weight and I said 
absolutely every single week I put on a 
leotard and got in front of a mirror and 
that makes me lose weight it wasn't the 
actual dancing it was the leotard the 
being in front of the mirror having 
being surrounded by other skinny girls 
and having ballet teachers that quite 
frankly gave me a very hard time if 
there was an ounce of extra fat so in 
that sense it wasn't the healthiest 
approach but I was very much aware but 
yeah I've spent a lifetime of being very 
very care careful about what I what I 
eat and I as I talked about in my 
podcast my father uh had his first heart 
attack in his 40s as many others in my 
family have and he subsequently died 
very young at 63 of heart disease so for 
me it wasn't yes vanity no question 
there's a there's a big piece of me 
that's vain that wants 
to leotard the whole thing but as I got 
older and wasn't dancing anymore I love 
clothes I want it to look nice but it 
also became a medical necessity for me 
to to keep my weight down and I cannot 
tell you how many patients when I talk 
to him about weight and they'll look at 
me and say yeah well you know you never 
had to worry about weight because I'm a 
normal weight and when I say to them 
it's just not true I've spent a lifetime 
I know exactly what I eat every day I am 
always conscious of it I love food I 
enjoy food I eat a lot of food I cook 
all the time I entertain all the time so 
it's it's not that food isn't a big part 
of my life I'm just very mindful in 
terms of what I eat portions and 
activities to offset all the blue cheese 
that I really love 
I love that and you know people a lot of 
times make the same assumptions about me 
well you've never had to worry about 
your weight I'm like I've worried about 
my weight since I was nine years old you 
know my dad when I was nine said to me 
I'll give you ten dollars for every 
pound you lose right in third grade and 
I was never fat when I look back at 
pictures I look at and it's like wow so 
you start to wonder where we start to 
have issues told me that did it work did 
you make a lot of money I made no money 
I tried it for two days and I you know 
would do some TV workout shows back in 
the 80s and you know try to eat two 
apples a day and it clearly didn't work 
so weight has oh so always been a thing 
for me since I was a kid and very 
similar to your family history we have 
tremendous history of heart disease in 
our family stroke my grandmother died of 
heart disease my dad's sister died of 
heart disease his heart is scotch taped 
together with six stents of quadruple 
bypass and a pacemaker so I take health 
and wellness very seriously because I 
know I was not gifted the genetic 
lottery in any way shape or form but you 
know I think it's also important that 
you know certainly you and I we are 
concerned about our family history but 
family history aside heart disease is 
the number one killer of women period 
and women worry so much about breast 
cancer and other medical illnesses when 
in fact heart disease is what people 
should be laser focused on and we look 
at risk factors for heart disease and 
certainly you know weight is one of 
those factors so on one hand we say okay 
don't obsess about your weight and I'm 
in agreement with that you don't have to 
be perfect you don't have to be you know 
this this rad thing we're not wearing 
leotards looking in the mirror anymore I 
think no and you know certainly as you 
get up there into the 40s and 50s that 
extra five ten pounds it's gonna happen 
which is why Spanx was invented of 
course but you also have to be realistic 
that it's not okay to be 50 60 70 pounds 
overweight because we we hear all the 
time when people say well I'm overweight 
but my numbers are good I'm healthy and 
they're kidding themselves because their 
numbers might be good right now at that 
moment in time and someone can be 50 or 
60 pounds overweight and they might be 
fit because they work out a lot and 
their numbers are good but statistically 
the reality is is that when you look at 
the impact of weight on not only 
cardiovascular disease but diabetes and 
cancer yeah when we look at the 
different cancers uterine cancer breast 
cancer those are very much tied to 
excess weight no matter how fit you are 
no matter how good your numbers are so 
you know I I think we need to have a 
really good perspective that the idea is 
not to be skinny skinny the idea is to 
be healthy the idea is to eat in a 
healthy way but we also have to maintain 
a healthy weight and just you know not 
let things get out of control if we want 
to live our best life and our longest 
life absolutely and and tell us you know 
just to because I think this is so fun 
you did a fun survey on this so ladies 
this is for you about what men's biggest 
turn-offs and turn-ons are so this was 
part of a bigger survey they were 
actually about 30 or 40 questions my 
biggest bedroom deal breaker survey and 
I surveyed hundreds of men about what 
their biggest bedroom deal breakers were 
and then I surveyed women as well and we 
can talk about some of those it's kind 
of fun but but one of the things that I 
asked they were all multiple choice and 
and one of the questions was you know 
are any of these bedroom deal breakers 
and it was things like you know saggy 
breasts 
lumpy thighs you know big butt and one 
of the choices was none of those are 
deal breakers I'm just happy to be 
invited to the party and that was the 
number one response and I didn't expect 
that you know I thought that these guys 
on an anonymous survey totally Anonymous 
wow see what they were really thinking 
well you know okay let's be honest here 
when I see those ripply thighs it's a 
big turn off not at all not at all and 
when when I looked at the whole survey 
to say okay what is your biggest bedroom 
turn off you want to have Bella you want 
to guess what the biggest bedroom turn 
off was 
um 
it surprised me I'm trying to think of 
what it might be I mean something 
something we said do we make them not 
feel attractive the number one biggest 
bedroom turn off was hygiene 
hygiene so hi jeans 
yes yes you know men if they they I mean 
this was it was an overwhelming response 
that 
she's got to be clean 
so all this effort that's put into your 
hair and what kind of eye shadow and are 
you going to pluck your eyebrows just 
take a shower evidently the number two 
the number two biggest turn off was 
women who during sex remember this 
survey was about biggest bedroom turn 
off so it was about sex it was about 
some yeah it was about sex this number 
two biggest bedroom turn off was women 
who were not responsive meaning if he's 
trying really hard or in his version of 
trying really hard to do something that 
he thinks is going to be pleasurable 
silence is not the appropriate response 
they either want to hear oohs and Oz or 
quite frankly they want some 
communication you know nope you're a 
little too high move down an inch you 
know move to the left need you to be 
there not there you know that's what 
they they want women to participate 
that's really what it comes down to so 
take a shower and participate and you 
are off to a great start even if you 
don't have a perfect body I 
so much because we buy body shame 
ourselves look Lauren said she did it to 
herself since she was a kid I've done it 
with myself from the time I was a kid 
until today right we all do it but 
surveying the opposite gender says they 
just want to be invited to your party 
not to mention this is what Candlelight 
is for everybody looks more attractive 
but you think he's so perfect look at 
his body it's not like he's got a 
six-pack and you know everything is 
perfect so yes it's the idea of set the 
lighting set the mood nice music scented 
candle all of those things are just 
going to make everyone feel more 
confident and more attractive I love 
let's shower together even you know I'm 
just just saying just saying so okay and 
I know this is not about weight but I 
gotta know if those were men's biggest 
turn-offs and turn-ons just give us a 
few from women 
about men oh boy um a lot of them are 
hygiene related 
toenails shower people yeah well cut 
your toenails too evidently women tend 
to get pedicures men do not and 
something about those yellow gnarly 
toenails 
yellow teeth not good and this one oh 
God I hope people don't turn off this 
podcast when I when I say this one but 
streaks on his tidy whities 
what what I know I 
could definitely bedroom turn off for 
the ladies Mama didn't teach you how to 
wipe evidently 
oh dear lord okay yes you asked so okay 
I did so a lot of this nobody said 
potbellies nobody said thighs nobody 
said cellulite nobody said you know my 
double chin so okay that's all great so 
if you're sitting there shaming yourself 
going I need to lose this much weight 
just exhale because there is a lid to 
your cute little pot that is out there 
exactly as you are so now let's talk a 
little bit about weight gain and what I 
found interested Lauren is tell us about 
what you realized about metabolism 
throughout life so as a physician of 
course I've been talking to women about 
this for decades and one of the mantras 
always has been well you know when you 
get to hit your 40s metabolism slows 
down so if you eat the same and you 
exercise the same you're gonna gain 
weight that's just the way it is and 
then a study came out last year that 
complete greatly turn their thinking 
upside down because this was a really 
good study a well done study of an 
enormous number of people tracked over a 
long period of time and what they found 
is in fact metabolism doesn't slow down 
in the 40s it actually stays pretty 
steady from age 20 to 60 and then at 60 
is when metabolism starts to slow but 
not that much not that much just by 
about you know less than one percent a 
year so the reason that people gain 
weight midlife particularly which is the 
group that I'm focused on 
isn't because of slow metabolism there's 
a lot of other factors and the other 
statistic of course that I cite all the 
time is that women are twice as likely 
to gain weight as men so when we talk 
about why people gain weight and it's a 
lot of Lifestyle stuff I mean face if 
the kids are finally out of the house or 
going out to eat you're having wine 
every night with dinner you're not 
exercising and we we all know the 
reasons but men and women both have 
those same Lifestyle Changes yet it's 
the women that tend to gain more weight 
why Lauren why well 
there's a couple of reasons first of all 
and you know again I'm focusing more on 
perimenopausal women and menopausal 
women but that that happens a lot 
earlier than people think a lot of women 
who are in their 40s and they're 
starting to put on some weight and it 
never occurs to them that it may be 
perimenopause because in their heads 
perimenopause and menopause's grandma is 
you know 55 60 65 and in fact any time 
of 40 after 40 is normal and it's very 
typical for women in her early or 
mid-40s to start to go through some of 
these perimenopausal changes and what 
happens it's actually not the lack of 
estrogen that causes the weight gain 
directly it's indirectly because as your 
estrogen levels start to fluctuate 
you don't get a decent night's sleep and 
we know that that's absolutely 
correlated with weight gain we can talk 
about why and we also know that a lot of 
women start to have hot flashes and hot 
flashes also correlate with weight gain 
because of that surge in cortisol that 
you get so when you really do the Deep 
dive into weight gain mid-life yes 
lifestyle yes food choices but if I 
could fix one thing that would help 
everyone lose weight it would be getting 
a good night's sleep because if you 
don't get at least seven hours of good 
sleep good sleep that means that your 
hunger hormones I don't know if you're 
familiar with leptin and graylands but 
these are the hunger hormones and this 
is of any age if you're if you're 
leptins and graylands are not in the 
right range you are going to eat not 
only too much but you're going to eat 
the bad stuff you're going to eat the 
carbs you're going to go for the veggie 
you're not going to go for the veggies 
you're going to go for the pizza you're 
going to go for the french fries 
and 
so we have to look at why you're not 
sleeping because this again is something 
we see in all ages my podcast actually 
um that just came out a couple of weeks 
ago was about sleep and just to sleep 
throughout the ages because even if 
you're not having hot flashes sleep 
apnea restless leg stress pain all of 
those things can get in the way of a 
decent night's sleep and I always tell 
people losing weight is going to be a 
losing battle if you don't get a decent 
night's sleep that's where we start and 
then we start to look at other things 
okay and if this is resonating with you 
you know sleep is a big deal and you 
need the seven hours like she said and 
if you are not sleeping well maybe you 
go and see a sleep specialist if you 
need to or you fix the obvious things 
right you chill yourself out at night 
turn off your phones don't have screen 
time don't talk to the people in your 
family that stress you out late at night 
right don't watch the scary movie right 
before you go to bed don't drink too 
much alcohol you're gonna wake up in the 
middle of night a lot of people do that 
they they go to the wine because it 
helps them sleep right and and it will 
it will help you fall asleep but then 
you will find that you're waking up in 
the middle of the night but you know you 
mentioned the the cell phone all of that 
it goes far beyond the cell phone and 
the screen there was a study that came 
out this year that said any ambient 
light even if it's just a little sliver 
of light under the door 
may keep you from getting that good 
solid seven hours of sleep so I'm a big 
fan of sleep masks I think instead of 
handing out sleeping pill prescriptions 
we should be giving everyone a sleep 
mask a really comfortable good sleep 
mask because that is going to make a 
difference for a lot of people and I'm 
not I don't want to oversimplify you 
give everyone a sleep mask and they're 
going to sleep but those are first steps 
you know first you make sure that you 
are not doing anything to sabotage your 
sleep and then if in spite of doing all 
the the Sleep hygiene sorts of things 
you still can't sleep yes sleep 
specialists are the go-to's most major 
medical centers have sleep specialists 
there are many medical conditions that 
people aren't even thinking about that 
could impact on their sleep and there 
are solutions I always say everything I 
do I'm solution oriented and it's not 
enough just to say that there's an issue 
you have to come up with the solutions 
for that issue 
so I'm that's great with regards to the 
seven or eight hours question asking for 
a friend just kidding 
um I tend to be somewhat of a night owl 
and I now you know as I am getting older 
I try to be in bed by midnight right and 
so now is that seven to eight hours is 
there an Optimum time like should I be 
thinking about doing 10 to 6 or 11 to 7 
instead no it doesn't matter whether you 
start at midnight or you start at 10 or 
quite frankly if you start at two in the 
morning what you want is restorative 
sleep that good REM sleep so ideally you 
don't want to be up and down you want it 
to be seven hours in a row in a perfect 
world and really the most important 
thing quite frankly to simplify this if 
you wake up in the morning and you feel 
well rested you're probably okay it's 
the women that wake up in the morning 
and they feel like oh my God I I have to 
I have to take a nap soon you know how 
soon can I lie down again and and those 
are the women that are not getting good 
night's sleep the other thing is I think 
most people are familiar with sleep 
apnea but when they think of sleep apnea 
they think of people who are very 
overweight and who are snoring which is 
true that is one of the risks those are 
the risk factors but thin people can 
also have sleep apnea and people who 
don't snore can also have sleep apnea 
and one of the things that seems to be 
specifically in women is if you wake up 
in the morning and you have a morning 
headache you need to get screened for 
sleep apnea 
too many women are missed and sleep 
apnea is treatable and we know that when 
we talk about not getting enough sleep 
yes we're talking about weight we're 
focusing about weight today but the lack 
of sleep is associated with so many 
other medical conditions and serious 
conditions so you know getting getting 
enough sleep is no small matter 
okay got it and and so and also you said 
sleep and hot flashes and those can 
happen to you even in your 40s right and 
these are why women gain more weight 
than guys but dudes if you're listening 
to this and you're you know sweating up 
a storm in the middle of the night maybe 
crack a window or turn on the AC that's 
right I mean anytime someone gets 
overheated anytime someone has a half 
wish they are going to get that surge of 
cortisone once in a while is not going 
to make a difference but we know that 
when it's chronically happening when 
it's when it's you know every night 
going on and on it is going to have a 
big impact not only on on weight gain 
but on a lot of other health conditions 
as well you know we know that it's 
associated with with heart disease for 
example with women with bone loss with 
cognitive function you know we talk 
about brain fog and all these other 
lovely perimenopausal things 
um and and when someone comes into I run 
a center for perimenopause and menopause 
at Northwestern and when someone comes 
in and they have all these complaints 
that is basically the first thing we say 
is how are you sleeping and they like 
look at us and say sleep are you kidding 
I never sleep well that's the first 
thing we're going to dress we're going 
to try and find out why and correct that 
because very often when we correct sleep 
everything else falls into place 
cognition mood losing weight libido you 
know there's nothing that's going to 
kill libido like not sleeping because 
you see that pillow when you're not 
thinking about sex all you're thinking 
is about I hope you know he leaves me 
alone so I can get a decent night's 
sleep so you know there's a very long 
list of things that are impacted by a 
lack of sleep 
wow that's amazing and then if you don't 
sleep well you're more likely to grab 
the pizza and have that third glass of 
wine the next day right it's a workout I 
mean not working about that you know if 
you think if you're exhausted and you're 
considering going to the gym or going 
for that long walk no way no way no way 
I got it so tell us about the different 
types of fat that exist what's Good the 
Bad and bad fat or what's bad and what's 
with the damn Muffin Top okay well let's 
talk about Muffin Top first so Muffin 
Top is the redistribution of weight that 
happens when your estrogen levels fall 
now earlier I said that estrogen low 
estrogen does not cause you to gain 
weight however low estrogen does cause a 
redistribution of the weight that you 
have so even if you don't gain a pound 
if you're in that lucky group that gains 
no weight when you go through 
perimenopause and menopause there will 
be a redistribution of your weight so 
that you have more of that midsection 
weight and that's where that Muffin Top 
is from and then if you combine that 
with the fact that most women do gain an 
average of five pounds in the first year 
that they enter menopause 
you are going to suddenly find that you 
cannot get your genes up where you could 
before so you're not imagining it it 
does happen 
some of it I say there's got to be 
little acceptance here that you're you 
know 40 45 year old body is just not 
going to be the same as your 20 year old 
body but having said that certainly 
keeping you you know keeping it a 
healthy weight exercising women who 
choose to take hormone therapy if you 
take estrogen you're not going to get as 
much of that redistribution of weight 
you're not going to get as much of that 
muffin top but but to get back to the 
good weight and bad weight you know from 
a medical perspective and everyone has 
their definition of good weight and bad 
weight for me it's always been my you 
know tush weight but medically speaking 
the bad weight is is belly fat and 
visceral fat when visceral fat is this 
the fat inside that you can't see that's 
the fat that surrounds your organs like 
your heart and 
and that is the fat that is most 
associated with medical problems like 
diabetes and metabolic syndrome and 
heart disease and the women that have 
belly fat are the ones that have the 
predisposition to having visceral fat 
interestingly if you carry your weight 
in your thighs and your butt that 
actually seems to protect against 
diabetes 
um I don't know why but but it does so 
it's the belly fat that's the problem 
fat if you will 
wow and is there a way to know that you 
have visceral fat or just look at your 
stomach and if it's bulging out you 
probably have some visceral fat you 
probably do I mean certainly there's 
there's different Imaging that can be 
done you know MRIs and all that that 
they can identify but it's not the kind 
of thing that a woman is going to know 
just by looking in the mirror 
wow 
um well so we're hormonally challenged 
if we sleep better 
we'll certainly be able to take it off 
tell us about you know what are the tips 
to take off the weight and keep off the 
weight whether it's for vanity whether 
it's for health whether it's some 
combination of both like for most of us 
listening to this give us like things 
that we can do today that can put us on 
a better trajectory and I've got my 
notepad out taking notes wanting these 
tips 
it's actually pretty interesting because 
my podcast my 12 tip podcast which is 12 
tips to take off weight has been one of 
the most popular podcasts 
um up there with uh how to have a better 
orgasm just saying but 
um you know so my tips are basically 
about breaking patterns because when you 
talk about food that you eat or don't 
eat most of the women I work with are 
really smart they know they know that 
yes fruits and vegetables are generally 
better for you than a bag full of 
chocolate chip cookies so people don't 
need to be told what food they should 
eat and shouldn't eat it's really about 
breaking patterns and it's not a lot 
different than Breaking dating patterns 
because I know very often what you are 
telling people is okay so what have you 
been doing for the last 10 years and 
how's that been working for you and I 
basically have the same approach because 
women will come in and say I can't lose 
weight and 
and I've been trying you know for the 
last 10 years and they just they can't 
seem to take it off and so what I try 
and do is break the eating patterns 
break the the way we think about food 
and how we approach food and so I give 
some very very specific tips as an 
example go there give us a specific it's 
interesting because I don't know if you 
like buffets if you go to buffets or if 
you go to restaurants that have buffets 
but I used to be a waitress that's how I 
worked my way through college and 
medical school and I used to work in a 
seafood restaurant here in Chicago and I 
noticed early on that at the beginning 
of the buffet is where they have all the 
inexpensive Foods well the inexpensive 
Foods happen to also be the fattening 
foods you know things like you know 
pasta salad and tuna salad and potatoes 
or gratin and all that kind of stuff and 
and what I realized is what the 
restaurant was banking on is that people 
start at the beginning of the buffet and 
they work their way down so they feel up 
their plates with all the fattening 
stuff 
and then by the time they get to the end 
of the buffet which has not only the 
healthy stuff but the good stuff the 
shrimp the crabs legs the oysters their 
plates were full so they might take one 
shrimp and think oh I'll come back for 
more and then sit down and eat the whole 
plate full of tuna you know macaroni 
fries macaroni and then you know before 
you know it they have eaten an insane 
number of calories so tip one is is 
scope out the whole Buffet before you 
plan your attack you know go to the end 
of the buffet and say okay I am loading 
up on oysters and crab legs with this 
amazing spicy sauce and then maybe I'll 
go back later and have some of that tuna 
salad which why bother you can make that 
at home so 
so that's that's that's tip number one 
is is kind of you know along the same 
lines we all when we get invited to 
someone's home what do we do we say you 
know what can I bring what can I help 
with what can I do and 
I think that that's a lovely thing to do 
of course and you want to help out your 
Hostess but it's also a strategy to make 
sure that there's something that you 
want to eat there because if I go to 
someone's home I will almost always say 
how about if I bring a platter of 
grilled vegetables or how about I make a 
big salad because then I am guaranteed 
that there is going to be something for 
me to eat that's that I like that's good 
but is also going to be healthy so 
that's that's another little tip that's 
a great idea bring what you want to eat 
bring what you want to eat with you 
that's healthy the other thing also is 
when we go out to eat very often we 
order a bottle of wine why do we order a 
bottle of wine because it's less 
expensive we feel like okay if you order 
by the glass it's going to be you know 
whatever it is a glass and that the 
bottle if you add up the glasses is 
always going to be less expensive but 
the reality is if you order a bottle of 
wine you're going to have a highly 
motivated waiter who's going to keep 
pouring and your wine glass will never 
be empty and those calories add up 
really really fast so even if it's a 
little bit more expensive you're better 
off ordering the glass of wine 
finish the glass of wine have a glass of 
Seltzer or something in between and then 
order your second glass of wine and I 
promise you at the end of the night you 
will have two glasses of wine instead of 
three four or five which over a long 
period of time is a lot of calories so 
again it's just it's these are it's all 
behavioral stuff it's strategies it's 
you know and then there's the one that 
you and I discovered together 
um you know the the whole idea we all 
have this 
absolute go-to of if you're going to get 
together with a friend it's let's meet 
for lunch let's meet for dinner let's 
have a drink and I think it was actually 
you that started me down the path of 
let's just go for a walk and because we 
live close to each other and we started 
doing that and it was like this big 
Paradigm Shift of okay this is actually 
better because not only are we out here 
walking for two hours and we can really 
catch up but at the end of that 
we've had our exercise too you know 
we're in here and instead of just you 
know sitting and eating for two hours 
which you will do if you go to a 
restaurant you will you know pick and 
eat and eat and eat long after you're 
full so think in terms of activities 
with a friend go for the manicure go for 
the walk go shopping anything that's not 
surrounding food 
yeah that's great and I love what you 
said and I think I heard this in your 
podcast like even so your first drink 
you know your alcoholic drink goes down 
so easily so fast so fast because you 
come in there and you're thirsty and 
maybe you're a little anxious right so 
instead fill up a glass ideally a pretty 
glass a festive glass I use a wine glass 
with with sparkling water yeah and and 
drink that first before wash your 
cranberry juice delicious and the other 
tip this one was not in my podcast 
um because I couldn't you know you can 
only go on so long I have actually about 
20 or 30 tips but I only did my top 12. 
but another one um is isn't it 
interesting how your so-called friends 
always give you permission to cheat like 
you'll go to someone's home and you're 
thinking okay I am not going to have 
that chocolate cake and then the friend 
will say to you how can you not have a 
piece of cake it's my birthday and then 
they guilt you into having the cake that 
you really didn't want and the analogy I 
always use is if you were allergic to 
shellfish and your friend tried to give 
you a piece of shrimp 
and you said I'm sorry I don't eat 
shrimp I'm allergic to it your friend 
would not say but it's my birthday have 
it anyway you would it just wouldn't 
happen so why is it that we all feel so 
guilty about saying no thank you I'm not 
going to have that and that's you know 
our friends you would think our friends 
would help us when we say I'm not having 
cake right now thank you I'm just going 
to have the fruit and they don't they 
don't support that they're like no no no 
come on it's my birthday like it gives 
them pleasure to have you eat the thing 
that you don't really want to eat do you 
understand that 100 and I feel this way 
even sometimes with my own family 
because food is associated with love and 
so many cultures right and my mom is an 
amazing cook and she will cook the best 
meal all the way to dessert at the end 
and I feel like and maybe this is like 
the recovering pleaser in my my 
personality that if I don't fill my 
plate up with food at least twice it 
doesn't make her feel like her food was 
good enough exactly she and she feels 
like she didn't do her job and oh Bella 
does that mean you didn't like it you 
didn't like it honey I made all of your 
favorites I've been working for for 
three days getting ready for you to come 
and eat your favorite things and how can 
you not speaking of filling plates um 
the other the other tip that I talk 
about is don't use the ginormous plate 
you know Studies have shown that plates 
have gotten bigger in the United States 
I always have to look at Grandma's China 
the player goes oh wow those plates were 
kind of small no those plates were 
normal size now we have these enormous 
platters and you fill them up and I find 
that a smaller plate you will take less 
food our eyes are always bigger than our 
stomach and when you're filling a plate 
you just think it all looks so good and 
I'm going to fill it up take the smaller 
plate fill your smaller plate eat 
everything on the smaller plate and then 
you wait a little bit and if you're 
still hungry you'll go back and you'll 
get some more you know I'm not a fan of 
starving I'm not suggesting anyone 
should ever stop there's no reason to 
ever be hungry there really isn't you 
know we we rarely eat because we're 
really hungry we eat out of board and we 
eat because it tastes good because we 
eat because socially we're someplace 
where everyone is eating and one of the 
things about being a surgeon is when I 
used to do surgeries that were very long 
and any surgeon will tell you you always 
eat before you go into the operating 
room because you don't know how long 
you're going to be there but it wasn't 
unusual for me to go into the operating 
room at seven in the morning and then 
not get out of the operating room until 
two or three in the afternoon 
and people would say don't you get 
hungry and I was like no I didn't even 
think about it because I was so engaged 
because it was so laser focused on what 
I was doing that I didn't have time to 
think about being hungry and so often we 
eat because we don't particularly like 
what we're doing we're looking to take a 
break we're looking to do something 
different so again it's finding 
strategies things to do if you're 
feeling bored if you're feeling like oh 
all I'm thinking about is what I'm gonna 
eat 
think about something else 
100 and I think Lauren you and I have 
talked a little bit about this I mean in 
the last year I've I made every mistake 
cortisol sleep and over the course of 
five years put on the dreaded 20 pounds 
and on my little frame I needed to take 
it off and so doing that what Lauren's 
saying is exactly right sometimes we eat 
for all of these other reasons we eat 
because we're happy we eat because we're 
sad we eat because we're bored we eat 
because we're angry right but we don't 
really eat because we're hungry but 
interestingly even if we are hungry when 
we're so engaged with our brains doing 
something else how many of us haven't 
accidentally skipped a meal I do it all 
the time 
mindfully there's another situation in 
which people tend to not be hungry 
and if you don't know the answer to this 
I'm going to be very disappointed in you 
having sex no when they're in love when 
they're in love oh no it's true you know 
it's true think about the beginning of a 
relationship when you are just 
completely obsessed with this person in 
your life and all you're thinking about 
is being with this person and having sex 
with this person and it turns out that 
there's a biologic reason for that it's 
in the brain it's called the 
melanocortin system which the 
melanocorton system has to do with 
libido and in fact one of the drugs that 
we give to enhance libido 
basically will 
stimulate the melanocortin system but 
the other thing that happens with this 
drug the side effect of this drug is 
nausea and vomiting because the 
melanocortin system also turns off 
hunger and that's because the yin and 
yang of if you're really in love and 
your libido is Sky High you are not 
thinking about food no absolutely not 
you've got and you've got adrenaline 
probably and all sorts of fun yummy 
hormones raging through you right I 
remember in the beginnings of any new 
relationship not thinking about food and 
always dropping pounds because not only 
are you like okay I want to look good 
you know for when the lights go out 
thinking about it you're not it doesn't 
last that's the problem now let's say 
you're in love and it works out and then 
six months later you're still in love 
you're eating you're eating together and 
you've got your feet up on the coffee 
table and you're snacking while you're 
eating but I was going to share one of 
the things as I went on this journey to 
lose weight this year with intermittent 
fasting was just don't snack right and 
it becomes really so much easier and I 
think that I got my mom onto this lately 
she's like I feel so much better because 
she's like breakfast snack lunch snack 
dinner snack like we just graze all day 
long and I told her just try it the 
problem is that you you can make a case 
for that eating small amounts through 
the day is healthy but not having big 
meals and small amounts big meals and 
small big meals and small amounts and 
and one of the things about being a 
doctor actually that was helpful to me 
is you can't have food in patient care 
areas so I've had a lifetime of not only 
being in the operating room or labor and 
delivery or in my office where if you 
want food you literally have to go to 
the break room to get it you can't just 
have drawers of snacks in exam rooms and 
you wouldn't want to you know but so 
there's not a lot of snacking that goes 
on during the day if you're working in a 
doctor's office or there shouldn't be 
because there shouldn't be any food in 
patient care areas wow that's amazing so 
put your snacks way far away from you 
like at the other side of the hospital 
so you can't get to them right you know 
but the other thing also is as many 
Studies have shown that if you have 
someone keep a food diary when they are 
trying to lose weight they will lose 
weight just because of the increased 
awareness of what they're eating they're 
thinking about it so I will tell someone 
don't change anything I just want you to 
keep a food diary for the next two weeks 
that every single thing you put in your 
mouth even if it is one potato chip I 
want you to write it down on this log 
and they have apps now of course where 
you can do that and and every single 
study has shown that if you're honest 
and you truly do write down every single 
thing you put in your mouth you will be 
eating less within a at the end of the 
week then at the beginning of the week 
because it makes you think about it it's 
the Mindless eating you start to say do 
I really need to put this potato chip in 
my mouth am I really hungry and if I put 
one potato chip in my life in my mouth 
you know that that's not going to be the 
last one you know that you're going to 
follow that with you know a number of 
other potato chips so 
um part of it is is is being mindful is 
and that's the only look about noon you 
know that that popular diet I mean 
that's what it is it's behavioral stuff 
and and the book that I recommend in the 
diet I recommend is six factors to fit 
which is by an expert uh Chicago expert 
Bob Kushner and and yes obviously talks 
about that you shouldn't be eating the 
fried foods and healthier foods but it's 
also really about being mindful of these 
behaviors in these patterns you don't 
have to have the donut with your coffee 
every morning you can just have the 
coffee 
and maybe some yogurt and fruit and have 
some eggs or something something that is 
going to fill you up so that you're not 
you know people they skip breakfast and 
then at 10 30 they are so hungry that 
they will eat something that is probably 
not what they really want to be eating 
and I'm a breakfast eater I have coffee 
I'm a big coffee drinker but in the 
morning I will have 
um you know some egg whites and 
vegetables I'm very big on salsa I pour 
hot sauce I like spicy stuff so I pour 
salsa all over everything because it's 
delicious and there's not a lot of 
calories but the eggs will fill me up 
that I'm putting the salsa on and I've 
kind of alternate that with Greek yogurt 
and fresh fruit and it's good you know 
it's not I'm not depriving myself like I 
said earlier I like food I cook all the 
time 
but I am lucky because I happen to like 
things that are healthy I love grilled 
fish with all kinds of interesting 
sauces on it and I you know love grilled 
vegetables so part of it is is having 
the fun of discovering foods that maybe 
were not on your meal plan that you 
actually might like so I can tell you 
personally because I am friends with 
Lauren that number one she is an 
excellent cook and I have had her 
grilled 
chickens and grilled Salmons I'm I'm a 
slow adopter to eating Seafood but I'm 
getting way better at it now and her 
grilled vegetables and I can also last 
time we went out to dinner you ordered 
fish I was a bored I know my mom never 
cooked fish for us growing up because my 
dad didn't like the smell of it so my 
brother and I are really kind of amateur 
Seafood eaters but 
um the other thing that you might not 
know about Lauren is where she practices 
medicine if I'm not mistaken my friend 
there is a huge donut shop right in the 
entry line hobby of where you work at 
Northwestern Hospital oh it's much worse 
than that there's not only a stand donut 
in the lobby in the building in the 
lobby the actual building I passed it 
every day there's a Mandy bees which is 
a bakery Sweet Mandy beans oh my gosh 
this is my Chicago Bakery but you know 
it is like amazing desserts and frosting 
and then there's another donut shop 
about half a block away it's like we are 
in donut Central I once said to someone 
is this like the cardiovascular doctors 
trying to get more patients and just you 
know investing in donut shops all over 
the hospital it is a weird thing but yes 
it is in my building and 
um I actually don't even think about it 
quite honestly I walk right past it 
every day I've never gone in I just it's 
not on my radar I don't go through the 
should I or shouldn't I because I never 
have but I think part of that also is by 
the time I get to work I've had 
breakfast I think it would be different 
if I walked in the door starving yeah 
and I smelled those donuts and I thought 
oh but because I walk on the door and 
I'm truly not hungry yeah I don't think 
about it I love that and for those of 
you who might be you know you get hungry 
in the day and you might want to stop 
off and pick up the McDonald's or the 
Stan's Donuts or the Sweet Mandy B's 
something I've taken to in this last 
year is I keep a bag of salted almonds 
in my purse for those desperate moments 
and always some sparkling water so I'll 
try the sparkling water first wait 15 
minutes if that doesn't work then The 
Salted almonds are coming and I know 
don't judge it's salted almonds should I 
be eating The Salted almonds probably 
plain but you know what it just feels a 
little more like you're having a whole 
bag of them no like five five is five is 
fine you know pretty much anything in 
moderation 
is good for you so yeah I mean it's 
about portion control you know when you 
look at something that is uniquely 
American we eat enormous portions and if 
you spend any time in other countries 
whether it's South America or Europe you 
will find when you go to a restaurant 
that the portions are going to be 
dramatically smaller 
and I'm never hungry you're never and 
you don't gain weight no when we're when 
we eat more slowly the portions are 
smaller it's the the portion control is 
a huge issue because a lot of people 
have this idea while I'm eating healthy 
I don't know why I keep gaining weight 
and it's because if you eat enough of 
anything even if it is healthy 
I mean calories in calories out we know 
that's the case right right right 
exactly I love going to Italy and having 
two gelatos and wine and for some reason 
it's like my magical place on Earth you 
don't gain weight there so I recommend 
if you're thinking about a trip to Italy 
go there because you just won't gain 
weight there's something but there's 
another reason you don't gain weight in 
Italy other than that you know they have 
good portions and you're walking walking 
walking walking but you're not eating 
processed foods yes it's the processed 
foods are the devil and when you are in 
Italy although I think they do have some 
of these chain restaurants popping up 
but in general you are not eating 
processed foods and if it's a food that 
your grandmother would not have served 
you probably shouldn't be eating it now 
we have to say great grandmother because 
processed foods have been around for for 
a long time but but that's a big problem 
and you do not see it in Europe and in 
fact as more of these fast food 
restaurants and processed foods are 
getting into the cultures of these other 
countries we nursing obesity in other 
countries as well in places where it 
used to not exist 
right so try to eat Whole Foods as much 
as you can right like if you know it eat 
what you know God grew on Earth 
essentially one of the problems also and 
you know and just trying to be realistic 
about this is we know that there are a 
lot of food deserts and particularly we 
are lucky you and I to live in an area 
where there's a lot of grocery stores I 
think I'm in walking distance of three 
really good grocery stores and farm 
stands we have a farmer's market a 
couple times a week many many people 
live in areas where truly it does not 
exist they are surrounded by liquor 
stores they're surrounded by fast food 
stores and especially for women who are 
busy and are working and are taking care 
of a family they do not have the time I 
mean my heart goes out to them you can 
have all the good intentions in the 
world they do not have the time to 
travel to a grocery store 30 or 40 
minutes away to get that food to take 
home to make for themselves and for 
their families so they start to rely on 
the fast food which is there and 
inexpensive and it does the job but 
that's one of the reasons you know why 
we have a lot of problems with with 
Weight Control in our country 
yeah no I'm I'm a mom of two teenagers 
all over the place and all the time so I 
can certainly sympathize with just being 
busy and someone's hungry and someone's 
hungry an hour later and then the first 
one's hungry again two hours later so 
your car's stopping in all sorts of 
places well Lauren is there any other 
you know last things that you want to 
tell us about weights and how we can you 
know 
get rid of it be healthy I I think that 
the word of caution that I would give 
everybody is there's so many fad diets 
out there they're nothing but grapefruit 
diet and they eat you know things that 
only start with the letter L diet and 
all this and and the problem with these 
diets is that they're not sustainable 
and when you go on a diet you're not 
going on a diet that I'm going to go on 
a diet and lose the weight and go off 
the diet because you'll gain the weight 
right back I think in terms of changing 
the way you eat changing the way you 
think about food and again you should 
never starve yourself there's no reason 
to be hungry it's about enjoying food 
and celebrating food with the people you 
love and the people you want to be with 
or cooking for yourself it doesn't 
matter I you know food should be a 
positive thing not a negative thing 
where there's too much self-loathing 
there's too much self-criticism let's 
think in terms of eating healthy taking 
good care of our bodies which in turn 
will take care of our our minds our 
confidence our energy levels it all 
comes together 
well this was amazing thank you so much 
for sharing your gems with us and I know 
we will have you back and soon 
anytime and then we'll talk more about 
those bedroom deal breakers right oh my 
God and what how to how to have a better 
orgasm stay tuned ladies and gentlemen 
you know 
I have lots of tips for that oh all 
right we're definitely going to have you 
back soon thank you Lauren thank you 


spiritual medium Erica Gabriel let's 
jump right into this because a lot of 
this is new to me and ladies and 
gentlemen get your seat belts on because 
I'm sure today is gonna be a ride 
because this woman is awesome and filled 
with wisdom that we can both see and we 
don't see so what are the three things 
in the spirit world that you most often 
see that are blocking people from live 
and it's so funny when you say three and 
and like I'm like yes we discussed three 
and now I'm like oh my gosh I had ten 
but anyway okay that's fine let's go 
there girl we're all we are very 
flexible 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love Colin I am so 
happy to see your face and to talk to 
you today tell us just give us some 
context I mean you're amazing you've had 
this illustrious career tell us how a 
kid from Michigan got to where you are 
today well Bella thanks for having me 
here and uh I adore you I just have to 
say uh you know I kind of consider you 
as another sister I've got a great older 
sister and and you know we've known each 
other now for probably two years now I 
would want to say um and I just uh I 
look up to you you inspire me I love 
what you're doing and um thanks for 
having me here uh oh I'm so happy to 
have you here and you're such a 
spectacular human being and just full of 
inspiration and um and love and 
generosity and that's why I wanted to 
have you here to talk to all of us about 
you how you got to where you are and 
what men like you amazing successful 
cool Soulful people are looking for in 
women for real so tell us man this is 
GNA be an interesting conversation it 
sure is sleeves are up roll your sleeves 
up 
yeah um well uh so yes I I have been a 
actor in a bunch of different movies and 
TV shows over the past 20 years grew up 
in the south suburbs of Chicago this was 
not something that I thought was G to be 
in the realm of the possibility of of 
what my life was going to be all about I 
went to the University of Iowa was 
planning on going to medical school my 
father was a physician uh but there was 
something just inside you know I think 
we all had that that deeper inner 
feeling of if something is right or not 
whether that's career or relationship 
and no matter how much we try to make 
things work because it may look good on 
paper inside I think a lot of the times 
we have the tendency to ignore our inner 
feelings about something and something 
just didn't I mean the idea of being 
becoming a doctor was it I was like well 
this would be great I I love the idea of 
helping people and watching my dad have 
a profound impact on on people's lives 
was awesome I love that so I love the 
making an impact on people's lives part 
of it but the cutting people open and 
blood and all that stuff part of it I 
was like yeah I don't know if this is 
really what I want to do but I just I I 
was I was like you know 18 years old 
you're like what I I haven't seen what's 
really out there and to expect kids to 
make these lifelong decisions at 18 19 
years old it's like I was like is there 
something wrong with me that I don't I 
haven't figured this out yet and uh so I 
just kind of went along the the path of 
of college and I think I'm at the time I 
didn't realize this but I'm a firm 
believer in the Law of Attraction 
manifestation but at the time you know I 
wasn't really aware of this kind of 
stuff and I heard on the radio about 
this Model Talent search come to the 
model search America you can travel the 
world and whatnot and so I went to it 
and I graduated college months later I 
was in Milan Italy doing Runway shows 
for Georgio Armani and for Johnny 
Versace and having dinners with Elton 
John 
and the Spice Girls and I was like at 23 
years old I was like yeah baby this is 
the high life I was like this is amazing 
but I always knew that it wasn't going 
to last you know like the career of a 
male model I mean if you've seen the 
movie Zoolander it's like it's kind of 
ridiculous you know um and I was kind of 
embarrassed saying to people what I did 
well what do you do I'm a model like 
what do you mean model like fashion 
fashion model like it's just kind of 
weird you know so anyway I found my I 
was I ended up in New York City and I 
grew up for the most part an introvert 
you know getting up in front of people 
and speaking and and all that sort of 
stuff it just was not I was just I have 
anxiety when I would get up in front of 
people around groups of people so um it 
just wasn't something that I I necess 
necessarily gravitated towards but when 
I was in New York City I and the 
encouragement of my my modeling agent um 
said why don't you try an acting class 
because you know there's a lot of TV 
commercials that you can go on and I was 
like all right you know in New York and 
what's great about New York City is 
there's so much diversity uh I think a 
lot a lot of the times we can get stuck 
in our little bubbles of our friends and 
our work and I think it's so important 
to just get out of that environment and 
just expose yourself to new ideas new 
cultures new people and and that's 
exactly what I did I was like you know 
what this is not something that is in my 
comfort zone but let me just see what 
this is like and I jumped into this 
acting class and for the first time in 
my life I felt like there was a safe 
space to really fully 
Express who I am not only as a a man but 
as a person and and as in acting class 
you do a lot of work on creating these 
characters to bring them to life to the 
screen into the TV you know to TV show 
and so you analyze a lot of the 
characters so like what's your 
motivation what's your core values 
system uh what's your intention what's 
your objective in this scene to get the 
girl or to rob the bank or to whatever 
it was and this is what is really great 
about acting class and what I write 
about in my my book is that I think 
think everyone could benefit from these 
types of principles and and insights 
from acting class in the sense of 
creating more specificity in your life 
really getting clear about what you want 
from your relationships from your job 
from your your life in general and in 
acting class you've got to get 
vulnerable you've gota you're 
essentially metaphorically naked in 
front of all these people expressing 
your deepest fears and desires and it 
was so scary but freeing at the same 
time and I was like man this is like I 
after doing scenes I would walk out of 
acting class and I would just feel so 
alive and so like wow this is like we 
people can do this for a living like 
this is amazing so I just per I said you 
know what let me just I I love this I'm 
gonna I'm gonna do this and I was living 
across the street from the World Trade 
Center at the time and I was living a 
wind that hold 911 you know event all 
the events of that day happened and I 
lost my apartment that day my windows 
got blown in and essentially was was 
homeless and at that point I was like 
you know what acting is something I 
really care about where do you go to 
pursue acting Hollywood so I just 
basically grabbed my suitcase went out 
to Hollywood pounded the P pavement for 
like three years and it was not easy you 
know I think the most important things 
in life you get tested on your resolve 
you get tested on how badly you really 
want something and if you give up it 
just means that you know either it 
wasn't the right thing or you weren't 
necessarily you didn't have the support 
um but this is what I talk about too if 
you really truly care about something 
and are passionate about it whether 
that's a career or having a 
relationship it does require work it 
does require Mastery in really enjoying 
um what it is that you want and the 
great part about that is that when you 
do get it you know you deserved it 
because you worked hard for it and I 
think when things are given to us too 
easily or if we get a job that's too 
easy or get a you know find a 
relationship that you just kind of fall 
into and didn't have to really work on 
yourself or understand how to 
communicate better in 
relationships I I think there's an 
element of not appreciating it as much 
or maybe you're not willing to work hard 
to maintain it so to speak um and so 
I've just again learned a lot of these 
really amazing principles for my journey 
of being an actor and uh fast forward 
after doing all these amazing TV shows 
and movies tell us some of the shows and 
the movies because everybody I started 
out on all my children as Erica K's 
transplanted un aborted fetus son um try 
to figure that one out uh I was there 
for three years and then I did uh the 
reboot of Melrose Place and then this 
little movie called Something Borrowed 
with Kate Hudson small tiny little movie 
small little movie yeah small movie Kate 
Hudson don't know Kate Hudson yeah yeah 
uh which was incredible and you know and 
I found myself on these stages you 
working with Kate and John and Jenny 
Goodwin and showing up every day and 
literally pinching myself and I'm like 
holy I am literally about to kiss 
Kate Hudson this is like amazing amazing 
yeah yeah 
and so this is where the mindset stuff 
comes into play and this is what I think 
what's great about what you teach and 
coach on is in order for us to be able 
to really fully inhabit and own the 
space that we're in whether that's on a 
movie set or in our 
relationships it requires some attention 
to some of the mindset stuff because 
literally walking on set some of those 
that voice in our head can crop up and I 
would find that little voice saying what 
are you doing 
here these are A-list actors like like 
do you really deserve being here or like 
after I booked the audition working so 
hard then it was like oh now I got 
to do the job and what if I get fired 
and and our brains can go to the 
negative so easily yeah and it really 
requires some 
discipline in shifting our Focus to 
what's 
possible as far as what's possible in 
the realm of 
abundance instead of what's possible in 
the realm 
of like the negative so it this has been 
my journey of sh really truly creating 
the discipline and the mindset to keep 
shifting my my mindset to what's 
possible to abundance to manifestation 
and I heard something really interesting 
last week in terms of discipline 
and I would encourage everyone out there 
who 
thinks that the most important things in 
life require discipline because with 
discipline there's an element of like I 
gotta work I got yeah I gotta put it in 
my calendar and and uh this woman that 
I'm really good friends with and she's 
amazing um 
she she said something along the lines 
of if we just replace the word 
discipline with the word 
devotion there's an element more 
of I can do that there's some there's 
like some love and some energy and some 
fun and play with devotion rather than 
discipline whether that's waking up at 
six o'clock in the morning to go to the 
gym or doing some of the things that we 
don't necessarily want to do in a 
relationship or you know the things that 
require us to uh to create the abundance 
and and the things that that we want to 
enjoy in life so just reminding and 
being aware of like words like that can 
really help shift our Focus From the 
negative to the positive it's so so true 
I mean working as a dating coach and 
owning Smart dating Academy for the last 
12 years I can tell you that when people 
are in the swamp lands of dating right 
they might be really excited but a 
couple months in they're like man this 
is a slog I hate this this feels like 
human eBay whatever it is and I'll tell 
them I need you to change your words 
instead of I have to date I get to 
date and changing anything from I have 
to to I get to makes it a 
privilege makes it something positive I 
get to go on this date I get to record 
this podcast I get to go to work I get 
to go to the gym because my body is able 
and suddenly you take that negativity 
out of your head and it using PA to get 
put you in that space of gratitude and 
abundance immediately and I love 
discipline to devotion and I want you 
dear listener to think about the 
devotion that you have to creating a 
healthy happy relationship and the 
Devotion to yourself to love yourself 
and do the things that you really want 
to do and like Colin's saying listen to 
that voice inside of yourself that just 
goes hey this is amazing this lights my 
fire this is what I'm passionate about 
and listening to those things because at 
the end of the day those are the things 
and those are the moments that your life 
is going to shift those are what I call 
inflection points so Stop drowning it 
out in the I have to this sucks I hate 
this and get to I get to do this and 
watch how your life is going to change 
and so Colin is as far as I know at this 
point I know you've gots on your plate 
you know you're um you know you could be 
maybe a very eligible bachelor in 
Chicago and nationwide at this point but 
maybe not I don't know your relationship 
status so I see you kind of looking at 
me like oh wow are we going to go here 
yeah we're going to go here so you can 
choose to plead the fifth on that if you 
would like to um or yeah no I mean this 
is what I I love about you Bella is that 
you uh you don't pull any punches and I 
mean this this is how I am I mean I I 
love authentic real direct conversation 
and I feel like one of the reasons um 
why I 
uh am still single is because I have I I 
guess I've been mostly on this journey 
my my focus and my priorities have been 
pursuing 
acting 
and uh as a 
man and I I would I would probably say 
with a fair degree of certainty that for 
men in order for us to be able to invite 
a woman into our lives we have to feel 
secure pure in who we are and as I think 
the the whole conversation of of 
providing is a big one and not that I 
think women expect men to provide for 
them and take care of them like the 
traditional sense of maybe you know 100 
years ago um but more so in the sense of 
just as a a man we are 
prideful we want to succeed deep down I 
feel like we are little boys still who 
just want to do good by our you know our 
parents or our friends or whatever we we 
want to succeed so any opportunities 
where women can present an opportunity 
for a man to be successful I think that 
is a 
smart insights that I could offer to 
women where um you know I learned a lot 
from just reading about Dr John Gray Men 
Are from Mars Women Are from Venus and 
he talks about how like his um in their 
house they had his wife they have a a 
fireplace that is a wood fireplace it's 
not a gas fireplace because he said my 
wife loves it when I go out to the 
backyard haul the log even though the 
logs are chopped already like he's not 
like he's going down and chopping trees 
the fact that he physically goes out 
there and carries the logs into the 
garage and then builds the fire and then 
you know does the physical act of 
lighting it there's like there's a 
ritual to those kinds of things that I 
think tap into our subconscious psyche 
as men and women that I feel like is 
missing in today's relationships and uh 
it's the the sense of a making a woman 
feel safe and in the sense of even just 
doing these physical acts like that 
instead of going over to the fireplace 
and just turning a switch and then the 
gas fireplace turns on you know there's 
really no effort in that so he said his 
wife says honey I just love how like you 
go out there and you H you haul these 
heavy logs in from the outside and how 
you make me a beautiful fireplace you're 
amazing like those are the things that I 
think if couples can create more of 
those types of um moments in a 
relationship that is what really helps 
keep relationships together and keeps 
the attraction going positive 
interactions are so key and I'm so glad 
you said that because I think if we tap 
into the psyche of women women have what 
we call more of this diffuse awareness 
right women you guys were the hunters we 
were the gatherers 200,000 years ago and 
we had to manage the fields and the kids 
and keeping relationships up with other 
women and who's sick and who's well and 
where are the men anyway and so we 
contend to look for just because we're 
wired this way to be attentive to 10 
different things and keep the plates 
spinning to things that aren't wrong 
because there are so many plates up in 
the air that are spinning right so you 
don't want one to fall on break so 
always like oh that's not good that's 
not good so this is why women can tend 
to see more readily what's wrong and 
call out what's wrong so we can often 
get reputations is don't be a nag don't 
be so critical and so it comes from a 
good place is what I tell women and tell 
men about the women that they're with 
but understanding why she might do that 
right because this is just a different 
Consciousness that women have but it's 
antithetical to what men want so I tell 
women all the time look for what's good 
and tell them what's good three times a 
day acknowledge the good I know you're 
wired to acknowledge what's not good 
there's a hole in the wall the cabinet's 
Crooked the lawn's too long whatever it 
is but look for wow you know what you 
changed the light bulb over the sink and 
the kitchen looks so much brighter thank 
you right and suddenly the other stuff 
that you asked for will get done because 
you have padded him on the back they're 
like the boys on the playground say you 
did a good job at this and you'll get 
more yeah and just like just even saying 
than you you're amazing you're amazing 
that was 
awesome yeah just those little things 
make make a big difference um and and 
then I guess to piggyback on that I 
think one of the reasons why I still I 
am single is because um my priority has 
been my career and then I have also felt 
like I needed to do some work on myself 
in order for me to feel comfortable and 
confident in with me before I felt like 
I could show 
up as a uh you know a a the kind of 
partner that I would want to be with and 
I feel like when I was earlier in my 20s 
know the physical attraction we can get 
attracted to people and then you're 
together and you don't really have the 
tools or the communication strategies in 
order to really understand or 
communicate your feelings and that sort 
of thing and um I you know just from 
watching my parents and other people 
there you know relationships and the 
breakdowns and communication and the 
struggles and uh I I guess I've uh my 
mom said I didn't start speaking until I 
was four years old but she said then 
once you started speaking you just 
started speaking in like full sentence 
so I guess I've always been like maybe a 
a more analytical person with regards to 
things inad of you know I do jump into 
certain things but when it comes to 
relationships and marriage in particular 
because that to me is is sacred and and 
I you know I I want obviously I want to 
have just not there's any guarantees but 
I don't want to get married three or 
four times I don't want to just say well 
let's see let's try this starter 
marriage you know see how this goes like 
well let's see how it goes like no I not 
so much no not so much and I uh I have 
realized there were certain parts of me 
that just were not maybe ready to commit 
and I have a very adventurous spirit so 
I love to travel and I love to do all 
that sort of thing um and now I'm in a 
place in my life where I feel like I've 
done a lot of the things that I've 
wanted to do and accomplish and now I I 
feel like I'm in a place now where I'm 
more ready to invite someone into my 
life because I have a really good sense 
of who I am I know my faults I know my 
desires I know my little bit of what's 
crazy about me and there's a really 
great um uh speaker coach named elain de 
Bon I love him yeah he's great you guys 
should definitely check out his stuff 
but what I really liked about what he 
said was he said the best thing you 
could probably do on a a first date is 
say well this is my brand of crazy 
what's yours and so you just get out 
there like because I think we we hide 
things and we pretend that we put our 
best versions of ourselves out there and 
then over time you know it causes a lot 
of of we put so much pressure on 
ourselves to be the best version of 
ourselves I mean just scroll through 
Instagram and it's just like the best 
versions of you know everything um until 
you know some I don't know some people 
do put stuff on there that's like well 
this is really who I am so there's 
there's that but I think for the most 
part 
um the more authentic that we can be the 
more open we can be about just sharing 
what our deficiencies are and just 
having those kinds of conversations um I 
think are really important in 
relationships yeah I think that 
everybody's got their brand of crazy and 
I remember you know doing Steve Harvey's 
shows for many seasons Steve used to say 
something funny he's like you know in 
the beginning you're dating that 
person's representative you ain't dating 
the real person right so the 
representative at a certain Point goes 
away and then you start to get to the 
nitty-gritty and the balance in dating 
is being able to reveal your certain 
brand of crazy without seeming truly 
crazy right it's about you know it's 
about vulnerability but vulnerability in 
its true sense what bernee Brown says 
that I think so many people 
misunderstand is vulnerabilities without 
boundaries is just 
oversharing yes thank you yeah and and 
so understanding how to kind of time the 
seeds that come out time the little 
pellets that come out about your certain 
brand of crazy it's like date one is 
good date three we can go here date five 
then we can start to really say okay is 
this a match or isn't it and this this 
question is something that just came to 
mind as you talked about you're doing so 
much work on yourself and you kind of 
know who you are and you're working on 
your career and and all of this great 
stuff and one of the questions I get 
from women a lot is is it going to be 
intimidating to a guy that you know I'm 
the senior vice president at a Fortune 
100 company and is what I do 
intimidating is somebody going to be mad 
because maybe I out earn them or my 
position is really high I mean do you 
have any thoughts for women on that um 
you know just in general like does it 
bother you to any any extent about what 
a woman does or doesn't do for her 
career I'm attracted to women who are in 
those roles of leadership and who uh who 
are not afraid to go out there and make 
their Mark to um you know and that 
doesn't mean you have to be the CEO of a 
company um I I 
mean Anyone who puts themselves out 
there 
and does the things that are not easy 
that are are difficult um I find that 
inspiring and I I I am attracted to 
women who do it with Grace and with 
vulnerability where they do it and then 
at the end of the day we can share a 
glass of wine and and they like man it's 
such a shitty day today this whatever D 
D but then like there's a sense of humor 
to it because like you said earlier 
about what ber Brown said I think it's 
really important not to use a 
relationship as a Dumping Ground for 
everything that you're experiencing in 
your day I think it's important to have 
those boundaries where your relationship 
is a place um Ela de Debon describes it 
as essentially looking at relationship 
as an opportunity as almost like a uh a 
learning incubator where you go there 
it's your opportunity to engage with 
someone who cares about you and support 
you but to learn from each other and um 
and I think 
uh when women are in those positions of 
boss babess I guess you could call it 
that absolutely I think it's only 
intimidating to a she's only 
intimidating to a man when a man is not 
in his full manliness and I think it's 
and I guess this is where this is why 
I'm still single is that with the ups 
and downs of acting there's a lot of 
unpredictability both where I'm going to 
be geographically financial and so if 
I'm not feeling stable how can I invite 
a woman into my life and show up in that 
relationship knowing that a Rel 
relationship requires commitment it 
requires um transparency it requires all 
this stuff and if she says well hey you 
know let's go to this location in in a 
month from now and I'm like well that 
sounds like a great idea but if I get an 
acting job I may have to be I may not be 
able to do that and I I totally respect 
that some people just don't want to 
engage in in that kind of Lifestyle but 
um I would say when a man is in his in 
his power when he's a when he's feeling 
good about himself and a lot of that has 
to do we identify a lot of our 
self-identity with our 
career good or bad um if we're not 
feeling good about where we are at in 
our career it's hard for us to then get 
out of our cave to show up for a woman 
the way that we really want to or maybe 
we haven't done enough work on 
ourselves so that when we are around 
those powerful women we may be attracted 
to them but we also get 
intimidated where then we will try 
to undercut their you know their like 
pull the rug out from underneath them 
because you have then this power play of 
if a woman is is doing it things that 
are in her power it can it can sometimes 
make a man feel inferior or emasculated 
and then at that point they're going to 
either resort to attacking or 
criticizing or not recognizing you for 
your achievements or they're just going 
to retreat and so you know I think it's 
uh it's it's such a it that's what's so 
amazing about relationships and life in 
general but it's also can be really 
frustrating 
because there's so many different little 
components that that uh are required in 
order for a relationship to work and and 
a lot of times people just think well 
this doesn't feel right so it's not the 
right relationship when really if you 
just maybe were to talk about it a 
little more and just share if men were 
able to say you know what you're amazing 
but sometimes when I'm around you I feel 
that um that where I'm at in my life I'm 
just not feeling the best about where 
I'm at and so don't think that I'm not I 
don't like you I don't yeah not 
attracted to you but sometimes I need to 
retreat to be able to work on myself to 
be able to be comfortable and be your 
match and I think the problem with that 
is men 
nowadays it's so much easier just 
to go to work come home play video games 
games watch 
football and yeah and not work on 
ourselves um but I'm seeing a lot more 
of these kind of coaching groups and 
men's groups where men and I've been a 
part of some of these men's groups where 
you know we come together and we can 
actually be vulnerable and still be in 
our masculine and uh I I think the last 
little bit of insight that I want to 
share here is that it's also important 
though that for women when men are doing 
manly things we need to go back into our 
cave 
to just be back in our manliness for us 
to be able to then come back out of our 
cave to be the man that we want to be 
for you and if we're retreating and 
watching football or if we're doing our 
manly stuff you got to let us do that 
stuff without making us feel bad about 
it like oh you're watching football 
again like you never pay any attention 
to me it's like well go do your thing 
and Men We there's a little Hunter 
mentality inside of here if you if you 
just like kind of disappear and allow 
opportunities for us to chase you and so 
that you're not chasing us just a little 
bit and and people say well I don't want 
to play games I don't I'm tired I don't 
I want to be in a relationship it's not 
a game it's not a game it's not a game 
right it's not just it's understanding 
these little dynamics of just who we are 
physiologically and and bi ically and 
and 
psychologically that when you start to 
learn about this stuff and just start 
reading some books about this stuff um 
David Dada I think that's how he 
pronounced his name there's a book 
called The Way of the superior man when 
I read that I was like oh my God boom 
like I my I was like this is why I you 
know like so and so in high school 
didn't want to date me and like because 
I was like I was too nice like men can 
be too nice sometimes and we show up 
like oh hi like do would you like this 
or did you like this and we think that's 
what a woman wants and women are like 
and that's why women tend to go for the 
bad guy because the bad guy is just like 
in his masculine and just doesn't it's 
not that they don't care it's just that 
they're not making the woman the full 
priority and it's important that we both 
men and women have your own thing that 
you're not making each other the 
priority it's you've got your life 
you've got your career you've got your 
hobbies and your your goals and your 
dreams but they're yours and you're not 
relying on the other person for your 
happiness or for validation 
or that's your stuff like you got to 
handle that on your own you you 
can't expect your partner to like tell 
you all this stuff now again there's 
those those moments of connection and 
communication that are that are 
important that keep the fire burning 
where you're amazing you're but it's not 
it's not like you're not dependent on it 
for your selfworth so to speak 100% And 
I think that you know it's one of the 
things when you and I were were prepping 
about you know kind of the the five 
things that you find most attractive in 
women now we're going to go outside 
physical attraction everybody knows 
that's the 
instantaneous okay I'd like to get to 
know you better okay that's not rocket 
science you know lust is Nature's Way of 
tricking us into attachment right so now 
if you find someone physically desirable 
I think one of the things that you did 
say on this list was exactly that like 
having your own things that you're 
passionate about having your own life 
the same way where you just said in high 
school you were like oh my god do you 
want this or do you want that and you 
weren't fully in your masculinity kind 
of with your own life it doesn't mean 
I'm an I'm going to treat you 
badly but it means like I've got my own 
stuff going on do you want to meet up at 
this time no okay that's fine let me 
know when you can move on and do the 
next thing and for women it's the same 
thing have your own lives have your own 
passions because that energy is 
infectious and it makes you more 
interesting when people ask my husband 
like Andy what do you think about this 
business that Bella started and she's 
doing all these things he's like I think 
it's amazing and now and I can tell you 
of course there's challenges when you 
have two people with two big active 
careers but ultimately dinner 
conversation is never boring we always 
have things to talk about what but we 
have implicitly agreed to be each 
other's what we call soft place to land 
after work I can hear you out about the 
things that went well in your day or 
didn't go bad in your day but I'm always 
going to be team Colin I'm not going to 
be like well your boss was right it's 
like listen to you take your side at 
that point and we'll do that for each 
other and it's made and and I wish we 
knew these things when we first got 
married because it wasn't always that 
easy but as you get into it and you 
start to realize like oo that was a lot 
of unnecessary friction but really 
having your own life and your own 
passions you don't need to chameleon 
into what the other person is doing or 
is interested in that's not to say you 
shouldn't if you're dating me and I like 
to ski and you're like I've never skied 
before but I'd give it a try that's 
amazing but that doesn't mean you need 
to give up your life and become a double 
black diamond skier just because I like 
to ski right so it's it's this Nuance 
it's this tight RPP of having your own 
life but being interested in your 
partner love it yes that that's exactly 
it it's like best friends best friends 
our best friends because a lot of the 
times they enjoy doing the same things 
they enjoy talking about the same things 
they enjoy usually shared Mutual 
interests um I think that's that's key 
it's 
not it's not I think the most important 
thing but uh I think the more things 
that you can find that you mutually like 
to do together that definitely helps I 
love that and one of the things that you 
say to 
is you know in addition to have your own 
passions because that's something that's 
really attractive is you say confidence 
is key now if you kind of close your 
eyes right confidence means different 
things to different people and if you 
were walking in to a first day let's say 
you were set up and I was like Colin I 
found this amazing woman and she works 
with me and I really think you guys 
would hit it off now in your mind if you 
can say what what makes somebody seem 
confident is it phys physical is it a 
Jenice sequa is it the way she speaks 
like kind of tell us about what you 
think what is attractive from a 
confidence 
standpoint I would say it's that you 
know Hollywood they refer to it as that 
it quality like when you know movie star 
walks in the room it's almost as if like 
the energy just shifts the molecules in 
the air start to vibrate yeah and this 
is what I I teach in acting class and 
this is what I talk about too just 
owning your space owning the stage and 
uh there's some people who who expand in 
certain environments and some people 
shrink and uh it's that expansion energy 
that I'm attracted to and I would say a 
lot of people are attracted to as well 
and so any any thing that you can do 
that helps you expand that 
energy where you are in your element so 
to speak so whether that's whether you 
like to dance or sing or whatever like 
just keep focusing on doing things like 
that and um so 
when I I guess it it's not about chasing 
after a person in a relationship it's 
doing what you love to do and inviting 
someone to see you in that element where 
you are in that abundant energy because 
that is what people are attracted to and 
if you it's not about the chase it's 
about if you build 
it in the movie Field of Dreams it's if 
you build it he will come but if you 
build it they will come and that's what 
I've really tried to focus on especially 
over the past three years where when I 
was in Hollywood I was going to these 
auditions I was being hired on other 
people's projects and then it was almost 
as if like there was Gatekeepers that 
were saying yes or no to whether I could 
do what I love to do or not and I got to 
a point in my life where I was tired of 
waiting for other people to decide 
whether or not I was able to do what I 
love to do or not so I started to so I 
wrote my book I started teaching acting 
class I and so I it really required me 
getting out of my comfort zone and it 
was not comfortable in the beginning 
parts of it all but if you just focus on 
what you want if you really truly truly 
want a loving amazing 
relationship you're going to do whatever 
it takes to manifest that and I think 
some people when they get out of 
relationships when I talk to them they 
say well I don't ah now I got to go date 
again and now I gotta I have to probably 
date like 50 guys or 50 girls before I 
you know I just that's so much work but 
then when you meet the right person it's 
not work you look forward to it it's you 
know there's that energy and um and so I 
guess long answer or short long answer 
to your question um I am attracted to 
women who are in their element of what 
they do and what they love and when they 
then also can bring a little bit of that 
into my life where let's say I think 
it's really important and I think cool 
like let's say if a guy is sitting 
watching football he's in his element 
he's doing what he loves to do and 
instead because my mom used to walk into 
the the living room my dad would be 
watching baseball or football and she'd 
be like honey we let's do this or you um 
we're going to go to the The Smiths on 
Tuesday and he'd be like yeah yeah okay 
okay and then you know she would leave 
and then it was like Tuesday I would 
come by and like okay you know are you 
ready he be like for what like for I 
told you we're going to the Smiths he's 
like when did you tell me that like I 
told you that the other day when you 
were watching football I was watching 
football like I'm not listening like so 
if a woman could play more in a man's 
world and if a man can play more in a 
woman's world and what I mean by that is 
if my mom would sit down on the couch 
with my dad even if it was just for five 
minutes yeah and instead of going in and 
saying honey we need to do this and this 
and this and this and this if she could 
just get in his world sit down on the 
couch for like five or 10 minutes and 
just even and my mom does not like 
sports she doesn't she wouldn't even 
like she didn't even like to come watch 
us in high school and stuff like that 
you know she's like she just doesn't 
like sports but if she would just sit 
down on the couch and be like so honey 
um you you love football like what do 
you love about 
it so I see that guy he just threw the 
ball to that guy what who is like what 
is that and why would he throw it there 
like just express some interest in what 
a guy does and he'll be like oh yeah so 
that's the quarterback and what he does 
is he throws it to this guy and then 
there's the so what's who's the running 
back well the running back is this guy 
he you know and so even if you don't 
like it if you just show some interest 
in and where the guy can feel in his 
element and it makes him feel good and 
then he's gonna associate you with yeah 
my girl she like you know I know she 
doesn't like football but she's always 
she's so cute she comes in and she like 
sits down with me for like a few minutes 
and she like asks questions and I you 
know I tell her and and then gives me a 
kiss on the cheek and then she goes and 
does her thing you know and one time she 
came in the room and she had a Chicago 
Bears Jersey on and she brought me a 
beer you know and and then that is a way 
to I think that creates those elements 
of connection where 
then a man will start to think about 
hopefully um doing the things that maybe 
he doesn't want to do but like she wants 
to do where then he's you know he will 
feel more invested or more wanting to do 
that because he loves how when she does 
it for him I love that I love that so 
much and it's just it's showing interest 
in each other instead it's instead of 
saying I don't like this it's like well 
maybe you don't like it because you 
don't understand it so go get into his 
world for 10 or 15 minutes and show and 
and maybe maybe you don't want to ask 
him why do you like football as the 
ball's running down the field as top but 
maybe you could say hey wait a second 
what just happened I don't understand 
that like explain this to me right 
that's easy now you're invested in the 
game like just do those little things 
and that's actually such a great tip as 
a parent of teenagers I'll tell you 
that's exactly there are times where I'm 
like my God why are they continuously 
listening to this music and it sounds 
grading and awful and every other word's 
a horrible curse word and then I'm like 
okay take yourself out of yourself walk 
into Max's room and be like who is this 
artist and the conversation totally 
changed it's like oh my God mommy this 
is my favorite song right now this guy 
was on a plane and he was 20 years old 
and let me play you this part I'm like 
it's that easy all I have to do is stop 
judging stop trying to change it and 
instead show a little interest and join 
it it's been breakthrough in our 
relationship my daughter is like hey do 
you want to watch The Bachelor with me 
doing what I do you would think I would 
follow the bachelor i' had never seen it 
until two years ago where she said will 
you watch The Bachelor with me and I 
said I will and it was so fun to get 
into her world and of course doing what 
I do that was even extra special I was 
like this show I'm going to like I 
literally had to just put my hands in my 
mouth and not scream every time 
something happened and it was just a 
great way to bond so getting 
into anybody you have a relationship 
with showing some interest in their 
world having the things you're 
passionate about but being becoming 
interested in theirs and not looking at 
the world as a bunch of zeros and ones I 
don't like this and I do like this no 
get curious get passionate about other 
people and and something that you also 
said is you know it's actually the 
number one thing that when you sent me 
notes for this it's having an energy 
match are you with the right person does 
this person energize you or drain you 
tell me a little bit about this and 
maybe specific situations that you were 
in where someone you thought could be 
great drained you or someone you didn't 
think was going to be amazing but you 
were energized like can you think of as 
a specific 
scenario yeah I mean I'm not going to 
name names but you d certain actresses 
and uh and other women of course um and 
I I'm an introvert by and what I mean by 
that is from what I've read about 
introvert compared to extrovert is that 
my energy gets drained if I'm 
around loud noises or a lot of stimulus 
and and so I need to withdraw to 
re-energize and just kind of get my my 
energy back whereas my brother he just 
thrives in like the energy and he's 
always just like nonstop talking and oh 
yeah let's go here let's go and he'll 
like dude come on let's go I'm like ah 
you know what I'm gonna I'm just gonna 
sit back and I'm just gonna stay you 
know we go to Arizona spring training to 
watch Chicago Cubs and there's there's 
concerts and there's all this stuff and 
sometimes I'll be like no I'm just gonna 
I'm gonna hang here at the hotel and 
just kind of you know just watch a 
little TV like what are you what's wrong 
you know and like and I and I would 
question question myself is there 
something wrong with me that I don't 
want to do that like I like and so like 
I you know just kind of reading about 
this stuff there they're just there's 
different types of personality types and 
I have found myself sometimes with with 
women who just have a lot of energy or 
maybe just 
um 
uh here's one and I'm not trying to 
disparage anyone but sometimes I've been 
in relationships or even some of my 
friends where they just talk a lot and 
there's no room for conversation it's 
like monologue and it's just like I just 
find myself 
just and and after a while like it's 
like do you care about what I think 
about it do you like want to know my 
opinion on this and so I guess in terms 
of energy match I think there's a give 
and take and the more that you can kind 
of just check in with your partner 
and uh ask their opinion or or um maybe 
just kind of be a little self-aware of 
noticing when your partner tends to be a 
little more quiet or when they are amped 
up you know um find out why what makes 
them passionate and just know that you 
can't expect your partner to be 
everything for you so I'm not saying if 
you are with someone who has high energy 
and you are more who is more extroverted 
and you tend to be more introverted um 
not that that won't work um it's just 
that there's just you've got to 
communicate and understand that okay 
honey um do you want to come with me to 
the bar or whatever no you go ahead and 
it's just like where you can be okay 
with one of your partners not going with 
you to something you know where you're 
able to just go do your own thing and 
you go to a party and you go to separate 
parts of the room and you're talking to 
different people instead of having to be 
with each other for everything that you 
do and I think it's really important 
that each partner has the ability to 
just say you know honey I'm going to sit 
this one out I'm just really you sure 
you know like and not making him wrong 
for it exactly and and vice versa I love 
that it's you wouldn't make somebody 
feel badly about wanting to go to the 
concert right and you don't want them to 
make you feel bad about wanting to stay 
back at the hotel it's like you sure you 
good you good yep I'm good you're good 
okay great you go do your thing I love 
that that's so key and energetic matches 
and and I am guessing that when we talk 
about energetic matches another element 
that seems really important to you and 
maybe I'm putting words in your mouth is 
someone who has positive energy and it 
doesn't have to be hyper crazy on stage 
you know a th% of the time extroverted 
positive energy but just positive in the 
sense that look at looks at the world 
from a glass half full standpoint and is 
absent of cattiness and drama so let's 
kind of go there I know you've dated a 
swath of women actresses not actresses 
right cattiness and drama kind of 
suck 
true what's true meaning positive energy 
seems like that's what you're more drawn 
to because I know when we were talking 
more it's like cattiness and drama are 
total turnoff so talk a little bit about 
that is that more in the way people act 
to you is it in the way they're talking 
about others is it all of the 
above I would 
say 
uh in terms of positive energy it really 
it's it's like 
a it's an energetic it's like an 
abundant energy more than anything 
so it um and and yes CAD type of 
talk 
um when I look I I I have my opinions so 
when I'm in a relationship I full force 
we'll be like oh my god did you see this 
movie or did you like did you see this 
and did and I have my opinions about 
certain things but it's not like uh oh 
my god did you see that actor like he 
was hor like or did you see what she was 
wearing that was like 
I have opinions about like oh my god do 
you see that dude wearing that purple 
thing like it's more of a curiosity 
thing than a criticism I like to live my 
life through the the eyes of of Wonder 
and curiosity and if something does look 
weird or strange I'll be like oh my God 
that's the weirdest thing I but I mean 
it in like in a an like well that's 
amazing or like or if I do see something 
that 
is an artist um I I do I mean I I'm not 
going to be afraid to say that you know 
I have my opinions but when it comes to 
um 
relationships man having opinions is a 
very tricky thing because I think it's 
really important to have your opinion 
but not 
just let it fly free it's if your 
partner is doing something that you 
don't approve of or you don't like 
instead of immediately going to why 
would you do that why did you say that 
to that person and it where there's this 
like critical judgmental tone it again 
like what you did with your son what I 
like and this is where the emotional 
intelligence comes into it where you may 
have that urge to be like to say 
something or like what' you do like why' 
you do or like you know F you but if you 
can just contain that urge and this is 
what I find attractive about women when 
they're when I can tell that there's 
like there's that there's that 
restraint and 
there uh they ask a question such 
as 
H and what was the reason you did that 
instead of this where there's like a 
there's room for conversation or there's 
a a direct communication like so I'd 
like to talk to you about something you 
know how the other day you said this 
I've been thinking about it and it 
really made me uncomfortable because of 
this where you're removing the emotion 
out of it because when we bring emotion 
into conversations our defenses go up 
and then there's no room for connection 
and if you want to be right go ahead 
bring all the emotions you want well he 
didn't do this and he said this I'm and 
I'm right well guess what right gets you 
a lot of the times him sleeping on the 
couch and you in the bedroom and you're 
pissed off but if you are committed and 
devoted to a loving caring supportive 
relationship it requires restraint and 
instead of discipline Devotion 
to not only you but if you really truly 
love someone you care about their growth 
you care about their development because 
a lot of times we say and do things that 
we don't even realize are offensive to 
people and if your partner can help you 
work through that stuff without making 
you feel wrong for it I think that's the 
gold you know it's so funny I'm going to 
leap frog off of what you said with 
restraint one of the things that we 
teach our clients and it's something 
that we do in our my house is like my 
petri dish for my relationship theories 
clearly with a long-standing marriage 
and kids but we do something called 
assume positive 
intent and if you switch your lens to 
okay why did you do that that seemed 
really obnoxious it's like I'm going to 
assume for a second like if you were the 
person I was dating I'm going to assume 
Colin had a reason for reacting or 
saying or doing what he did that was 
positive and as soon as I assume 
positive intent from you it switches the 
way I look at the scenario or we can say 
I look at the scene right if I assume 
you've got positivity as your 
intention I won't judge you or be 
critical and it automatically makes me 
assume the best and it takes me down 
from DEFCON 5 back down to defc con one 
and the other thing even when you assume 
positive intent and you can't get to 
that place where you're like God I still 
can't figure out why the hell he would 
do that then the way to start 
conversations that we've found to be so 
helpful in dating and relationships and 
life in general is you know the story 
I'm telling myself is when you said this 
what you wanted me to do was this this 
is the story I'm telling myself is that 
true and what that does it immediately 
has the other person shed their armor 
put their weapon down because now you've 
given them the benefit of the 
doubt assuming positive intent and 
starting with the story I'm telling 
myself means you're implicitly and 
explicitly you're 
acknowledging here's my interpretation 
but that doesn't mean it's the truth and 
that doesn't mean it's what you intended 
I have found in my own relationship when 
we start with the story I'm telling 
myself arguments that could have sprung 
with this amplitude now come down to 
here it's been an amazing shift when you 
give people the benefit of the doubt 
assuming positive intent and I tell my 
clients this in the dating world all the 
time oh my God this guy ghosted me 
because he said his kid was sick I'm 
like assume positive intent his kid was 
sick and now come from a place of 
empathy instead of assuming it's ly 
you'll find out one way or the other but 
why don't you assume positive intent and 
then you're putting that good energy out 
there and at least half of the time it 
was true now imagine if you came in to 
that going that's dirty rotten scoundrel 
he lied to me again when he really did 
have a sick kid what's that guy going to 
do red flag that's a drama queen 
controlling game 
over that's yeah I everything you said 
is is so spoton 
and while you were just saying 
that it just came to I I just got this 
thought that um assuming the the 
positive 
I think what acting has taught me 
especially with regards to dating 
and when someone doesn't text you 
back I think what acting has taught me 
and auditioning has taught me about 
dating is that if I go into an 
audition they act like oh my God you 
like Colin so good to see you how was 
that show oh my I love you in this movie 
you were so great okay great like all 
right you ready let's do this audition 
and you know I'll I and to do an 
audition you got to put your whole heart 
and soul it takes hours to prepare for 
these auditions money working with 
acting teachers and you get prepared and 
then you go into this room and then if 
you can tell that they're receptive to 
what you're doing obviously it's a great 
feeling because you feel like okay there 
maybe there's a possibility for us to 
collaborate and to do this movie and and 
it feels great because there's feels 
like there's Synergy and energy and you 
feel like you did a great job and then 
I'll leave and I'll call my agent like 
wow that was amazing it felt like really 
great in there and it doesn't always 
feel like that but when it does you know 
I call my agent so you know can you 
follow up and they he'll call back yep 
they loved you the you know you're one 
of their top you know actors picks for 
the role so far awesome and then few 
days goes by a week goes by two 
weeks hey agent um did they they call 
about that project that you know like 
felt like we had something like it was 
great you know and uh no haven't heard 
from let me check 
in day goes by two days hey agent did 
did you ever get a hold of them no no 
they I I reached out to them they never 
got back to me and this is what happens 
in dating where you may go on a 
spectacular date it may feel great and 
then nothing and this is what acting has 
taught me with regards to dating it's 
not that there was anything wrong with 
you it's not that there's anything bad 
about you because we can take things so 
personally it just you weren't the right 
fit and there's nothing right or wrong 
about that and the thing that you can 
there's nothing you can control about 
whether I get a job or not other than me 
becoming the best actor and the best 
version of myself so that the next time 
when I walk into that room I am the pick 
and some people may saywell they I never 
get picked I have gone on over 2,000 
auditions wow and I've gotten picked 
about 40 
times wow I have Goosebump that's a lot 
of NOS but it's not even a no it's not 
the right fit but in that process I've 
had all these amazing experiences of 
working all around the world working 
with Kate Hudson getting to kiss Kate 
Hudson uh and and doing uh all these 
different projects and making good money 
and all this like amazing stuff has come 
out of all of this but that's the tip of 
the iceberg compared to all of the work 
and the structure that went into it and 
it's not wasted go on dates go 
experience things and if it works out 
great if not his loss or her loss and if 
they're not calling you back back it 
means that it's there's nothing wrong 
with you or it just wasn't the right fit 
and if you want to increase your 
chances what can you do to be the better 
version of yourself take ownership of it 
stop blaming someone for not texting you 
back just move on and have that attitude 
of I'm the freaking queen I'm the 
freaking King and if they don't want me 
then I'm going to find my king or my 
queen but you got to get out you got to 
keep creating that energy and that 
abundance and that energy instead of 
retreating and sitting in front of the 
TV with net on watching Netflix and 
eating ice cream where you're just like 
basking in your like oh I didn't like me 
you know I think it's important to 
recognize like when you know we we've 
got to cycle through our emotions and 
not deny them but don't stay in it for 
too long like give yourself that time to 
to like when I don't get a job I'm like 
 like godamn it you know 
when you get that no it's like what's 
wrong with me like ah and then nope 
Colin nope there's nothing wrong commit 
to go back to acting class reading 
another script just keep creating 
Mastery and the actor that I am right 
now I'm a much B better actor than I was 
10 years ago 20 years ago and just know 
the more that you can be in this 
conversation and be in this conversation 
of abundance and getting out there and 
doing things that that make you feel 
great about you you're going to increase 
your chances of finding that partner 
Who's Gonna See You In Your Glory like 
man 
that I I want to ask that person out 
because there's just something like 
there's that it quality bottom that I 
just you know I love and like I it's 
attractive oh my God as you were talking 
like my mind was whirling because I was 
thinking about 40 yeses to 2,000 
auditions right like that's okay so if 
you got if you're out there and single 
listening to this right there's it 
people always say you got to play the 
numbers game you want to play it smart 
but you've got to play the numbers game 
and what I love so much about what you 
said and the the metaphor that came to 
mind was they're not saying no I'm just 
not the right fit it's like a lock in a 
key and at a certain point point every 
interaction in your life is like locking 
key and are you the key that's going to 
unlock that particular lock 40 times you 
were the key to that lack yeah and the 
other 
1,000 whatever 
2,675 whatever that you weren't it's 
okay the key didn't fit the lock and so 
if you can take this metaphor that I 
think Colin so beautifully explained 
about how dating is like auditions and 
you just think of yourself this isn't 
rejection of you as a human being you 
suck you're a terrible actor you're a 
bad dater I don't like you you're 
unattractive it's the lock in the key 
didn't fit move on to the next one I 
love that so much and this was like I 
full body chills as you were telling 
those stories so I um am so grateful for 
your authenticity and your generosity 
and your 
transparency in in in the conversation 
with me you know are there any last 
things that you want to tell the dear 
listener I would say in on now we're on 
the subject of authenticity if you're 
really looking for some feedback like 
with auditions I I would sometimes um if 
there was a really a project that I 
really wanted cared about and my agent 
was not able to get any feedback of why 
I didn't get the job uh sometimes I 
would find myself at parties or 
networking events or whatever and I 
would go up to the casting director and 
I'd be like hey you know hey how you 
been what's going on by the way um and I 
think it's important to frame things so 
that people don't feel like they're 
explaining themselves yeah I like to 
frame things in the sense 
of of if they know that you are if 
they're contributing to someone's growth 
or development people are more willing 
to give advice so what I do is I say Hey 
listen 
um you know remember that project um 
because I love acting and I I man I love 
that role and I and I I love what I do 
I'm committed to being you know the best 
actor I can possibly be is there 
anything that you feel like you could 
share with me about what I did in that 
audition that you feel could contribute 
to my growth and development as an actor 
people love to offer that type of advice 
and they're like yeah you know what um 
you were great you were but there was 
another and there's really nothing that 
we can say that really was not great 
about what you did but there was another 
actor that came in and his choices were 
a little more a little more specific a 
little more intense a little we felt his 
his vulnerability more in that part and 
and it just not that you had fans in 
that room Colin you did but that other 
actor just came in and he was just and 
you know whether it was the better fit 
or whatever but you can usually glean 
some sort of information from that and 
I'll be and you don't want to like be 
like but tell me more you just want to 
like a little bit you don't want to like 
keep pressing someone it's enough where 
you can kind of get some feedback where 
then okay vulnerability or like some 
sort of feedback and what I've I've 
parlay that into because I do do some 
coaching myself and I was working with 
this woman and she's single and she was 
um trying to get my take on some of her 
relationships from the male perspective 
and I said well have you ever are you 
still friends with and she did say well 
I'm still friends with some of these 
guys but I'm just not with them and I 
said well what would you think it would 
look like and do you think they'd be 
open to this if you were to ask 
them without putting them on the 
defensive um just ask them what was it 
about you that made them not want to be 
with you 
anymore and would you be comfortable 
asking that question to them and she was 
like I don't know 
uh I mean I'm kind of 
curious maybe I don't know and she did 
it and she did it and our next call she 
said oh my God Colin that was so 
insightful she was like he just told me 
how how like sometimes I would just get 
in my own little world and I wouldn't 
pay attention to what he was 
doing and I wouldn't like I W I 
wasn't interested in his world and and I 
just kind of felt like well if he 
doesn't want to do something then I 
guess I should just do my own thing and 
she's like I realized that I need to be 
more engaging and I she said she he said 
something along the lines of like um he 
said you can be very cold at 
times and she was like I didn't even 
realize I she's like I just was like 
giving him his space and to him it was I 
didn't 
care 
so if you people out there if you have 
the opportunity if you feel like it's 
not going to cause any fights or 
whatever if you still feel 
friendly just reach out to someone say 
listen I'm just I'm I'm in this growth 
and Vel mment phase in my life and I'm 
just learning more about myself and um 
can I ask you just a question about like 
when we were 
dating generally people are like pretty 
open to that like so um what would you 
say is maybe a reason what why our 
relationship didn't work out maybe just 
kind of start there where it's not like 
well what didn't you like about me 
because people are not going to hesitate 
people are don't want to hurt your 
feelings but just start what do you 
think was some of the reasons why 
relationship didn't work out and then 
you can kind of go and and then say was 
there something that you didn't 
feel uh supported with or was there 
something that I I do that made you not 
attracted to me anymore or something 
like that and just and it again it's how 
you say it if you say it with a critical 
like so what like why didn't you like me 
you know like that sort of thing but if 
you approach it as like I genuinely just 
want to know this will help me and it 
you know I love you and I I loved our 
time together I realized it didn't work 
out I'm not asking to whatever I I'm 
just in a growth and development phase 
in my life and I just you know I I'm 
just trying to learn from my 
relationships um and I think that would 
definitely uh make a difference you know 
it's so funny we do this we work with 
some of our clients um many of our 
clients work with us for a year at Smart 
dating Academy and one of the very first 
exercises we have them do is what we 
call a 360 feedback and we give them the 
opportunity to send some verbiage in 
writing to people that are in their 
Village could be friends family 
colleagues exes to ask them the answer 
to one question and that answer comes 
directly to me not to my client why do 
you think blah blah blah hasn't found 
the right partner yet why do you think I 
haven't found the right partner yet and 
so the feedback that we get and we've 
been doing this for 12 years I could 
write a book just on the feedback that 
we've gotten about individual clients 
and the clients determine who those 
people are and the client does the reach 
out because if I do the reach out it 
feels judgmental and critical to that 
person's village and then they're like 
uh but if you for example as my client 
reached out to 10 of your people and 
said hey I'm working with this great 
coach and as part of this I would love 
for you to send her the answer to the 
following question why haven't I found 
the right partner yet I'm choosing you 
because you're amazing you're supportive 
and I promise I won't get my feelings 
hurt and then my team and I take that 
feedback and we look for patterns if 
somebody if one person says something 
I'm like me whatever it's an opinion but 
if three or more people say the same 
thing then it could be something that 
you're doing that's amazing and we want 
want you to do more of that or it could 
be one of those pesky little blind spots 
that we don't you know we may not know 
about or we're like man I thought only I 
knew that about myself but chances are 
everybody kind of knows right there's 
we're kind of a big open book of secrets 
we think we don't display these things 
but usually people are like n you kind 
of do that all the time so yeah it's 
really and like I've heard people say 
like yeah I'm so easygo and I don't 
understand why he didn't want to be I'm 
like 
like this is a friend of mine like we 
were talking about dating I'm just I'm 
so easygoing and like I I just go with 
the I'm like seriously you easygo what 
I'm easygoing like oh my God if you 
think you are easygoing like wow 
like oh my God that's hilarious I was 
talking to my sister-in-law who you know 
the other day I said well you know this 
person was just so intense I'm not sure 
that we're like a great match and en 
and she looked at me she's like um hey 
intense I was like really she's like 
really and so right it was a very like 
oh wow okay yeah I guess under certain 
circumstances I'm probably put into the 
intense quadrant She's Like H probably 
all of the time for anybody that knows 
you so it was hilarious I'm like wow 
that person's really intense she's like 
this is what we call the pot calling the 
kettle black so it was have these 
conversations with people that will give 
you that feedack back they'll put you 
right in your place oh yeah and the 
reason why I said that to her is because 
I remember she called me once and I was 
at this was in LA a few years ago I was 
at a Carl's Jr hamburger place and I'd 
been mountain biking and I was there 
with my friends we were eating 
cheeseburgers and she called me and 
she's like hey what are you doing I'm 
like oh I just at Carl's Jr she goes why 
are you eating that 
 so when she said I'm just I'm so 
easy going I don't know like 
you like you you criticized me for 
eating Carl Jr like what after a 
thousand ceter bike ride yeah I just 
burn 4,000 calories 
like that's hilarious oh I wish uh I 
wish we were in person I'd give you a 
big hug and thank you for all of your 
generosity and hopefully we can um we'll 
get this episode up really soon because 
Colin tell us about the Inspire Summit 
for those of you that are in Chicago and 
I'm so excited to be in it yes yes so 
this is our first in-person Inspire 
events so I've created my Inspire brand 
a couple years ago uh and it essentially 
build off of what I talk about in my 
book agile artists success principles 
mind body and spirit and uh I did a 
virtual Inspire event last year with six 
motivational speakers and just a variety 
of different people that talk on 
different topics of you had you talking 
about relationships and Entrepreneurship 
and and finance and uh just all kind of 
did the whole gamut of I Lov it speaking 
to being the best version of yourself 
mind body and spirit and on April 23rd 
here in Chicago at The Ambassador Hotel 
from 1:00 to 5 PM we are going to be 
doing uh a a 
motivational mind body and spirit uh 
we're going to have speakers myself I'm 
doing a keynote uh I'm going to be 
interviewing you we've got a guest panel 
so it's sh Chicago's 
top entrepreneurs in different areas of 
of uh of career and life and all that 
sort of thing and then afterwards at the 
pump room we're going to be doing uh an 
amazing networking event where you'll 
have the opportunity to meet other 
people who are just creating abundance 
and who are doing amazing things and 
that's going to be from 6: to 900 p.m. 
and uh you can go to my Instagram bio 
and up at the top there it's an event 
bright link to the Inspire virtual event 
again or sorry live event this is the 
first time we're doing live uh again on 
April 
23rd and uh yeah you're gonna be there 
and I can't wait I can't wait and I hope 
and I hope any of you that are sitting 
here in Chicago and wondering what to do 
on Saturday April 23rd col and I both 
want to meet you so make sure that you 
sign up for this there's going to be a 
link in my bio on my Instagram at Smart 
dating Academy and we'll also put a link 
to it in the show notes here so thank 
you Colin for being you thank you for 
this I can't wait for the Inspire Summit 
and as always my dear listener thank you 
for tuning in and we can't wait to see 
you next week have a good one 
thanks 
Bella 


God you know this is my favorite time of 
year because something amazing happens 
at this time of year and I want to help 
you get ready for Peak dating season I'm 
bringing you Lindsay the Superstar of 
Insider secrets to dating let's empty 
our brains out for all these beautiful 
people globally that want to know what 
the hell is Peak dating season and why 
we're here we joke it always follows 
like the weight loss Trends you know if 
you try to go to the gym in the 
beginning of January you are like 
pushing people off the treadmill left 
and right the classes are full all of 
the regular people are like who are all 
these strangers in my class same thing 
happens online people get excited if 
they think thought about trying dating 
before and they haven't been on the 
sites they'll jump on like gangbusters 
if they've taken a break for a while 
they get right back on because everybody 
is ready to do something fresh I think 
it makes it so us were fun 


welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
excited to talk to you about what time 
of year this is 
you're probably thinking okay it's 
Christmas it's New Year's no it's 
something way more than that it's 
Peak dating season now you might think 
to yourself is there really a pig dating 
season and the answer is a resounding oh 
yes there is and you are about to hear 
all about it now what is Peak dating 
season so 
in 2012 I started Consulting with match 
and they have shared lots of data not 
just with me but with everybody in 
general so they've been looking at data 
since the 90s about how cyclical online 
dating is and so what happens starting 
December 26th every year year over year 
like two decades more than two decades 
worth of data now is the holidays drive 
people into a dating mindset thus the 
name cuffing season right you want 
someone that you get cuffed to 
handcuffed to and you're in a committed 
exclusive relationship but we have these 
cuffing instincts around the holidays 
maybe it's driven because we don't want 
Aunt Mildred to say to us well are you 
still single Bella what's going on when 
are you going to meet somebody are you 
still being so picky or maybe you're 
just looking at the tree and all the 
happy couples around you think King 
when am I going to find the lid to my 
cute little pot so those things 
certainly drive people to start thinking 
about dating the day after Christmas but 
then what ends up happening what do we 
do on January 1st 
we make New Year's resolutions we're 
going to level up our lives right new 
year new me and what am I gonna do now 
take a step back 
the U.S census data tells us that there 
are a hundred and eighteen million 
single adults in this country that's 48 
of the adult population so now you've 
got almost half of America 
January 1 
single what do you think they're going 
to resolve 
getting back out into the dating pool oh 
my kids are telling me I need to try 
dating apps and I've never done that I'm 
fresh out of divorce should I do this is 
this my year maybe I lost my spouse five 
years ago and I'm just feeling like I 
might be ready and so the new year 
brings out these these instincts in us 
where we want to do things differently 
and commit to ourselves and commit to 
loving ourselves in a new way so these 
two things result in Peak dating season 
so Peak lasts from December 26 and 
really on the books goes until 
Valentine's Day so the busiest online 
dating day of the year was Sunday 
January 2nd and match had it mapped down 
to the busiest moment was like 8 52 p.m 
Eastern Standard time but we're now 
listening to this and we're you know 
through the middle of January and all is 
not lost you still have time to take 
advantage of peak dating season right 
and it's kind of good the holidays are 
over maybe you've paid off your credit 
card bills you can think about investing 
a little bit in yourself at this point 
and thinking about what you want who do 
you want what are you looking for this 
time around right and really thinking 
doing a deep dive into your own 
checklist are you operating off of the 
right checklist how do you have a 
checklist right do you know what red 
flags are what are the green flags what 
gets people sifted in what gets them 
thrown out so you want to do a little 
internal Deep dive with yourself to 
really know with Clarity who you are 
what you want at this point in your life 
what a good partner for you looks like 
and I'm not talking about physically 
looks like I'm talking about who a good 
lid to your pot actually is like a lid 
in a pot they actually fit together 
right and and it could be a tempered 
glass lid it could be a cast iron lid it 
could be a dented steel lid whatever it 
is there's many Lids to your pot but how 
do you want to feel when you're with 
this person and have you accepted bad 
people into your dating life maybe 
you've been divorced maybe you were 
broken up with maybe you haven't dated 
in a long time because you're afraid and 
you've built walls around yourself 
what's going on and if you need help 
seek help from professionals guys 25 
years ago I I've been married for almost 
25 years I would have given my eye teeth 
to have a dating coach to have a 
therapist to have somebody around me 
that could help me with this if you need 
help with this seek out the help to make 
sure that you're not going to do the 
same things over and over again okay 
once you have a support system around 
you maybe you've got a coach maybe 
you've got a therapist maybe you've got 
me and our Instagram wives and this 
podcast and and your friends what I want 
you to do is number one 
get yourself into the right mindset and 
you know what that mindset is called 
it's called psychotic optimism yes I 
said it psychotic optimism what does 
that mean it means I want you to think 
about your dating life as if you've 
already achieved love okay love exists 
for me it's a when it's not an if I know 
that the lid to my pot is out there and 
all I have to do is date like crazy to 
find this person okay but psychotic 
optimism knows that there's going to be 
ups and downs to this process and that's 
why I use the word psychotic okay 
optimistic even in the face of being 
ghosted not hearing from anybody that 
you've messaged people standing you up 
okay all of that but you still maintain 
that fire in your belly that flame that 
spark in your heart that says love is 
out there for me and I know it and I 
know that this dating and being out 
there and looking for my boo is just 
part of my journey and this is part of 
my story okay and so along with being 
psychotically optimistic what you're 
going to do is the reciprocal of that 
get rid of the negative thoughts get rid 
of the Mind monkeys stop telling 
yourself man I'm too old my mom was 
right I'm too damaged I've had too many 
partners I have too many kids I'm too 
fat I live in a rural town I'm too old 
whatever it is I'm too bald I'm too 
short whatever it is that you are 
saddling yourself with concrete blocks 
on your shoulders and on your shoes I 
want you to take those things off I want 
you to strip yourself of those negative 
things that you're telling yourself and 
I want you to bathe yourself in optimism 
think about all of the amazing things 
that you are the things that you will 
bring to this romantic partnership you 
are going to be a great lid to somebody 
pot and you're fun and you're exciting 
and you're reliable and you're 
consistent and you're always growing and 
you're a learner because you wouldn't be 
listening to me and listening to this 
podcast if you were get psychotically 
optimistic and start to rid yourself of 
the Mind trash that you're telling 
yourself because our minds are all baked 
in with this negativity bias right the 
negativity bias wants to keep us stuck 
where we are it wants to keep us doing 
the same thing over and over again why 
not because it's an evil mind it's a 
mind that wants to keep us safe and not 
hurt and not disappointed and not 
heartbroken right and so it keeps us 
safe by telling us these bad stories but 
I want you to strip yourself of those 
shackles get rid of those concrete shoes 
get rid of those concrete blocks on your 
shoulders and I want you to tell 
yourself love exists for me it's a when 
it's not an if and I want you to take 
that fervor and that psychotic optimism 
with you all day today always week while 
you're listening to this and I want you 
to take some action okay so thing number 
one to do for Peak dating season now 
that you know what it is is to become a 
psychotic Optimist and I think Steve 
Harvey calls me the Fairy Godmother of 
dating and I the Fairy Godmother of 
dating and am officially inducting you 
into the club of psychotic optimists at 
Smart dating Academy so I hope you're 
laughing I have a magic wand and I'm 
gonna bring it out on another episode 
I'm gonna cast a spell on all of you and 
make you permanently psychotically 
optimistic so now let's get down to the 
brass tacks Peak dating season what do I 
do online dating memberships are up 50 
to 80 percent right I want you to think 
about either if you're not out there at 
all pick one or two if you're brand new 
to this just do one okay and if you're 
out there already maybe you've got five 
six different apps on your phone Bumble 
hinge Tinder match eHarmony limit down 
to one or two okay and now if I had five 
dollars for every person that asked me 
Bella 
what's the best site to be on 
what I'm going to tell you is there is 
no one perfect site all of the sites 
have good people all of the sites have 
meh people that are not going to be for 
you you have to look at online dating as 
the world's largest cocktail party 
and all of these apps 
are like rooms at the cocktail party 
you want to be at the party and you can 
go room to room and try different apps 
right I like big sites and big apps 
because we're trying to maximize our 
chances of meeting the lid to our pot so 
you might as well have a big Haystack to 
look for your needle and then a little 
Haystack right so you know what I'm 
saying because if it's really a small 
super nichy site maybe you know it's for 
you know 
tall tall singles that are over six feet 
tall how many tall tall singles are 
there going to be because the research 
shows that only 12 to 14 percent of men 
in this country are over six feet tall 
and the average American woman is only 
five foot five so now think about that 
denominator you're gonna have a really 
really small group of people or on 
gluten-free singles or things like that 
you might find people that have similar 
habits or similar interests but you're 
not going to find that wide swath of 
people that you would at any massive 
event so pick one or two big sites or 
apps to be on okay so that was Point 
number two now Point number three is 
here's where we get really really into 
the weeds you guys what is going to make 
you successful is having great photos 
I need you to have six amazing photos 
and if you don't know what good photos 
look like I want you to go to 
smartdatingacademy.com go to the profile 
or photos page go to our inspiring 
stories on our site and you'll see lots 
of before and after photos you need to 
have six amazing photos what most people 
do is they pick six of the best photos 
that they have in their phone which I'm 
telling you most likely aren't that 
great sorry to say it don't shoot the 
messenger I do sessions with people all 
day long seven days a week and what 
people typically are so excited to show 
me that have come out of their phones 
and their tripods they're not the 
quality that the best of the best are 
putting out there and I'm telling you if 
you look at the stuff we're putting out 
there it's the top one percent of the 
one percent you want to be in that 
category if you can so five to six great 
photos now you've got to have great 
headshots and great body shots okay by a 
great headshot I mean a photo that's 
maybe up to your shoulders that shows 
you looking right at the camera smiling 
high resolution no Shadows on your face 
nobody else blurred out nobody else in 
your photos you and only you where you 
look engaging you want to make eye 
contact with this person that's looking 
at your photos on these sites or apps 
you want them to stop and look at you 
and go oh this person looks interesting 
I love this photo he or she looks so 
cute and so genuine and sincere let me 
look in for more and that'll get you the 
right swipe or the message on a site 
like match so you want six great photos 
now your opening headshot is the most 
important shot but then ladies and 
gentlemen 
you need to have body shots okay I mean 
full body head to knees Head to Toes 
people want to see what you look like 
put that cute self out there don't tell 
me you've gained the covid-19 who hasn't 
okay nobody ever thinks they're cute the 
way they are or perfect the way they are 
your Fairy Godmother is here to tell you 
you are perfect just the way you are 
judge yourself up okay that's the other 
thing you don't want to look like you've 
been couch surfing all day or you just 
came back from a long run and you're 
sweaty and gross you want to look like 
you're dressed to impress dress up 
really nicely in your photos women 
wear dresses wear skirts look girly wear 
a cute pair of jeans with a cute top 
pencil skirts tend to photograph best 
belts show off your figure remember 
you're a smart dater we're not going for 
hot we're going for pretty or elegant 
and gentlemen step it up throw on the 
sport coats throw on the suits women 
like to see a man with the plan and if 
you're a man looking for a man same 
thing who doesn't want to see a stepped 
up man ties are fine hell wear a tuxedo 
whatever it is and if you say well I 
don't normally look like that I'm 
telling you you want to dress yourself 
up in these photos and dress yourself up 
for dates why not show the other person 
that you respect yourself and you 
respect them even if you live in a warm 
climate 
put on a suit put on a sport coat do the 
thing trust me we have tons of data 
around this that shows that when you 
look like you're the man or the woman 
that takes themselves seriously and you 
respect yourself and you know how to 
look your best you will get a much 
greater response okay so enough about 
photos and the last thing is oh well 
enough about photos I can never say 
enough about photos you guys I want you 
to have six great photos all in 
different outfits don't take photos of 
yourself professional photos in your 
favorite red sweater and post six of 
those that is not what I mean these 
photos have to have different 
backgrounds different outfits what we do 
at our professional photo shoots at 
Smart dating Academy we stage all those 
shots even though they look like oh my 
God those are the best photos I've ever 
seen we do those quickly at our shoots 
if you want to replicate something like 
that you do you Boo and go do that or 
obviously you can enlist us and hire us 
to do that for you but you want to make 
these these photos look Dynamic exciting 
like somebody just caught you in the 
moment No Gray backdrops no LinkedIn 
photos and please for the love of me do 
not have photos that do not look like 
the current version of you do not show 
me a photo of you five hair Shades ago 
do not show me a photo of you with a lot 
more hair than you have now do not show 
me a photo of what you look like 20 
pounds ago and whether that's you've 
gained weight or you've lost weight 
people want to date the person in the 
picture your photo should be no more 
than one year old yes I did a session 
with the girl today who said but I look 
the same in this photo's three years old 
I said to her you don't look the same 
I'm looking at you I do this for a 
living you think you look the same the 
data shows guys lots of psychological 
research that we do not pick the best 
photos of ourselves enlist somebody to 
help you whether you've got that 
objective friend that will tell you the 
truth your crew of people your village 
maybe it's your therapist if they'll go 
there maybe it's a coach have someone 
objective tell you what your best photos 
are because we do not pick the best 
photos of ourselves I ask my husband I 
ask my kids I asked the people that work 
with me for me my friends which photos 
look best and they pick and I'll tell 
you what it's very rarely the ones I 
will pick okay so that is what I have to 
say about photos I have a lot more to 
say but for purposes of peak dating 
season and this podcast and all the 
other stuff that I want to get through 
for you to really Master peek look the 
majority of your success with online 
dating on the outside on the inside 
there's a whole lot of other stuff that 
we need to talk about right like mindset 
green flags red flags for women we call 
them high GHQ guys understanding who 
your high GHQ guy is and what those red 
flags are but uh externally what's going 
to result in the majority of your 
success in online dating are your photos 
so invest in a great set of photos don't 
think you can do this on your own we run 
these love lab workshops and people 
submit photos to us none of their photos 
that they do at home are ever ever as 
good as the ones that someone else will 
take for them professionally right and 
half of them end up coming to us to do 
their photos after the lab so photos are 
so so crucial okay then in your text now 
it's going to depend the text in your 
profile okay and that's the section 
where you can write about yourself free 
form right with Tinder or Bumble you get 
about 200 characters which is like a 
sentence or two basically but on a site 
like match it'll say tell me more about 
you in your own words right so you've 
got way more space to talk about 
yourself what I want to tell you is I 
could do an entire hour on how to write 
a profile in fact I wrote a book on how 
to produce the perfect work but how to 
produce the Perfect online profile for 
match and Bumble it's a book that we 
only give out our love lab workshops in 
our one-on-one coaching programs but 
what I can tell you is what you want to 
do is think about your online profile as 
a bunch of little tiny stories about 
yourself you know maybe like stringing 
together lots of vivid pictures of 
yourself tell me about your favorite 
trip to Ghana and what that means to you 
forever right what your you know what 
are some of the most noteworthy things 
you've experienced what do you do for 
work and instead of what do you do what 
do you love about your job what are you 
most passionate about think about 
yourself as a product in cyberspace and 
you want to differentiate yourself right 
you want to think about this from a 
marketing standpoint so instead of just 
saying I'm adventurous you can say I've 
hiked Mount Everest or for some people I 
am not that adventurous in hell if I'm 
ever going to hike up Everest or you 
know basically I can ski a Blue Mountain 
but that's about the level of my 
adventure there's no blacks for this 
girl in her future so talking about that 
like I'm a blue diamond skier for some 
people like Lindsay who works with me 
she's a helicopter skier they take that 
girl and plunk her down on a mountain 
and watch her sail down no thank you not 
for me but again level of 
adventurousness what is that for you 
what does that mean to you what do you 
do for fun right and really painting 
those pictures look at your sentences 
and close your eyes and say can I 
imagine this can I see what this looks 
like for someone else and filling your 
profile with those little one to two 
sentence kind of vignettes about 
yourself that show versus tell give the 
give the reader a lot of conversational 
starters for you as well it's so awkward 
to try to compose a message to someone 
that you might think is cute or 
interesting if they haven't said 
anything interesting in their profile 
give people something interesting to 
talk about right what do you like to 
watch what do you like to listen to what 
do you like to go what do you like to 
eat any of those things and you're 
probably sitting back and thinking to 
yourself I'm kind of boring I promise 
you you are not boring you are the 
farthest thing from boring every single 
person comes to me thinking I'm boring 
and I promise you you are not boring you 
are amazing you just need to think about 
yourself in a constructive and clever 
and creative way okay so that's how 
you're going to write your profile and 
what I want you to think about too is 
being really positive in your profile 
don't have any negative text don't talk 
about the gloom and doom of Omicron and 
what's going to happen with the pandemic 
and woe is me and all of the issues that 
you've had and most importantly don't 
put the things you're not looking for in 
your profile that sounded like a double 
negative but what I mean is you don't 
want to say please do not contact me if 
and list a string of negative things 
along because if you're putting negative 
energy out there what's going to come 
back to you negative people okay so you 
want to stay positive you want to stay 
specific Vivid and Lucid in your profile 
and it doesn't have to be a personal 
Manifesto right it just has to be 
something that's compelling playful 
specific that really sounds like you 
again have someone else look at your 
profile have someone else edit your 
profile maybe you've got friends that 
are great writers maybe you hire a 
professional writer hire a coach hire 
someone that can really help you with 
that it's like if you were gonna 
interview for you know change careers 
you probably wouldn't write your own 
resume right you'd want an updated 
current format that really positions you 
as the polished person you are and you 
would hire a professional to do that 
today all of these Services exist take 
advantage things you guys you don't need 
to do this alone okay you don't need to 
do this alone so now I've told you four 
things mindset picking apps one or two 
having six great photos and your profile 
text the fifth Point okay the final 
point that I'm going to leave you with 
is I want you to have a dating strategy 
and I want you to do this every single 
day okay at least for 30 days I want you 
to have 30 minutes a day 15 minutes in 
the morning and 15 minutes in the 
evening very very manageable do not tell 
me you cannot do that because I 
bellagondi will find 30 minutes in your 
day you guys you sleep for eight hours 
you are awake for 16 hours even if you 
work eight hours a day that leaves 
another eight hours of open awake time 
that you are not working I can find you 
15 minutes in the morning and 15 minutes 
in the evening to compose messages swipe 
message like people the sites like 
people that are active and they 
prioritize you in relevant people's 
searches and I want you to know that 
that nationally only 10 percent of 
messages that we write get responded to 
so if you're writing messages to people 
and you're not getting a response 9 out 
of ten messages don't get responded to 
don't take it personally don't say I 
suck don't say online dating is for the 
birds it's never worked for me shut it 
down and hibernate I'm telling you this 
is all normal I have a company that 
helps people to do this and we help 
people to stay motivated and accountable 
and inspired through this process so I 
promise you you are not alone in this 
and you're gonna have some fun during 
Peak dating season but you have to 
change things up I've given you tons of 
information here about the things to do 
concretely to get yourself Rick of peak 
dating season you do not have to wait 
okay switch things up the definition of 
insanity is doing the same thing over 
and over again right and expecting 
different results that that is 
impossible I've given you so many things 
that you could possibly change and I 
want you to take the bank do the things 
I'm telling you right if you are having 
real problems with this send a message 
to us smartdatingacademy.com we're an 
investment and you are worth every 
single investment that you want to make 
in yourself we invest in others we take 
care of others how often do we actually 
nourish educate and invest in ourselves 
you are worth it have someone help you 
through this process and Ace peek to it 
and follow us on Instagram follow us I 
do a lot of Instagram lives you can 
follow us at smartdating Academy on our 
YouTube channel and there's going to be 
lots of episodes that are going to help 
you with your dating life and to find 
love in a happy the happy way and find 
the lid to your pot and I promise you I 
am going to hold your hand through all 
of it and help you to find the lid to 
your pot 
see you soon 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to the podcast and this 
sweet mini episode where I'm going to 
tell you about what is a beige flag it 
we all know what red flags are sometimes 
I call Flags yellow or pink flags if 
we're not exactly sure they're red flags 
but it seems like it's like not really 
sure and then there's green flags right 
of the things you really want in your 
relationship that are going to make you 
happy now what is a beige flag so a 
couple of months ago I went on GMA on 
Good Morning America to talk about what 
a beige flag is and it was inspired by 
Tik Tock as so many new trends are so if 
you look up # beige Flags online there's 
hundreds of millions I think of views on 
beige Flags so what beige flags are is 
they started out a year ago where 
ticktockers would say beige flags were 
flags that somebody was really beige 
boring vanilla any of those things and 
for a side note I love vanilla ice cream 
um I don't find it boring at all and I 
wear a lot of beige as well so haha but 
beige flags were really to designate 
somebody that was a boring date but as 
beige flag started to get talked about 
more and more with ticktockers what we 
found is that the definition of a beige 
flag has morphed beige Flags what I 
talked about on GMA now means it's kind 
of a fun fact or something quirky about 
you or your partner so you can look up 
Tik Tock or on Instagram reals What are 
beig flags so for example example one of 
the ones I talked about on Good Morning 
America which happens to come from my 
19-year-old daughter and her sweet 
boyfriend we were talking about beige 
flags and both of my kids Max and Jaden 
are 15 and 19 they're all over Tik Tok 
they're like oh yeah we know what beige 
flags are so I said what would a beige 
flag be in your relationship and she 
said well when we watch scary movies I 
you know typically it's the girl that's 
supposed to go ah I'm scared right but 
instead he covers his ey eyes and puts 
his head in her shoulders so she said # 
beige flag my boyfriend puts his head in 
my on my shoulder and covers his eyes 
beige flag so now what we talked about 
on GMA which I think was a really 
interesting spin on this and what I want 
you to think about is okay let's say you 
can beige flag yourself like what are 
your own quirky endearing facts about 
yourself right something that's kind of 
funny like oh my you know beige flag for 
Bella is I don't like tomatoes I don't 
eat raw Tomatoes ever ever if I make 
salsa at home I blend the tomatoes in my 
Vitamix with the cilantro and the onions 
and all of that but I don't like chunky 
Tomatoes if you're eating with me you'll 
see if there's a Capra salad I'll eat 
the barata so hash beige flag don't like 
raw Tomatoes like pureed Tomatoes love 
pizza sauce but that is my beige flag 
potentially now where could a beige flag 
potentially be a Harbinger for a red 
flag that's really the thing I want you 
to think about so let's 
say a hasht beige flag for your for 
somebody you're dating is oh he's always 
so hungry that he eats the last bite of 
anything that we share and never asks me 
if I want the last bite he's so hungry 
hahaa beige flat now okay that's a 
little strange a little not courteous 
right to eat the last bite without 
asking but we could beige flag it for 
the moment now where that beige flag 
could ostensibly become a red flag is if 
you start to see more signs of this 
person who eats the last bite being 
selfish across a variety of different 
arenas for example if this person when 
you're out at a restaurant only orders 
order for you and orders what they want 
to eat right all strange so just people 
that seem to be me me me me me and 
everything is about me and what I want 
that beige flag would turn into a red 
flag so beige Flags fun fact about 
yourself can be light doesn't like 
chunky Tomatoes great what's your beige 
flag do you have a beige flag we all 
have beige Flags fun facts about 
ourselves right now when when you're 
dating looking out for somebody's quirks 
right could it be a beige flag could it 
turn into a red flag so keep these 
things in mind and if it's ever a 
question sign up for a consultation with 
us at Smart dating academy.com because 
these are the things that we do we 
listen to your situation for 30 or 60 
Minutes depending on what feels good to 
you and we can help you determine are 
you in a beige flag are you in a red 
flag is this your picker all over again 
so I hope this gave you a really 
thorough explanation of what a beige 
flag is versus a red flag and can a 
beige flag turn into a red flag so um if 
you like this episode rate it give us 
five stars we're looking for more great 
rating so we want to share our knowledge 
and we want to continue to do what we're 
what we've been doing for you for going 
on two years now so help us out spread 
the love share this podcast with people 
you love give us a rating listen more we 
love you and until next time I bid you a 
day filled with psychotic optimism and 
wonderful things happening to 
you 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back to this week's 
podcast I've been asked to talk about 
this term called influ dating in the 
media I just recorded a segment with the 
Today Show that's going to air around 
Valentine's Day I did some stuff on news 
Nation I think 
um I can't even remember now maybe 
um NBC news as well but inflatating 
means inflation and dating this is the 
new little buzzword and what does it 
mean it means we as daters are thinking 
about inflation as we're dating now why 
is this relevant well it's relevant for 
most people that have to live within 
means right so most of us don't have 
unlimited budgets for dating or anything 
so 
um LendingTree did the survey earlier 
like in late 2022 with some interesting 
data and so here's some interesting 
little tidbits that came out of it 77 of 
daters say dating could be easier if 
they had more money right okay great 
um and this is more common amongst men 
83 than women 73 percent regardless 32 
percent said they'd still go on a date 
even if they couldn't pay for it with 
men more likely to do so than women 
now here's what's interesting nearly one 
in five 19 
of those who are dating say they're 
going on fewer dates because of 
inflation and another 14 say that they 
are concretely trying to spend less on 
dates and even more interesting 
Millennials right and those are I think 
you know 20 something to 40 is 
Millennials 
um they're more likely to incur debt 22 
percent of them because of their dating 
spending habits right and gen Z are the 
most second most likely now why are 
people going into debt right because of 
dates well think about it if you go on 
dates and everything is done with your 
phone right you have your Apple wallet 
it's your credit card or your venmoing 
it doesn't feel like real money so a lot 
of us overspend and maybe even go into 
debt because you don't want to look like 
the cheap skate you want to look cool 
you know maybe you're going to buy a 
round of drinks for everybody at the bar 
whatever it is 
um so what do you do to stay 
within your means during dating well one 
of the things and I was talking on The 
Today Show about this today is you've 
got to make dating a conscious effort 
and conscious across the board and you 
know how I feel about conscious dating 
but dating with a budget make a budget 
right the anchor Today 
named Vicky when said that daters on 
average spend something like 3 500 a 
year on dates now some people I work 
with that sounds low for other people 
that might sound crazy 
um but that's quite a bit of money for 
most people it's almost you know 250 
bucks a month on average right which 
sounds kind of reasonable kind of right 
especially if you're going on a couple 
of dates a week so the first thing to do 
is have a budget how much of what you 
make on a monthly basis do you want to 
allocate to dates right and now when you 
have a fixed pot of money that you're 
going to allocate to dates you know what 
it does it makes you date smarter and it 
makes you date more deliberately and 
you're going to be more choosy about 
who's actually going to get you in 
person and get your dinero and get your 
cash so 
um 
I think if you're worried about how to 
date in inflation you know maybe you've 
had pay cuts at work you have been laid 
off of work or you just want to make 
sure that you're being as prudent as you 
can one of the best things to do before 
you agree to go out with anybody on a 
date is do a video date with this person 
right people need to earn an in-person 
date with you all of the apps Bumble 
hinge Tinder match everybody has video 
built into the app suggest a video date 
right 15 to 30 minutes and if that goes 
well lather rinse repeat do it again do 
it again until you're comfortable yeah 
you know I'd like to grab coffee or a 
glass of wine or a meal with this person 
but you don't have to just go from one 
video date straight to in person when we 
talk with Kathy you know about eight 
weeks ago eight ten episodes ago how 
Kathy Found Love at 71 you can find that 
in the podcast 
um she and Reuben did eight video dates 
before they actually met in person so 
their ninth date and I put that in 
quotes was their first physical date and 
he drove three hours to come and see her 
now prior to that their video dates were 
hours long they talked about everything 
under the sun they did Arthur Aaron's 36 
questions right to see if you could fall 
in love with each other so you can use 
video really effectively and you know 
what 
with video you're not driving anywhere 
you're not incurring Uber fees or cab 
fees no parking right even if you go to 
coffee in most places you're gonna have 
to drive you don't have to do that so 
video is a great way to save lots of 
money and lots of time so the next thing 
you can do are budget friendly dates 
right you can do 
you can do a lot of things I mean after 
video dates everybody during covet had 
to get used to this right we started 
doing walks okay and we had lots of 
clients after video doing walking dates 
grabbing coffee go walk around Central 
Park go walk around Lincoln Park in 
Chicago go walk around a fun new 
neighborhood in whatever City you're in 
but if you grab coffee or juice or tea 
whatever it is you're drinking there's a 
few great benefits to this as a date 
okay so not it's inexpensive number one 
right so it keeps the inflation of your 
pocketbook down now 
you're also walking around outside with 
somebody so conversation becomes a lot 
easier right you've got the saxophone 
player you've got the little kids 
running down the street the crazy 
squirrel that looks like it's gonna jump 
on your head you have lots of 
conversational context to make easy 
conversation with you know your date 
who's ostensibly a total stranger and 
studies show that when we're side by 
side versus facing each other on dates 
we tend to have more real authentic 
conversations with each other right 
think about a stranger that you might be 
sitting next to on a plane or maybe 
you've gone on a road trip with a 
colleague from work and you feel so 
comfortable talking to this person 
because you're side by side you don't 
feel somebody staring into your soul so 
you can have better conversations that 
are more fun organic and more authentic 
because you're side by side and you're 
moving when we're moving and we're a 
little stressed because it's a date we 
generate adrenaline right and adrenaline 
is kind of fight or flighty and it makes 
us potentially feel attraction so 
there's so many advantages to doing 
walking dates even though we're not in 
covid anymore I love going for walks 
even with my coaching clients that live 
in Chicago 
I go on walks with a lot of them instead 
of picking up the phone and coaching 
we'll go walk a couple of laps around 
one of the parks downtown and we'll walk 
and coach and they're so fun and so 
effective and you're also getting steps 
in what's wrong with that nothing so do 
walking dates I love those kinds of 
dates and other inexpensive dates that 
you can go on go mini golfing go to a 
golf range right what's more fun when 
you're in the in the beginning phases of 
dating somebody I remember when I 
started dating somebody in high school 
we went to play mini golf it was so fun 
super low stakes not that expensive and 
fun a little competitive and you can 
just be silly and it's a great time on a 
budget right you can go to a driving 
range if the weather's good where you 
are and something that we talked about 
today one of the things back to video 
during covid when couples were long 
distance or when couples were going on 
dates you could cook dinner together you 
could pick a menu and cook dinner and 
have the person on FaceTime you'll be 
making dinner they'll be making dinner 
then you sit down and you eat together 
and so that's something that we 
shouldn't lose track of right cooking 
together can be a really fun date not in 
the beginning if you're a smart dater 
because we don't want to be in each 
other's spaces and kind of because that 
can if you go to somebody's house and 
there's wine and there's a bed you know 
what might happen so typically we're 
having our clients not go into each 
other's houses until you're exclusive or 
nearly exclusive until it seems like 
this is really gonna stick but cooking 
something together can be a really fun 
idea and it's low budget my daughter 
who's 18 was home for Christmas break 
and she and her boyfriend made two 
holiday pies together right because 
they're both kind of broke college 
students and when they ran out of money 
they were baking cookies of course I 
funded the raw materials for the cookies 
and the pie but that's a whole nother 
story but it was way less expensive than 
them going out to go buy one piece of 
pie right they made an entire pie and 
lots of cookies now 
what's also really fun is doing fun 
things like taking dance classes 
together those are inexpensive you can 
find meetup groups that offer dance 
lessons right where you'll not only get 
you'll not only dance and generate 
adrenaline but you'll meet hopefully 
lots of fun strangers that are a little 
adventurous right dancing is not for the 
weary so finding something like that and 
even if you're a couple and listening to 
this and you want to keep your date 
night fun but you also want to adhere to 
a budget take dance lessons right like 
that go to a Meetup Group go to a lot of 
bars and clubs have dance lessons like 
salsa dance lessons free on Thursday 
evenings so look for all of those kinds 
of things and Andy and I would also go 
to free museum days in Chicago the Art 
Institute has free days so we would take 
advantage of doing those things and you 
can always look up lists on all of your 
free favorite locations when they have 
free things that you can do and if 
you're going on dates also right after 
you've done video instead of saying okay 
let's go meet out for dinner look up 
some spots that have great happy hour 
specials lots of places on off nights 
Tuesdays Wednesdays Thursdays have 
half-price drinks half price appetizers 
and for a first second or third date you 
can keep those dates to less than two 
hours and you can keep them within a 
budget if you get there a little early 
maybe 4 30 5 o'clock have the happy hour 
specials and then you're done by seven 
o'clock right and then you can go home 
and make your dinner and stay within 
your budget 
um 
one of the last things I'll tell you was 
an idea that I came up with today is 
taking your credit card points so many 
of us have loyalty points that just sit 
around and lots of credit card points 
and maybe we're not traveling but these 
points just sit around look into the 
points that you have and see what they 
can be converted into right I go to some 
restaurant chains in Chicago and when I 
look at how much I have I might have two 
hundred dollars in bonus dollars that I 
could use for a great date night with 
Andy look at the points that you're 
collecting on your credit cards on your 
loyalty points and see if you can 
convert those into points that you can 
use at restaurants on dates or to do the 
things that you love as well so remember 
to stay you know inflating I hope that 
we all date consciously we all date with 
the budget in mind make yourself a 
budget and then stick to your budget do 
video right and the more video you do 
the more Discerning you can be with the 
people that are going to actually earn 
you in person then you can go on the 
Walking dates you can go to happy hour 
dates you can pick free museum nights go 
play mini golf go to a carnival oh and 
one other thing 
and she loved this I said when we first 
got married we loved Modern Art and we 
couldn't afford 25 or 30 000 for a giant 
piece of art and we like these big 
canvases that were like four feet by six 
feet so what we did is we started buying 
canvases at art stores and acrylic 
paints and we started painting our own 
canvases and we got into this so much 
that like Friday nights we would come 
home after work and we would both change 
into our painting clothes and we would 
just start painting and it was so fun 
and to this day we have many of the 
paintings hanging in our house that we 
did back in the day so that's a super 
fun thing that you can do together as a 
couple or even on a date grab some 
paints grab some little canvases and be 
creative together stimulate yourself in 
really good creative ways and dates can 
get more interesting and not break your 
your budget so if your budget allows ha 
ha get do a consultation with us maybe 
see if you're a candidate for our VIP 
one-on-one coaching program because 
that's where you will make serious 
progress and as always follow me on 
Instagram for more free tips and until 
next week I will see you soon 


I've been asked to talk about this term 
called inflatating inflating means 
inflation and dating it means we as 
daters are thinking about inflation as 
we're dating now why is this relevant 
well it's relevant most of us don't have 
unlimited budgets for dating or anything 
19 
of those who are dating say they're 
going on fewer dates because of 
inflation and another 14 say that they 
are concretely trying to spend less on 
dates the first thing to do is have a 
budget it makes you date smarter and it 
makes you date more deliberately and 
you're going to be more choosy about 
who's actually going to get you in 
person and get your dinero and get your 
cash 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love okay so when 
you guys have the same questions 17 
times I figure it is my duty and 
obligation to you dear listener to 
answer your question 
people are all over the question what is 
love bombing have I been love bombed am 
I a love bomber and I have a guest today 
Dr Catherine Helm who's a professor of 
psychology and director of graduate 
programs in counseling at Lewis 
University so guys she's a heavy hitter 
and she is not only going to define the 
hell out of what is love bombing but we 
are going to compare that and contrast 
that to what is a love bomber versus a 
love Seeker so put your seat belts on 
y'all because we are ready for a ride 
and with that Catherine welcome to the 
Smart dating Academy podcast we are so 
happy to have you here thank you Bella 
I'm so glad to be here 
all right let's jump right into this we 
hear the word we've talked a lot you and 
I talked about narcissists what's a 
narcissist what's just you know someone 
who's a jerk or an and we right 
but tell us about 
his love bombing 
yeah see love mommy is interesting 
because you know it when you felt it 
right so the original term was coined in 
the 1970s and it was used to get people 
involved with the cult wait what yeah 
what wait what love is yes meant to get 
people into a cult that is insane it is 
it is and if you've ever gone on a date 
with someone new you know especially 
very early in the relationship and all 
of a sudden they're ridiculously 
complementary they shower you with gifts 
right before you ever even really know 
each other you know that's a good sign 
you've been love bombed 
wow and 
I mean let me ask you this 
how do you know 
if someone is just clueless and they've 
read too many Romance Books let's say 
it's a dude just for example and let's 
say he's he's just coming in he's coming 
in hot yeah and he's a romance he's a 
romantic or is he a love bummer like how 
like what's the difference how do we 
tell oh so that's a great question right 
and then sometimes the answer is in the 
eye of the beholder right so let me kind 
of sort of unpack this a little bit and 
talk even more about what love bombing 
is so some of those characteristics so 
you know love bombing the love bomber is 
often more interested in themselves than 
the other person it's often about the 
image right and it the love bombing Act 
is really designed to get you know the 
other person indebted to them so they 
come across as all consuming you know 
they seek to completely dominate the 
other person's social world so it's not 
just gifts and excessive compliments but 
it's really about power and control 
right and once those you know gifts are 
coming in excessive compliments and you 
know this person thinks you're wonderful 
um but one of the pieces that's missing 
right so we're talking today about love 
bombing versus love seeking right so the 
romantic guy as you described was kind 
of clueless but not a love bomber would 
be open to input 
okay okay that's a very good distinction 
so give me a scenario Catherine where he 
is open for input like tell our 
listeners because I'm sure we're all 
sitting here going have I been love bomb 
was that love bombery ask whatever the 
adjective is or is this just someone 
who's clueless and trying too hard 
right right so here's here's a scenario 
you know Bella I'm going to ask you when 
you go to a restaurant 
does your husband order for you or do 
you order for yourself 
I order for myself and I'll say after 25 
years of marriage I personally sort of 
wish that he could order for me but 
that's a whole sidebar discussion like 
do you do you know what I would eat in 
general like my girlfriends could all 
order for me right but matters I'd be 
joking I'm joking but no at 100 he would 
let me order he would give me agency to 
order what I wanted to order what if 
you're on a first date with him and he's 
not your husband of course and he orders 
for you 
I would be like oh that's interesting 
are you gonna eat all of that because 
that's not what I wanted yes so that's a 
sign that you've been loved Bob you 
weren't asked right it's not like it's a 
French restaurant you know and you don't 
speak French and he does right so it's 
really about power and control 
um the love bomber feels good about 
himself or herself 
when they do all of these acts it's 
about them it's not about you so one of 
the ways to know if you're being love 
bomb is does this person take input from 
you or do they just assume what you want 
so love bombing you know the person's 
making all kinds of assumptions that 
they're not checking out with you 
boundaries are being broken and most 
people are really uncomfortable with it 
okay I love this so if now if we snap 
back to you I'm on a first date with 
let's say it's Andy my husband or 
someone else just anybody and if he says 
you know we will have uh you know the 
pate and the foie gras and blah blah 
blah now if I'm a little confused at 
this point I could say 
um I'd like to also add a couple of 
things to that now a good response would 
be he's like oh my God absolutely I come 
here so often that these are like the 
two best things but absolutely order 
something else that would be a potential 
that would get him out of the red flag 
love bombery category maybe and put him 
into the hmm he takes input and didn't 
you know blow a lid about this that's 
right and so you you know when your 
first dating someone you want it or most 
people want it to be somewhat 
collaborative right and so it's about 
learning what those boundaries are 
together everybody makes mistakes even 
the love Seekers make mistakes right so 
going back to our you know good-hearted 
guy who really wants to make an 
impression and he's let's say a hopeless 
romantic you might see similar things 
you might see you know these 
over-the-top gestures but usually the 
person will check in with you right and 
if you're feeling uncomfortable and you 
say something they'll feel really like 
oh my gosh I can't believe I did that 
I'm so sorry you know but usually what 
happens with the love bombers they might 
get angry 
you know this is the ugly side of love 
right 
um they might you know call you 
ungrateful 
outing Behavior oh so if he ordered the 
foie gras and the Pate let's say and 
those aren't my favorite things if I 
said could I add a veggie or two to that 
he would cross his arms and he would be 
mad at me 
could very well be for sure but you're 
going to tend to get a negative response 
with the love bombers you know love 
bombers because remember the act of Love 
bombing is not about you it's about the 
other person kind of showing off 
dominating 
um when those efforts are not met with 
like oh my gosh that's amazing you're 
wonderful they tend to get angry or feel 
superficially hurt or get offended 
become defensive 
and Catherine do normal Mortals also 
love bombers this exclusively in the 
category of people that are narcissistic 
it's a good sign of narcissism okay 
however you know I think we're talking 
about an important thing because 
sometimes it is difficult to know who is 
your hopeless romantic that just kind of 
got it wrong right versus Your Love 
bombers so what happens with the love 
bomber is over time those gestures dry 
up very quickly 
oh okay so they come on strong they come 
on very very strong and it's almost like 
there's you know like with narcissism 
you know with the narcissist you have to 
feed the narcissist constantly right so 
with a love bomber you know you can 
never be appreciative enough you can 
never be grateful enough 
um right so they are a cousin of the 
narcissist well they're they're often 
one in the same they're one of the 
narcissists of um love bomb first 
and you say yeah and I'm I'm thinking 
about our conversations and you say love 
bombers like this is all like they're 
coming on strong they're filling up your 
cup overflowing your cup but it's meant 
to entrap you potentially to dominate 
control talk a little bit about that 
like what's the end game yeah so the end 
game is to control you 
the end game is to show dominance and 
some psychologists believe it's even 
indicative of a cycle of abuse right 
where the love bomber can do things like 
isolate you from your friends and family 
over time right because the love bomber 
wants to be the Center of Your World 
they may get offended when you go out 
with your friends without you know he or 
she but they want to be your center of 
everything which is really unhealthy 
and it sounds suffocating yes so in the 
beginning these gestures maybe you feel 
special right you feel like wow this 
person is really into me you know I've 
never had this before but you know those 
gestures don't stop they might get even 
more and more extravagant and you get 
really uncomfortable with them but the 
love bomber is not interested in your 
feelings and they're usually not very 
good listeners either 
so is there something that you can tell 
you know dear listener like if this 
happens you might be being love bombed 
like are there certain phrases you hear 
certain Telltale things that they do 
like straight out of the love bombers 
Playbook yes so they say I love you 
really quickly they might start talking 
about a long-term commitment very early 
in the relationship 
um they're gonna feel too good to be 
true they're excessive way over the top 
constantly complimenting you and again 
what happens is usually people who are 
being loved bomb eventually it gets 
really uncomfortable right and so in 
dating you know and belly you talk about 
this all the time you want to pay 
attention to your instincts if something 
doesn't feel very good the chances are 
it's not very good they're too good to 
be true 
and you know where it gets so gray 
Catherine you're right I mean we we work 
on this a lot with our clients at Smart 
dating Academy it's when we come in when 
let's say men and women will come to us 
and they're cups they're metaphorical 
your cup is so empty and it seems like 
there's a hole in the bottom of it like 
Ain't Nothing Gonna Fill that cup up 
right and suddenly somebody comes along 
with a big piping hot you know 
vat of coffee and they're just pouring 
you a bottomless Cup right and for and 
for people that have been 
in abusive relationships or they've been 
in relationships with avoidance where 
they've been iced out or stonewalled or 
had no communication had no physical 
affection Love bombing almost seems like 
it comes straight out of the movies like 
this is what love is supposed to be like 
it's supposed to be passionate and 
extravagant and big right from the 
beginning and this is where so many 
people I think get trapped well it's 
like sex in the movies I mean it doesn't 
really look like that does it Ah hell no 
no like everybody has an orgasm at the 
same time it's like the perfect 
Orchestra no bodily fluids nothing 
that's not real and the love bomber is 
not actually real either right and soon 
they begin to make demands of you too 
but I want to go back to something you 
said there's a difference between 
filling your cup and over filling your 
cup and the love bomber constantly seeks 
to overfill your cup 
and then the gestures dry up really 
quickly they just stop 
wow it's like they're trying to take you 
off your game and it's like uber 
seductive and then it stops and you're 
like Hey where's the coffee flowing out 
of that flowing out of that big carafe 
and it's like it was imaginary coffee it 
was never real that's exactly right it's 
exactly right and again the little 
farmer doesn't want your input 
they don't actually care about you and 
don't seek to know who you are you're 
again going back to our hopeless 
romantic you know who just kind of gets 
it wrong or maybe gets the boundaries 
wrong this person actually cares and 
they're open to making change 
and collaborating with you 
I love that and that's a perfect segue 
we were talking about love bombers 
versus love Seekers so love bombing 
let's just suffice it to say is wrong 
it's bad it might feel good in that 
moment it's like you know what people 
might describe is like a hit of heroin 
or cocaine I don't know I've never done 
a drug I have no clue but that it feels 
really really good that instant hit but 
then it feels really really bad the next 
day so it sounds like if love bombing 
makes you feel like you're on top of the 
world and it feels almost too good to be 
true most likely it is too good to be 
true absolutely it is absolutely too 
good to be true so while you're feeling 
really good at the moment 
you have to typically remember what 
might come next and when those gestures 
disappear so our love Seekers you know 
our hopeless Romantics those gestures 
typically don't disappear and then they 
use input they may notice that you like 
something like I like the color green 
and so maybe they give you you know 
something that's green that you really 
like wear a love bomber 
just care what you like 
because it's about them it's about the 
gesture 
and if a love bomber does listen to what 
you like and deliver that it's still 
just a tactic of manipulation it has to 
throw you off your game if I I'm gonna 
devour you I'm gonna listen to you like 
I have never listened to anybody before 
because I want to get to know you know 
what you love so I can push your buttons 
and control you yeah so you say it's 
emotionally manipulative it's 
performative these are performing 
gestures and these gestures bring them 
the attention that they need it's not 
really about you 
right right and they just want to get 
what you want so let's talk about the 
good people let's talk about a love 
Seeker what is a love Seeker well and I 
don't know I'd like to think we're all 
love Seekers but amen I am really in a 
dating relationship you know this is 
somebody who you know wants to feel good 
about themselves and about you and about 
the relationship so they're interested 
in getting to know who you are they're 
interested in building a genuine 
connection with you right and possibly 
even and hopefully a longer term 
commitment but again the difference 
between love bomber love Seekers a love 
seeker can be more collaborative they 
take input and they're interested into 
getting to know who you are hopefully 
our love Seekers have a solid sense of 
self a love bomber typically does not 
have a solid sense itself right yeah so 
let's say if I'm a dater 
and I write in my profile my favorite 
flowers are 
hydrangeas and peonies and if my first 
date shows up with the cute little 
bouquet of hydrangeas and peonies that 
that isn't necessarily being love bombed 
is it because I can guess a lot of 
people will go okay is this opening up 
the floodgates to somebody who's gonna 
love by me like what do you say to 
someone like that well when you said 
that I just thought oh how sweet right 
right one bouquet of flowers on a first 
date I mean wouldn't most of us be 
Charmed by that super Charmed if you go 
on a date with someone and then the next 
day you know 
buckets of flour start showing up then 
you might be being Love Bob right yeah 
right the appropriate gesture versus the 
over the top gesture is a big difference 
and if the if you're a romantic guy or 
girl is over the top and they get 
feedback like oh this is too much 
they'll dial it back 
yeah exactly and this is a little bit of 
a side note guys that are listening to 
this but if someone seems like it might 
be a little much but they're a love 
Seeker this is where your adeptness as 
an emotionally healthy dater is going to 
come into play if something seems a 
little much to you don't flip out on the 
person don't come off I always tell our 
clients assume positive intent in 
people's actions before you take the 
negative story right so if somebody 
gives you a bouquet of flowers let's say 
we'll go back to me and if it's 
hydrangeas and peonies and if I feel 
like wow that was like a big bouquet it 
wasn't a little bouquet like it took up 
the table big right now at that moment 
let's assume that the boy is open for 
input and he's a love Seeker you can say 
this was so amazing and so so thoughtful 
and it's like incredibly extravagant and 
I'm touched and just know I would love 
to go out with you again and you do not 
need to do these things all the time I'm 
so Charmed and I love this so you can 
deliver that message with white gloves 
versus crossing your arms and saying 
that was a little much I think I don't 
need that again right because guess what 
you're not going to get you ain't gonna 
get the bouquet of flowers you're not 
going to get the second date because 
your feelings hurt right so when in 
doubt assume positive intent deliver 
your message with Grace now how do you 
know okay well if I deliver my message 
with Grace remember what Catherine said 
the love bomber does not take input 
he'll be like are you ungrateful you 
don't appreciate that I did this are you 
telling me what to do for the next 
several days 
danger Will Robinson that is a love 
bomber in the room 
yeah and you know here's the other thing 
too the love Seeker also likes to 
receive romantic gestures the love 
bomber not so much 
oh interesting so a lot of bombers they 
just want a bomb they don't want to be 
bummed no they don't want to be Bob 
because they that's not they get it's 
about power and control of you 
that's their game that's if they don't 
want you to play in their game no you 
don't get to play their game nope 
so only one person has the baseball 
fella oh oh okay I was gonna say maybe I 
would have to bring him a bigger bouquet 
of flowers the next 
yeah see what happens when you do that 
oh my gosh that is 
um so 
how do you know I guess you know I I'm 
thinking to myself to give people this 
Crystal Clarity you know you've been 
love bombed if it feels like it's too 
much and the person doesn't react well 
to you even if you deliver your message 
with love and assuming positive intent 
right and so let me ask you what should 
you do 
if this sounds resonant and if you feel 
like oh my god I think I'm in a new 
dating relationship with a love bomber 
what do you do 
yeah that's a great question so one you 
know I think you have to be honest and 
say I'm not ready for this I appreciate 
the gestures you know but this is kind 
of too much for me and pretty soon 
actually it'll come to an end the person 
may get very angry but once those 
gestures aren't appreciated the love 
bombers not being fed 
right and so oftentimes they may go off 
and find somebody else another victim 
yes yes now in you know let's talk a 
little bit about the dark side or the 
ugly side of Love bombing right it's 
indicative of narcissism sometimes it's 
indicative of abuse and sometimes the 
love bomber gets really angry especially 
if those gestures have gone on for a 
while I spent all this money on you who 
do you think you are right and so pretty 
soon the veneer comes off and all of 
those over-the-top gestures stuff and 
you will know that you've been love bomb 
because the love bomber will not 
continue it endlessly they can't for 
something no 
no and is there a point Catherine where 
the love bombing stops and it switches 
like what is that point 
yeah and it might be different for every 
love bomber but remember that the love 
Barbara is a very jealous person they 
don't want other people to compete for 
your attention right so one way to stop 
a love bomber is to maintain your own 
active life you don't just shut things 
down right and start focusing only on 
this one person 
that's another way to know you've been 
loved Bob because if you start giving 
things up you're feeding love bombing 
behavior and you're basically saying 
look this is okay I'm uncomfortable with 
this even if you are not 
yeah and you know it's funny like the 
tightrope walk which I know you're you 
and I are familiar with with the work 
that we do is you know a lot of the 
research points to the fact that men 
fall in love faster and harder than 
women do right we're more Discerning it 
takes us longer and so and so I work 
with this with our coaching clients all 
the time at Smart dating Academy it's 
like what is you know 
it's okay that he wants to get exclusive 
with you sooner than you want to it's 
okay that he might invite you to his 
house in Cabo it's okay that he you know 
brings you pretty earrings right but 
what you have to put the boundaries 
around it and you have to say that is 
such a beautiful gesture that you gave 
me these diamond earrings and I would 
love to accept them at some point when 
our relationship is exclusive you know 
and then you can give that person the 
hurdles maybe it's I would you know and 
take the accountability on yourself I 
don't want to rush into something and 
while this is incredibly lovely let's 
hold on and when somebody that's good 
for you is going to respond to that and 
they're gonna say okay you know a couple 
of episodes ago dear listener if you 
heard we told the story of the 15-day a 
rule and we Catherine for if you're not 
familiar with this we have people go 
slow and steady they build their dating 
funnels and we're not getting exclusive 
till we've gone on 15 to 20 dates with 
the same person this is while we're 
currently dating other people and so 
there are times where people will tell 
me well what do I do if this person 
wants you know he's inviting me to come 
over for dinner 
um by the way I love that rule I love 
that and and this is the thing and 
here's and it comes back down to the 
same thing a guy will say listen 
Catherine you're so amazing you're a mom 
you're a kick-ass PhD you teach you're 
in clinic you've got kids who's taking 
care of you I want to make you dinner on 
Saturday night and again our empty cups 
are like waiting to be filled fill up 
that wine glass oh yes yes yes so you're 
gonna make me dinner how amazing is that 
right but what I tell 
clients is look you were walking into 
that person's territory there's a bottle 
of wine maybe two 
it's his space there's a bed there's a 
couch we all know what the happy ending 
can to that can be and suddenly you wake 
up and you're like oh my God how did 
this happen the best thing to do is to 
stay out of those situations where 
someone might be trying to take care of 
you but they could turn into situations 
that get dicey for you if you don't want 
to move that fast so if somebody says I 
want to cook you dinner just say I would 
love that maybe we can talk about that a 
month from now as our relationship grows 
and you know but maybe what we can do 
instead this weekend would you want to 
go wine tasting at this great new place 
around the corner right so you're 
describing exactly what we're talking 
about uh being able to accept input and 
establishing healthy boundaries there 
are no healthy boundaries with a love 
bomber but with a love Seeker there can 
be a discussion about boundaries and if 
that person really wants to get to know 
you they are going to be receptive to 
taking your time look we all can follow 
up quickly we can all have very strong 
feelings but it really takes a long time 
to get to know someone so slow your role 
right but there is no swinging rule with 
the love bomber absolutely none and 
that's how you know are you dealing with 
a love Seeker maybe even an overzealous 
love Seeker or you're dealing with a 
love bomber 
I love that the overzealous love Seeker 
but that's okay the overzealous love 
seeker can be put back into his or her 
sandbox right it's okay and women can do 
that too right like oh I'm in a bacon 
the casserole then tomorrow I'm gonna 
bring over some homemade lemonade and 
some cookies and then I'm gonna you know 
shower them with my three amazing Apple 
rhubarb and apricot pies it's like whoa 
slow your roll feels a little feels a 
little excessive right that's right and 
here's the thing ladies and Gentlemen 
people need to earn you okay so don't 
feel the need 
to do these grandiose gestures either 
right I love that people need to earn 
you I love that they need to earn you 
they need to earn your story they need 
to earn making dinner for you they need 
to in a sense 
earn the fact that they can love you and 
give you gifts and get to know you first 
right and there's so much Beauty in that 
they're a healthy person is able to do 
that a healthy person will say to you 
would it be okay if I brought you some 
flowers from my garden would it be okay 
if I baked you a pie because I'm Gonna 
Bake one for my best friend and I 
thought I'm gonna see you on Saturday 
and you know would would you be okay 
with that you can ask for permission 
right so that you don't seem like a love 
bomber but still do nice things because 
we all want nice things done for us and 
this is such a tightrope and this is why 
I wanted to have Dr Catherine on the 
show to talk about sometimes it's not so 
cut and dry right and these are ways I 
don't want you to be afraid to receive 
the love and the romance that you have 
so wanted for so long and I certainly 
don't want you to be afraid to show your 
love and to show and to be generous with 
your time or your things but again do it 
within scope with communication yeah 
it's a negotiation and you know you have 
a love Seeker who's willing to negotiate 
the boundaries with you right all of us 
have missed steps but it's about 
figuring it out together 
and if you're not working together to 
figure it out a love bomber has no 
concept of working together it's about 
domination but your love Seeker will 
work with you 
you know Catherine I don't know if you 
saw this documentary on Netflix a couple 
of months ago but it sort of swept the 
world and it was called the Tinder 
swindler 
and if you haven't seen it it's very 
worthwhile because this dude built three 
different women and I think ultimately 
they found him guilty of bilking and 
defrauding 10 different women to the 
tune of six million dollars wow and he 
positioned himself he said his name was 
Simon leviath and that he was the 
diamond Prince and that his family was a 
very wealthy family in in Israel that 
was in the diamond business and his 
business was very dangerous and you know 
I have a lot of enemies and so but what 
he would do the opening one of the 
opening scenes was he went on a date 
with the girl a pretty girl they swiped 
right on each other and he set up the 
drinks I think it was at the Mandarin 
Oriental in some beautiful European city 
and she shows up there and you know he 
was you know acting all cool and he's 
like listen you know uh 
I am a big businessman and I'm the 
Prince of diamonds and of course they're 
in this extravagant setting and he's 
ordering everything off the menus like 
do you want to you know I've I've got a 
jet and I'm leaving for Croatia for the 
evening would you like to come with me 
and of course she was like 
um 
I threw all good judgment aside yeah and 
said I texted my girlfriends one of whom 
said this dude might chop you up into a 
thousand pieces and dump you in the 
river sounds a little crazy but our 
Basic Instincts what she said is we all 
have a little bit of the Disney Princess 
inside of us that thinks that Prince 
Charming does exist for me and that he's 
going to come along and I thought maybe 
my prince charming had arrived and it 
put Goosebumps on every cell of my body 
to hear that and did she go to Croatia 
yes did she sleep with him yes 
she was love bound yes and it felt good 
for a minute 
oh and it felt amazing the extravagance 
with which he treated these women the 
finest hotels the finest gifts he would 
take them shopping they would have these 
luxurious meals to the point where he 
was spending fifty to eighty thousand 
dollars a day 
so I think that's a great point because 
like what is the motivation someone 
would have to spend all of that money 
into lavish you with gifts when they 
don't know you like I totally have to 
watch this so thank you for for letting 
me know about it but you know he doesn't 
know her 
he and what and it ended up being kind 
of a giant Ponzi scheme where he would 
be love bombing you but then he had told 
me in the background I'm the love bomber 
that I I got love bombed by him last 
month but now I'm reeled in and then he 
would say 
um Bella listen you know I have a lot of 
enemies and they've just shot My 
Bodyguard I'm trying to get to a safe 
location but my advisors tell me I have 
to turn off all my credit cards right 
now because those things are trackable 
and my enemies will know where I am 
could you send me twenty thousand 
dollars so what I don't know is that and 
I'm in love with him now I've been 
carpet bombed for a month and I'm like 
oh absolutely let me take out three 
payday loans because where am I going to 
find twenty thousand dollars right as a 
30 year old woman which is what these 
women were and they would leverage 
themselves beyond belief and he would 
just have them send more and more money 
now what I didn't know is I was sending 
the love of my life Simon money because 
Simon was love bombing you Catherine so 
it was a Ponzi scheme he would take from 
Bella to give to Catherine from love 
bombing with a Twist love bombing with 
the twist so so yeah it was it's a 
really amazing dark documentary to show 
that even smart beautiful women will 
fall prey to this and why because it 
appeals to our most Basic Instincts that 
we can be rescued because we've been 
taught this since we were little girls 
know as one of the Hallmarks of Love on 
this 
is too good to be true it's not real 
it's not real even and so it's all about 
the fantasy create the fantasy of you're 
so wonderful even though I don't really 
know you so I'm going to shower you with 
everything and tell you how amazing you 
are and that is unsustainable 
yeah it's and it's and it's seductive 
and so and so I hope that this chat 
helps you guys to understand is this a 
legit person or is this someone who's 
not legit and legit meaning 
is this person just a little clueless 
just a little enthusiastic just a little 
overzealous and you know brings you the 
things that seem like a little much or 
is he actually trying to manipulate and 
control you to ultimately kind of 
insidiously take over your life right 
because love bombing is about entrapping 
you and dominating you and controlling 
you so 
um I'm becoming the Center of Your World 
right so that you have he wants to be 
the son 
you know one thing we forgot to talk 
about the love bomber also made talk 
stuff about your friends and family 
little bits little bits of criticism 
here and there because once again that 
entrapment as you just said endears you 
to him or her oh so they try so they 
might say you know 
I don't think your best friend really 
likes you 
yeah and it might start off much more 
subtle 
much more subtle and then you kind of 
get more into more in-depth criticism 
um 
it's a trap it's a trap they're Throwing 
Shade it's a trap 
trap 
it's a trap so nobody should be 
criticizing or condemning or throwing 
shade at the people in your world 
because it could just be a trap to get 
you to cut your ties 
big old red flag that's so interesting 
so so interesting and Catherine is there 
anything else that you want to share 
with us that you know we haven't picked 
up on or any last words of wisdom that 
you want to share with our listener 
yeah your love Seeker will have some 
vulnerability that's real Your Love 
bomber will manufacture vulnerability 
once again as a form of entrapment and 
it's fake 
oh can you give me like give us paint a 
little picture of what good 
vulnerability is versus bad yeah like 
something typical yeah so going back to 
your example of the show like I now need 
to watch right you know where you've 
been love bombed and he's spending fifty 
thousand dollars on you and then all of 
a sudden he has a crisis right and you 
know that was a Ponzi scheme but pretend 
it's not a Ponzi scheme and it's now 
about give me back what I gave you and 
even more now that you're endeared to me 
now that I have you right it's about 
again power and control so fake 
vulnerability tends to be over the top 
right and they're usually lies wrapped 
up in that 
oh wow you know I don't know if this is 
relevant but I know we had a client that 
went on a third date with someone who up 
until that point seemed legit they went 
out for a couple of nice dinners nothing 
over the top and on the third date he 
basically said you know well aren't you 
gonna have sex with me you like this is 
what you do now yeah I bought you dinner 
we're like this is not what you do and 
this is not what anybody does and this 
is certainly nothing anybody should be 
asking for and it really took her off 
her game for a couple of weeks and we're 
like it's a one-off yeah this is bad on 
him not of you you said no you caught 
him and then he proceeded to berate her 
and because of course you're uppity 
you're haughty you're a crude nobody 
else is gonna want you you think you're 
so good but actually you're and that is 
case in point exactly what Dr Catherine 
has described to us right she said I 
don't want to sleep with you I'm I want 
to wait until I'm in a committed 
exclusive relationship because I'm being 
coached by Smart dating Academy and the 
dude went off well it's like you owe me 
now right you owe me so all of this 
over-the-top Behavior comes at a cost 
and the cost is usually you owe me which 
is why your 15-day rule is amazing 
because it takes time to get to know 
someone and that really time is the best 
teller of who is your love Seeker versus 
Your Love bomber oh amen we are so on 
the same page I tell my clients there is 
no substitute for time in the dating 
World none we want to move the hands of 
time so fast we want to get exclusive 
after three dates we want that instant 
gratification we want that instant 
Hollywood or Harlequin boyfriend but the 
reason to wait and to take things slowly 
is true character is revealed when 
pressure is applied when a bad situation 
comes up everybody is great when the sun 
is shining remember you are dating the 
representative of that person in the 
beginning right long term you know maybe 
their meal doesn't come out right at a 
restaurant and they ask for dressing on 
the side who does that Bella Gandhi and 
maybe the dressing came on the salad how 
does that person react do they flip out 
do they berate the server or do they say 
you know what would it be an 
inconvenience to remake that like yes 
and yeah and that's it right and it's 
how that person reacts to even small 
little incidents like that which is very 
telling of somebody's character long 
term is somebody's Behavior consistent 
over time trust is built Often by 
consistency in multiple settings right 
is the person consistent I love that is 
the person consistent over multiple 
settings that meaning he's really nice 
to you or she's really nice to you but 
not nice to the people around you not 
nice when talking about others yes does 
the person do what they say they're 
going to do when they say they're going 
to do it most of the time 
exactly we're all human and we all 
forget things or flake out on things or 
make mistakes but then do you own your 
mistake yes exactly and love bombers and 
narcissists don't 
oh I am I am just love and information 
bombed by this segment I mean this is 
information about and I love this so 
much love bombers versus love Seekers we 
all want a love seeker and Catherine 
thank you for being here with us and 
thank you for having me Bella oh my gosh 
and my dear listener I wish you you know 
I am your Fairy Godmother of love and 
remember a couple of episodes ago seven 
ways you're gonna find love this summer 
I want you to get psychotically 
optimistic about your dating life and 
know that you are now well armed with 
the information about what is a love 
bomber versus a love Seeker so your 
Chief psychotic Optimist is telling you 
love will come to you it's a when it's 
not an if and may he or she be a love 
seeker and not a love bomber 
see you next week 


[Music] 
it is 
my duty and obligation to you dear 
listener to answer your question 
people are all over the question 
what is 
love bombing i have a guest today dr 
katherine helm what is love bombing love 
mommy is interesting because you know it 
when you felt it if you've ever gone on 
a date with someone new especially very 
early in the relationship and all of a 
sudden they are ridiculously 
complimentary they shower you with gifts 
right before you ever even really know 
each other you know that's a good sign 
you've been loved bombed katherine do 
normal mortals also love bombers this 
exclusively in the category of people 
that are narcissistic you know with the 
narcissist you have to feed the 
narcissist constantly with a love bomber 
you can never be appreciative enough you 
can never be grateful enough 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart taters welcome back to the podcast 
I'm so excited to talk to you today 
about the best way to start and end a 
date 
I would love to give you guys multiple 
choices as to what this would be if I 
could say the best way to start a date 
is a a handshake B sitting on somebody's 
lap see a hug or d none of the above I 
would love to see what you guys guessed 
so the answer is it's a hug 
this is not a business meeting 
it's a date and yes it's a stranger and 
yes I know that there are risks because 
there's lots of germs floating around uh 
pre-pandemic pandemic and post pandemic 
but if you are dating there's two ways 
to do hugs okay let me tell you why you 
should hug you should hug because 
it connotes warmth it connotes sincerity 
it connotes this is a personal meeting 
and it connotes that you aren't afraid 
of affection a handshake is super 
standard in our culture for business 
meetings and immediately when somebody 
sticks their hand out to shake your hand 
right our instinct is to reach our Hand 
by back and shake their hand instead I 
do this I'm a dating coach I'm a love 
coach so people extend their hand to me 
nine times out of ten whether it's a 
personal meeting or a professional 
meeting I'll say you know what I'm a 
hugger is that okay and they're like oh 
my gosh absolutely I have never ever 
ever been turned down for a hug when 
I've said I'm a hugger versus a 
handshake when I worked in the corporate 
world when I've had my own business when 
I'm at cocktail parties so there are 
times I want to handshake but it's very 
rare so you can if somebody wants to 
shake your hand you can try I'm a hugger 
is that okay and give them a hug instead 
it just shows people that you're warm 
you're engaging and that this is a date 
okay now let's talk about types of hugs 
I did Steve Harvey's show for Seven 
Seasons while it was on air and some of 
the funniest stuff that we did on the 
show was on The Cutting Room floor right 
because that's how TV production goes 
especially in daytime talk but we talked 
about on one episode 
starting the date with a hug and Steve 
said I want you guys to think about what 
Bella's saying start the date with a hug 
but think about the cousin hug and I 
started laughing like what is the cousin 
hog he's like it's how you would hug 
your cousin right you like your cousin 
you're excited you give your cousin a 
warm hug out of friendliness but it's a 
cousin hug right it's not a romantic 
intimate hug where you're touching 
pelvises and I of course started 
blushing and laughing so the cousin hug 
is the right way to think about hugging 
somebody when you get on a date pretend 
it's a cousin that you like and give 
this person a cousin hug if they say yes 
it's okay to do that so now if you're 
doing a video date a cute change up to 
this is turning on the date because you 
know it's Smart dating Academy we're big 
fans of the video date as soon as you 
get online what you can do is oh put 
your hands in a hug like oh I'm giving 
you a cyber hug because I'm a hugger 
super cute way to just chill the 
tensions of a video date as well which 
can be awkward so 
um that's what I would tell you about 
the best way to start and end a date the 
same way is with the hug do the cousin 
hug be excited and this also can get you 
out of if somebody wants to go in for a 
premature kiss nope just say I'm a 
hugger and give them a hug so I hope 
this helps you to have better dates have 
warmer dates have more positive dates 
and as always join the Smart dating 
Academy 
come in for a one-on-one consult we'll 
teach you how to hug yes we have taught 
people how to hug in our coaching 
practice because so many of us weren't 
taught to hug when we were little you 
don't want to do the hug with the 
padding on the back either I meant to 
mention that right so that's not a great 
hug it's sort of like wow I'm really 
awkward and I'm patting you on the back 
at the same time so join 
um join some art dating Academy come in 
if you need to learn how to hug haha 
join uh our database by filling out any 
contact form on our newsletter follow us 
on Instagram at smartdatingacademy and I 
can't wait for you to hear our next 
episode if you love it please review it 
please write something give us five 
stars little podcasters I'm little five 
foot two we need your love we need your 
support so thank you and have a great 
day 


my guess today is 
truly 
the definition of a badass woman you 
know my argument in all of my work is 
don't do what you love don't follow your 
passion instead do what you are i think 
there's power in this not just in your 
career but in your love life and it took 
so much self-discovery and so many 
layers to get back into the heart of who 
i am 
and carry that not just into my career 
and my love life but everywhere that i 
go and in my work in so many ways so 
it's changing your mindset around this 
which is what i love you can 
take chances guys you can experiment 
look at finding 
the job that you love the career that 
you love the person that you love you're 
going to have to go through iterations 
and take chances and not say well i want 
the third person i date to become my 
husband it's not going to happen 


[Music] 
this is the episode that you've all been 
waiting for and i've been waiting for 
two rachel czar sex and relationship 
therapist at spark therapy what do you 
tell people about when it's okay or not 
okay to have sex for the first time 
therapist mantra it depends um but i 
think when we're talking about sex with 
a new partner it's all about 
intentionality and i think what happens 
is too often people get stuck in these 
kind of rules the one that i hear most 
often is the third date rule right oh 
don't get me going on the third game 
because first of all it sets these 
expectations it puts a ton of pressure 
and the problem is that when we're 
dating it's really more about feelings 
than it is about rules and logic and we 
just have to acknowledge that sex comes 
with a lot of feelings if it's not a yes 
yes yes it's uh how about we give it 
another date 


yesterday was the dating Super Bowl so 
in honor of the busiest online dating 
day of the year I am doing five more 
mini episodes 
today who pays for the date Tuesday what 
do you say to that hot stranger and how 
do you start a conversation Wednesday 
how do you take things slow so that the 
last Thursday what if I'm afraid of 
commitment and Friday will be the best 
way to start and end a date and it might 
be different than what you think so I 
can't wait to see you and I can't wait 
to hear your thoughts on this week's 
amazing mini episodes 
foreign 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators hi so good to be with you 
again in this mini podcast week and 
today I'm going to tell you and answer 
the question about why are you afraid of 
commitment or maybe why are there so 
many people out there that are afraid of 
commitment and what are some things that 
we can do to figure that out in steps 
that we can take now 
um what I'm telling you is the advice 
that we give at Smart dating Academy we 
are date coaches with a lot of 
experience we aren't therapists we're 
not psychiatrists but we understand a 
lot about how fear of commitment and 
attachment issues can play out in the 
dating world and we've successfully held 
the hands of many people in the dating 
world and the dating process that either 
have fear of commitment that we can help 
to alleviate and lay those fears by 
meeting somebody that's actually good 
for you and on the flip side we help a 
lot of our clients stay away from people 
that have fears of commitments and 
identifying those people early so that 
we don't waste time and get heartbroken 
by somebody that is afraid of commitment 
now the question you might ask yourself 
is you know especially if you feel like 
you're afraid of commitment or you know 
more mysteriously if somebody that 
you've fallen in love with is afraid of 
commitment what could it be right 
there's a variety of reasons right I 
mean the obvious reason maybe and this 
is a very light reason maybe this person 
doesn't want to commit to you because 
they're truly not into you right and 
this is the kind of person that maybe 
dates you and says I'm afraid of 
commitment but then gets married to 
somebody you know a year later who knows 
what that's all about but there are 
those people but people that are truly 
afraid of commitment and not just giving 
us you know uh just those kinds of words 
that don't really ring authentically 
because you watch what they do 
um later on down the line people are 
afraid of commitment because it could be 
quote unquote attachment issue stuff now 
you might be familiar with attachment 
issues it's certainly gained a lot more 
fire in the last several years we talk a 
lot about it and specifically how 
attachments play out in the dating world 
we have an awesome love lab Workshop 
called fix your picker which really 
helps you to understand oh my God am I 
anxious or avoidant or anxious or 
voidant or secure and what I can tell 
you guys is that attachment systems can 
change depending on who you're in a 
relationship with but now let's say if 
you're truly afraid of commitment it can 
be because of attachment issues what 
does that mean it means that you had 
parents and something that your parents 
did one parent both parents or maybe 
just based on who you are you didn't 
feel that your needs were adequately met 
by one or both of your parents and you 
came to realize as little you that 
really the only person that could take 
care of you was you right and you 
started to say relationships don't work 
the only person that can really take 
care of me is me because I didn't attach 
very well to my caregivers right and so 
that's what's classically a person 
that's avoidant and those are tough 
people to be in relationships with it's 
not impossible to or if you're the avoid 
and it's not impossible to find love it 
just requires support around you right 
now why else people might have trauma 
right they might have sexual abuse they 
might have 
terrible things that have happened to 
them in their youth or even in their 20s 
30s or 40s I've heard 
absolutely heart-wrenching stories of 
things that have happened to our clients 
both male and female that cause a lot of 
trauma and a lot of trust issues which 
make them afraid of commitment and 
sometimes what we fear is being with 
somebody that's going to hurt us and 
break our hearts again and sometimes 
what we focus on grows when we're so 
afraid of being hurt again who do we 
pick again we pick people that hurt us 
it's like if I tell you to look around a 
room and say okay tell me all the people 
that are wearing red you're going to 
come back with your dutiful little 
notepad and you're going to tell me 
Bella at this party seven people were 
wearing red then if I ask you okay 
friend how many people were wearing 
green you would say well I didn't look 
at that because you told me to focus on 
who's wearing red and that's exactly 
what happens when we do things from a 
place of fear we often tend to make the 
wrong decisions that lead to the results 
that we're afraid of right so people 
that are also afraid of commitment 
people that have continuously made the 
wrong choices and they're Once Bitten 
Twice bitten three times bitten right 
they've had previous heart breaks and 
they just can't they can't 
think about committing to somebody again 
because they're so afraid again of 
Abandonment of rejection of getting 
their hearts broken right and some 
people have what I call fear of 
commitment because of fomo right fear of 
missing out they're what we call 
maximizers if you've read the Barry 
Schwartz book called The Paradox of 
choice he talks about two kinds of 
people satisfizers and maximizers right 
and maximizers are the kinds of people 
that he tells a great story in the book 
um and I'll give you an example if the 
mission between two people ones that 
satisficer and one's a maximizer is to 
go out and buy a black cashmere sweater 
he says in the book that uh satisfier a 
satisficer will say okay what do I need 
in a cashmere sweater I want something 
that fits me well it's not too big it's 
not too small it's not itchy and it's 
200 or less and the satisfy bikes or 
walks into Saks Fifth Avenue finds a 
black cashmere sweater tries it on it 
fits it's 150 bucks they're like Yay 
mission accomplished I'm done sweater 
and bag goes home the maximizer would go 
to Saks see the same sweater and go this 
is really nice and it fits what I'm 
looking for but let me just go down to 
Neiman's and to Nordstroms into 
Nordstrom Rack and to Bloomingdale's and 
to Zara and let me see if I can't find a 
better black cashmere sweater right and 
what ends up happening is the maximizer 
we all think would be happier and would 
get the ideal black sweater but the 
maximizer can't commit to one black 
sweater because they always feel that 
there's something better out there most 
research shows that satisfizers are 
ultimately half happier than maximizers 
so fear of missing out you know those 
people that are constantly dating with 
one eye open one third of my clients 
come from New York City and they'll 
always say in New York it just feels 
like people are dating with one eye open 
like who's coming around the corner 
right so those people are also afraid of 
commitment for fear of settling for an 
option that may not be the best and 
those people often are in the dating 
World year over year decade over decade 
because there's might just be someone 
better that's out there so these are 
classic you know symptoms of people or 
reasons that people can be afraid of 
commitment and there's also one other 
one that I've seen play out over 13 
years people that have a tremendous 
cultural or religious pressure put on 
them to maybe marry somebody within 
their ethnicity their diaspora their 
religion sometimes those people people 
can be afraid to commit because they 
have so much family pressure on them 
that they don't feel like anybody is 
good enough or they just don't have a 
supply and ample supply of people within 
their religious 
um Faith or their ethnicity to find 
someone so they're constantly just 
holding out for what's best so these are 
the reasons that people can you fear 
commitment you know through trauma 
through attachment through fomo through 
just a series of bad decisions so the 
question is you know maybe you're 
identifying with this going wow maybe 
I'm afraid of commitment or you can hear 
this and say geez I have a history of 
picking people that don't want to commit 
to relationships at all now what do you 
do with that right 
um seeking out a great a village around 
you right and I wouldn't even say for 
this you you know I'm big on saying find 
a village of people that support you 
right your friends your family people 
that can help you but if you fear that 
these are the issues that you're either 
picking people that are afraid of 
commitment or you are afraid of 
commitment because of trauma then that 
might be an issue best left to having 
personal trainers for your love life 
have a great dating coach have a great 
therapist you might need CBT talk 
therapy you might need EMDR therapy you 
know and properly qualified therapists 
can tell you what's best for you and 
even at Smart dating Academy while we 
date coach we have lots and lots of 
clients that concurrently see therapists 
because therapy and coaching is an 
amazing pairing to make it through this 
dating world so 
um there is a lot of help out there if 
you feel that this might be you or 
you're picking people that are always 
afraid of committing to you right 
they're good people they just can't make 
commitments I actually in my research 
found something really interesting that 
there's even a phobia that goes beyond 
attachment and Trauma and it's called 
gamophobia it's an actual phobia a fear 
of commitment or fear of marriage 
g-a-m-o phobia it says a fear of 
commitment or marriage can keep you from 
enjoying meaningful relationships a 
painful breakup divorce or abandonment 
during childhood or adulthood may make 
you afraid to commit to someone you love 
Psychotherapy and coaching can 
potentially help you to overcome this 
commitment phobia mainly Psychotherapy 
right and people who have gamophobia 
have a serious fear of commitment and 
this fear is so intense that they often 
find it impossible to have long-term 
relationship and why is it called 
gamophobia again Amos is the Greek word 
for marriage right and Phobos means fear 
so some people can't commit to you know 
long-term things like picking a college 
a career choice picking a place to live 
what kind of car to buy but the this 
fear of commitment gamophobia is 
specifically fear of personal 
relationships right and people with 
gamma phobia may be unable to form 
lasting relationships they experience 
extreme anxiety when in a relationship 
and constantly worry about the 
relationship ending they feel anxiety 
when they see happily committed couples 
or they push people away or end 
relationships abruptly right so people 
that have a family history 
of gamophobia or high anxiety attachment 
issues all of these can lead to fear uh 
it can lead to gamophobia and gamophobia 
actually has symptoms if you feel chills 
dizziness lightheadedness excessive 
sweating heart palpitations nausea 
shortness of breath trembling or shaking 
right it's definitely best to see a 
mental health Professor but that's a 
very very skinny branch of people most 
likely if you're listening to this 
hopefully you have what I call a garden 
variety fear of commitment that can be 
resolved that isn't a true phobia or you 
can stop picking people that have fear 
of commitment by working with a company 
like us at Smart dating Academy we have 
an extraordinary level of success with 
helping people to be pick happy people 
and get into relationships so I hope 
this little mini has helped you think 
about people that are afraid of 
commitment or maybe you're afraid of 
commitment and as always we are here to 
serve you follow us on Instagram at 
smartdatingacademy sign up for our 
newsletter at smartdatingacademy.com or 
Best Yet schedule a one-on-one 
consultation to see how you can best 
work with us so we can help you overcome 
your fear of commitment or get you in 
the right space to do it or to pick 
people that aren't afraid of commitment 
smart daters until next time sending you 
big love and big doses of psychotic 
optimism 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart taters hello I'm happy to be here 
for you again in this week of mini 
podcasts so let's hop right to it and 
let's talk about one of my favorite 
controversial points and if you've been 
following me for a while you know I tend 
to say things sometimes that aren't 
exactly what you've heard throughout 
your life in dating or what the other 
you know 117 
987 dating books say so 
um I've been saying this for 14 years 
and it seems like it's catching on now 
with therapists but the topic today is 
butterflies in your stomach while dating 
okay now 
butterflies are bad 
after the first date now why is this I'm 
going to give you a a little bit of a 
history of young Bella so had dated some 
great guys 
and in high school college but then I 
thought you know I've never had that 
Hollywood experience where I've had 
butterflies in my stomach I want to be 
swept off my feet I want all of the 
things that romance is truly made of so 
um I started looking around and my gauge 
was people that would give me 
butterflies and what I soon found out is 
that everybody who gave me butterflies 
in the beginning after dates one two 
three four five and the butterflies 
would get stronger and stronger it was 
an intense rush for the first I don't 
know for first date to four months but 
you know with every relationship I had 
that gave me butterflies I ended up flat 
on my back on the ground broken up with 
tortured and I thought gosh why is this 
butterfly thing not working for me and 
then I you guys know the story I did my 
own GHQ list started dating Andy who I 
had been friends with for six years 
we've been married for 25 years and so 
now as I come and I started Smart dating 
Academy in 2009 I started to do research 
and I started to put more data behind 
the anecdotal on gut things that I had 
felt and I will tell you that from a 
clinical standpoint and from an 
anecdotal standpoint of my clients for 
the last 14 years butterflies are indeed 
bad do you know what they are they're 
not excitement remember if you're an 
excitement women are very closely 
related and mistaken emotions what 
butterflies actually are 
your body's saying there's fear up ahead 
danger Will Robinson I've been here 
before put on your Nikes and run and yet 
we're acculturated to think oh my God I 
feel butterflies in my stomach I must 
really like him or I must really like 
her so I want to tell you these aren't 
the kinds of butterflies that you might 
feel you know I do a lot of public 
speaking a lot of TV these aren't the 
little butterflies that I feel and 
sometimes big butterflies when I'm on 
Good Morning America or the Today Show 
something where you know when I'm in New 
York in studio and you feel that 
nervousness like oh my gosh I don't want 
to panic I'm not talking about those 
butterflies these are after you've been 
on a date with somebody right you feel 
those churning butterflies like your 
stomach keeps slipping over and dates 
two three four five six you feel the 
same way what it is is your body telling 
you there's anxiety you've been to this 
Rodeo before right it's fear it's 
anxiety and a lot of us that have 
dysfunctional dating patterns we want to 
feel that we want to get on the bad 
roller coaster of bad attachment we want 
to feel high highs and low lows because 
that feels exhilarating but remember the 
highs never stay high and the lows 
always get lower so what I want you to 
know as you get out there when you're 
dating if you feel those heavy duty 
butterflies in your stomach after the 
first date second date third date fourth 
date fifth date chances are you're 
dating somebody who is not good for you 
and your intuition and your gut are 
smarter than you are so I hope that you 
know butterflies are bad in the dating 
process we've had zero divorces in 14 
years very few breakups even when our 
clients follow our procedures so I can 
tell you with great certainty both from 
my own dating history from my clients 
dating history and the research out 
there will tell you that anything you do 
from a place of fear or anxiety usually 
never leads you to a good decision so 
next time you feel butterflies in your 
stomach when you're dating somebody pay 
attention is it fear is it anxiety it 
most likely is so until next time I give 
you a big hug and lots of uh fairy dust 
and psychotic optimism love you 


smartdators welcome back I'm happy to 
have Jackie pilasoff with us the creator 
of the divorce girls smiling Community I 
want you all to get your notebooks out 
because we're going to be talking about 
the top 10 possible reasons why you 
didn't hear back from someone you 
thought you had a good date with I think 
there's a lot of pain out there from 
women who are dating and you know when 
someone doesn't call back it feels very 
personal and it feels very awful and you 
think to yourself your first gut 
instinct is what did I do what did I do 
wrong and that's something I hope today 
Bella you and I can tell people that 
it's not you there are so many other 
reasons why you might not have called 


with a narcissist when someone is that 
fractured it doesn't get healed a 
narcissist has this Brokenness this 
woundedness which actually has them have 
very very very very low self-esteem 
almost no self-esteem whatsoever even 
though they posture in such grandiose 
ways like peacocks they look like they 
have really high self-esteem but they 
actually have incredibly low self-esteem 
almost non-existent and so they attach 
themselves to you to gain their sense of 
self so they're going to attach 
themselves to someone who's really 
awesome and want to sort of almost like 
absorb your awesomeness to make them 
feel better and so in the beginning 
you're everything you are the most 
amazing person in the world because 
you're going to heal them and then over 
time when you don't because you can't 
because that's not your job and because 
that's not how it works we don't heal 
other people they will turn on you and 
then you're the bad guy 


[Music] 
today's episode is all about toxic 
friendships toxic relationships and what 
our guest dr elizabeth lombardo calls 
staying out of the red zone you know 
you're in a toxic relationship if you 
feel worse about yourself when you're 
with that person 
or even thinking about being with that 
person if your vibrations your 
vibrational state is low and you really 
think i'm not good enough or this is the 
best friendship i've ever had or i ever 
could have everybody leaves me right and 
when we're messaging ourselves from this 
then we become more apt to continue to 
tolerate this so at a certain point when 
you get yourself into therapy or 
coaching and work on these issues and 
address that more fundamentally that you 
are good enough and that you are 
a person that people want to be around 
and you elevate your own vibrational 
level you'll start to bring in those 
people 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love welcome back 
and I am so excited about this topic 
this episode and most importantly this 
guest now if you've been following the 
podcast some episodes ago I can't 
remember if it was episode two or three 
or whatever it was I talked about are 
you dating a narcissist or is this 
person just an a-hole and went through 
lots of the info about what is actually 
a diagnosable narcissist so so many 
people maybe even including you came 
back to me saying you loved this episode 
and you're thirsty for more and you just 
it's like this is a word that's 
pervading our culture so I wanted to 
bring on an incredible resource to all 
of us as well as a friend of mine and I 
welcome Dr Michelle Roberts to the 
podcast and before I bring Michelle 
officially in I want to tell you what a 
badass individual she is so Michelle 
Roberts Dr Roberts she's a 
psychotherapist a journalist and a 
professor and her work focuses on the 
intersection of culture relationships 
and modern narcissism she helps when 
women break trauma cycles that help that 
keep them from becoming their whole 
amazing radiant selves so Michelle has 
spent a lifetime observing The Human 
Condition and all its pain and 
complexity first okay in addition to 
being an amazing therapist she's a 
Pulitzer prize-winning journalist oh my 
God who does that and now as a 
researcher and psychotherapist 
specializing in the treatment of 
narcissistic abuse she's amazing she's 
seen how trauma and betrayal can 
immobilize even the most capable and 
insightful women so Michelle welcome to 
the Smart dating Academy podcast we 
cannot wait for the gems that I know you 
were just going to launch on us thank 
you Bella it's so nice to see you again 
to be back here it's so awesome so 
Michelle tell us about just kind of a 
summary of 
your background the research you did and 
what cptsd is because your work blew my 
mind the first time I heard it 
yeah okay well 
um I first started my career as a 
journalist 
um my gosh long time ago now 30 years 
ago and 
um I covered crime so as you can imagine 
um I saw a lot of dark personalities and 
um 
I was always really curious and 
fascinated about that and then I also 
got to kind of observe the collateral 
damage of that so kind of the seeds for 
this interest were planted 
way back then 
um when I left journalism about a decade 
ago it was just kind of as this kind of 
Boom of narcissism was starting to 
percolate on social media 
um there wasn't much happening kind of 
in the mainstream press or 
um psychological journals at the time 
but there were there was a big group of 
survivors who couldn't figure out what 
was happening to them 
um they they were traumatized they were 
um they were kind of brought to their 
knees by these relationships that were 
driving them crazy but they really 
didn't even know why or if they were 
being abused and this whole kind of 
field of narcissistic abuse started to 
grow and percolate in 
um in Facebook groups and on Instagram 
pages and this is what started about a 
decade ago and I had some personal 
experience with narcissism in my my 
family of origin and in a relationship 
that I had and I was interested in it 
too 
so I just kind of watched and observed 
as this scene kind of started to take 
root and then when I got into my own 
psychology and counseling studies I 
decided to take this on full time 
that's awesome so so cool and and tell 
me tell us about 
what you discovered about Early 
Childhood experiences the the the the 
test so to speak that blew my mind the 
first time we talked and what c as in 
Captain cptsd is oh yeah thank you so of 
course the internet abounded and all 
these opinions about the topic of 
narcissism and they weren't always 
helpful and there was little published 
science in it what there was mainly 
looked at what made a pathologically 
narcissistic man my research um was is 
the first 
peer-reviewed extensive research that 
focuses on survivors wow 
women who identify as narcissistic abuse 
survivors and what I learned about them 
was that they scored four times higher 
for the presence of childhood early life 
trauma than the average population 
that's very significant I have 
Goosebumps listening to that like full 
body chills listening to that yeah and 
you nearly three out of four of them 
then met the clinical criteria the 
cutoff scores for what is known as 
complex 
um 
PTSD complex post-traumatic stress 
disorder 
this is a form of PTSD that happens when 
a person gets trapped in the situation 
it it is diagnosed in for prisoners of 
War domestic violence victims child 
abuse victims it's when you can't escape 
the abuse and it is one of the hardest 
um 
uh diagnoses to identify and treat 
and what I learned was that 
three out of four so almost 75 of the 2 
000 women who participated in my study 
met the diagnostic criteria for cptsd 
but almost none of them had been 
diagnosed 
unbelievable so they identified as 
victims of narcissistic abuse but had no 
idea three out of four that they had 
experienced 
diagnosable 
cptsd because of Early Childhood 
experiences or relationships well I'm 
not sure if they didn't have any idea 
but the people that they were depending 
on to treat them weren't seeing the 
connection which is the more important 
part right 
um complex PTSD is a relatively new 
diagnosis 
um it's an important one because we even 
treat it differently from PTSD there's 
in um 
so the a lot of the treatment protocols 
that we use are even slightly different 
for complex PTSD versus regular PTSD but 
these this group of women were having 
really serious 
cptsd symptoms but no one in the 
clinical Community was diagnosing it for 
what it was wow and that's what my 
research showed 
um so the clinical implications for this 
are are incredible and it also showed um 
just how underserved this group of women 
were 
another step that I took because I 
really wanted to know okay well what's 
causing the cptsd was it just the early 
childhood abuse or was it the 
narcissistic abuse so we did um we did a 
statistical 
analysis called a multiple regression 
analysis and we determined that it was 
both 
cptsd would would be present 
statistically 
um with just the childhood 
um trauma but as well as the 
narcissistic abuse so it wasn't one or 
the other it was both and so we couldn't 
explain it away the narcissistic abuse 
was damaging and so was the early life 
trauma 
so can you did your study show 
correlation between people that had 
Early Childhood trauma and people that 
would accept the narcissistic abuse and 
except isn't a good word so people that 
underwent you know trauma early on were 
more likely to to say I guess this is 
okay I guess this is what love feels 
like I guess this is what relationships 
feel like 
yeah and here's and you know and here's 
the difference between kind of getting 
your information off the internet and 
working with a trauma specialist okay 
what we know I'm largely from 
um the body keeps the score and um Dr 
um Bessel vanderkolk's work is that 
um survivors of trauma carry a different 
physiology in their body after trauma 
occurs 
um 
so trauma reenactment Theory which is 
Vander cult's Theory maintains that this 
subconscious attraction to familiar 
trauma whether they're experienced as a 
child or adult or both it's repeated on 
behavioral emotional 
physiological and neuroendocrine levels 
so this isn't just something that you 
choose this is really something that is 
in your nervous system so it's it's 
almost and for many people it's there 
might be a fleeting awareness of it 
but it is so much deeper than that which 
is why a really high level of 
intervention is needed to kind of 
interrupt these Cycles 
so there's a lot of just like with 
regular domestic violence there's just a 
lot of victim blaming involved in that 
right because we're shocked there's 
there's almost uh you know there's 
there's this trauma bonding that happens 
and that looks a lot like kind of an 
addiction to this type of relationship 
and I guess on one level that's true but 
it's it's not um something that she is 
choosing 
it is um it's repetition compulsion of 
trauma 
wow mind-blowing and 
how does one get diagnosed you mentioned 
that it's often missed in the clinical 
Community how do how does one get 
diagnosed with cptsd 
so you would you would go to a therapist 
and you would work with them and there 
there is um clinical criteria 
um for complex 
post-traumatic stress disorder 
on how we measured it in my study was 
the complex trauma inventory which is a 
new measure 
and what it it does is it measures all 
of the criteria for regular PTSD plus 
emotion dysregulation 
um and 
it adds those two scores together to get 
a complex trauma 
um measure so you could take 
um a you could take a measure like that 
to get some sort of idea if you had that 
um but also I'm working with a clinician 
a really trained skilled trauma 
therapist 
um 
they could render a diagnosis 
that's great so okay so there's some you 
and and I know if you're listening in 
this if this is resonant to you you 
might be thinking oh my God my therapist 
has never said this what do I need to do 
and this is why I'm probing for this a 
little bit and if you find yourself in 
that situation then what Dr Roberts is 
referring to is finding somebody who is 
trained in a specific way that is a 
trauma therapist is that right yes yes 
so and there's very few clinicians 
really working in this space this 
overlap of narcissistic abuse or we 
could even call it the coercive control 
component of domestic violence 
um so there there aren't many of us out 
there 
um but I'm finding anyone who's really 
skilled in trauma therapy so 
um an EMDR therapist eye movement 
desensitization reprocessing therapist 
or someone who says that they do ifs 
therapy or attachment work these are the 
things that you want to listen for or 
read when you're looking for someone 
so 
um another one somatic experiencing if a 
therapist knows that kind of modality 
chances are good that he or she is going 
to kind of be skilled enough in this 
area to get you where you need to go 
wow and it sounds like people can heal 
from this and and and 
cope as much as one can with the the 
hands that have been dealt to them but 
it sounds like there's some really 
exciting things that can be done to make 
life better 
yes 
um I would say that's very very true 
um 
I wanted to say you know there's so much 
out there right now about narcissism and 
narcissistic abuse and is it really as 
pervasive as it seems and 
I mean statistically 
um I would say yes I mean we've got 
studies out now a meta-analysis that 
shows that American college students 
today are 40 less empathetic than 30 
years ago 
with the numbers primarily dropping 
after 2000. 
more specifically today's students 
scored 48 percent lower an empathetic 
concern and 34 percent lower in 
perspective taking both of which are 
really important indices of empathy 
right 
um so other Studies have documented 
increasing narcissism among college 
students since the late 80s 
so a recent May meta-analysis which kind 
of takes into account all studies that 
have been done 
um 
found that when 
you know when when we were in college 
um 70 
of people had normal to high you know 
levels of empathy and 30 percent had you 
know lower to depressed levels of 
empathy 
um just take a guess what it is now 
for lowered maybe half of people have 
reduced empathy or lowered empathy it's 
flipped 
oh so 70 it's 70 30 the other way now 30 
percent of people have normal levels of 
empathy and 70 don't they're more 
indifferent yes so so there is there's 
something here right that is going to 
play out in relationship we also see are 
seeing it play out in broader culture 
we're seeing that 
um but then there's also something to 
this early life trauma component as well 
right 
so 
um someone who's coming into 
relationship and whether with a 
significant amount of early life trauma 
um if she gets with somebody who has a 
really depleted empathy or high levels 
of narcissism that's going to be 
especially damaging she's going to be 
especially vulnerable and really not as 
prone as other people to get herself out 
of that situation 
um at the same time she's she is going 
to be 
um pretty harmed by a jerk too right so 
at some point it doesn't totally matter 
what she's bringing to the table 
um is something that is an entity unto 
itself that needs to be addressed 
for her happy relating why do I say that 
because so much of what's out there is 
erase the narcissist and you're going to 
be fine 
that's right that's not really true 
um but what's most likely to happen is 
that you're likely to stay in this kind 
of subconscious 
um trauma cycle 
um and not really ever get to your full 
embodied alive self 
and I think the gift in this Dynamic and 
in this conversation is that often these 
narcissistic relationships are so bad 
that they push us into kind of our Dark 
Night of the Soul 
and that forces us to do the work 
that we might not have other otherwise 
ever done 
and I see that with so many of my 
clients 
so 
yeah I you know Michelle I see this with 
our clients as well when they have this 
kind of repetitive history right and 
we'll tell them and we take them through 
our exercises like who is your elevator 
person who's your high GHQ guy here are 
your red flags okay and now you're ready 
to launch and what we often find is when 
women and frankly men right when when we 
come in to the dating space but we have 
these prior traumas that when we're 
presented with a good solid human being 
that maybe has to cure attachment right 
what do we hear from these clients he's 
boring he's boring boring like I'm just 
bored I need someone a little more 
exciting a little more edgy and and I 
tell them you're looking for somebody to 
activate your nervous system to put you 
on the edge to make you feel like you're 
walking on shells because we've come to 
mistake 
excitement and dysfunction 
exactly 
exactly and that's why I always say 
it's actually a pretty dangerous time to 
start dating again if you really want a 
healthy partner until you are really 
sure that you have done this work 
because even if you have you know left 
your most recent narcissistic partner if 
you go into the dating pool and you're 
you've got you know Bella around you 
with the you know the bumper pads and 
you're only getting the good guys in 
there 
um 
that it could cause a relapse because 
this fear that there's not going to be 
that jolt of you know electricity 
could often Drive 
um 
drives women in this Dynamic back 
and I bet you see that too I see that 
all the time in my practice we do we do 
and we highlight it pretty quickly like 
hey I think this is pattern this person 
if they're not narcissistic maybe 
they're avoidant you know we call P you 
know people that are more avoidant like 
they're broken koala bears right they 
they want to attach but their legs are 
broken and they can't so while they can 
be good human beings and good friends 
and good sons and daughters and parents 
in romantic relationships a different 
side emerges and we take that early 
childhood trauma and it can be some and 
it transfers into our romantic 
relationships so there are signs signs 
are often missed in the beginning and 
that's what we've become really good at 
helping people identify because there 
are Clues and the clues are there if 
you're looking for that and the clues 
are also there if you might be avoidant 
and you might be wanting somebody who's 
more dysfunctional and exciting and oh 
this is boring and so we will these are 
things that we work with people on on a 
daily basis because sometimes it's kind 
of to your point we go back to what's 
familiar we may reenact things sometimes 
what we know intellectually to be right 
isn't what feels good or feels 
comfortable so we regress to that it's 
like we all know how you know 
intellectually if I said how can I lose 
10 pounds I would say okay eat less move 
more right but how many but how hard is 
that to do everything is in the 
execution and that's where the rubber 
hits the road 
yeah 
yeah so it's just like you said fear can 
sometimes be mistaken for excitement and 
intimate relationships and unfortunately 
this High state of anxiety can become 
the glue that binds people together in 
unhealthy bonds 
and the absence of it can feel boring or 
empty I call this phase living Gray 
he's gone I'm supposed to be happy but 
now I'm empty because I my nervous 
system isn't constantly being activated 
as it has probably been since I was 
a tiny girl right yeah therefore it 
feels like we're never gonna experience 
aliveness again we're alive but we don't 
feel alive that's true that's what 
trauma really feels like 
and so dating again too soon it creates 
a huge relapse risk where trauma bonds 
are present 
and not only dating too soon you might 
wait 10 years but if you haven't done 
the work to heal that right is what 
you're saying with the EMDR and did you 
call it ifs and somatic therapy and 
attachment work right and do that and 
then get yourself a friendly 
neighborhood dating coach that's going 
to wrap you in bubble wrap and pink 
sparkles and make sure that you stay the 
F away from narcissistic abuse so 
there's a whole thing and if you're 
listening to this and it feels like you 
what I want you to know is this is not 
your fault it's not your fault right oh 
it ended and this is this is not even 
there's a 
this is not even a rare problem yeah I 
mean this is 
very few of us get out of our childhoods 
without some sort of 
um just some sort of trauma 
um and 
and that's not to say that everyone has 
this problem but it is it is not a rare 
problem either that's why we're seeing 
so much of it and like I said earlier 
there is some sort of cultural shift 
here 
um and I I could speculate on you know 
reasons why social media is playing 
likely playing a role totally 
I've got a 14 year old and an 18 year 
old and I can tell you you know kovid 
certainly did a number on kids and the 
time that they spend on social media 
platforms looking at bikini photos of 
other people and what like I don't look 
good enough I'm not thin enough I'm not 
pretty enough look at how rip that guy 
is I need to work out more I need to 
take creatine like I live with this 
right I've got and and I see and I can 
see where this could lead to a flip to a 
reduction in empathy to a spotlight on 
yourself to a spotlight on your flaws 
your perceived flaws which leads to 
depression it's like God can we throw 
our phones away let's go back to the 
clam phone so 
um you know some days I think to myself 
in 10 or 20 years we're going to look at 
cell phones or we're going to look at 
social media the way we look at smoking 
yeah I hope so 
and doing the work you do and doing the 
work that I do I think we're very 
aligned in in all of this so you know 
you mentioned that there's this 
pervasiveness and we just speculated the 
why about narcissism and narcissistic 
abuse and is it as pervasive sounds like 
hell to the yeah it's as pervasive as it 
seems is is that a fair statement I I 
think that it is I also think that not 
everything that's happening here 
um is about that narcissists are 
horrible people I think that this is a 
dance of trauma 
and that 
um 
and that in a lot of ways I mean the 
same trauma that is creating 
um a repetition compulsion 
um on the part of 
um the part the partners that we're 
talking about also plays a role in kind 
of the narcissistic defense right or the 
avoidant defense 
um there's there's different types of 
um trauma response fight flight freeze 
and fun 
each of those types um creates different 
patterns of behavior 
um fight 
um is you know fight to stay safe flight 
is run away to stay safe or keep you 
know they they tend to keep busy all the 
time 
freeze are the dissociators check out 
disconnect and The Fawns are the ones 
take care of everything make sure 
everyone is okay so we but at the core 
of all of that you don't get a trauma 
response without 
something you know happening in the 
beginning and 
and so what's creating all of this it's 
it's likely originating from a lot of 
the same sourcing 
and I know for a lot of my clients they 
really struggle with 
um what is really pushed I think on 
social media and that is this idea that 
narcissists are evil and 
I mean certainly a lack of empathy is 
not something that you want to run up 
against it's not something no that I'm 
never going to condone or defend 
but 
um 
people hurt people hurt people that's 
right um and you can understand that 
um 
24 hours a day but unless you decide to 
do your own healing work 
you're likely not gonna ever 
um really fully Escape that pattern 
because you're part of that you had 
Rachel Graham on your Show recently and 
I was really loving what she was talking 
about with self-responsibility this is 
not victim blaming I always tell my 
clients this is not your fault what 
happened to you when you were a kid or 
when you were in that relationship 
not your fault 
um you didn't ask for it you didn't 
deserve any of it none of it and it is 
totally your responsibility to clean it 
up 
because no one else is going to do that 
for you no you can stay in this identity 
of 
a victim of what has happened to you 
yeah or you can go and do the healing 
work and step outside of it oh and let 
me tell you I wallowed in that identity 
myself personally for a good long while 
um so I I it is not 
um it is not something that I am 
trying to be judgmental about it's an 
easy thing to do 
but you really can get stuck in that 
identity and that identity does serve 
you for a while it helps you make sense 
of what's happened and what you're 
understanding 
but you cannot stay there forever and 
have what my goal for myself and my 
clients is and that's post-traumatic 
growth that's right that is what you get 
when you're willing to take a look at 
all of the dark stuff 
sit in it process it feel the pain 
inst instead of shopping it away or 
smoking it away or drinking it away or 
relationshiping it away 
sitting in it feeling it and then 
turning um 
self-parenting 
um 
taking care of yourself doing things in 
a new way when you do that you come out 
on the other side a completely different 
person really the you I think you are 
always supposed to be that's right 
that's the gift of it 
if you choose to take it 
one hundred percent and you know I one 
of the things I really believe in life 
is if you can find the meaning in the 
mess around you right you you can shift 
and like we were talking about in that 
previous episode you go from victim and 
find wallow like you're saying and being 
a victim but then you become the Creator 
you become the Creator and you go into 
this empowered Dynamic like okay that 
sucked and that was horrible but now how 
do I how do I get out of that I've sat 
with it then you go and work with Dr 
Roberts and you get all of the therapy 
and you get the EMDR and you do the 
coaching and you heal yourself and then 
you get assistance around dating so that 
somebody's whispering in your ear and 
looking in your inbox and listening to 
what the dates are are are are are 
looking like and feeling like to tell 
you no oh that's not good for you but 
this one is right and that's ultimately 
all of the resources that now exist out 
there didn't exist 30 years ago right we 
didn't even know these things and so now 
if this feels like oh my God oh my God 
this is touching a nerve the good news 
is is that there's a lot of help out 
there and there are people that can help 
you and there are people that can 
understand you and get you to a better 
place so be inspired to take that first 
step take that action to getting 
yourself the the the guard rails around 
you right if you were going to jump out 
of an airplane if you were like I'm 
going to go skydiving right that's the 
you know let's say that's dating for a 
lot of you that have had trauma in the 
past nobody's gonna let you get up in a 
plane and go jump out of the plane alone 
you know what they're going to do is 
they're going to put you through a four 
hour you know learning thing in videos 
and then they're gonna strap skydiving 
instructor to you before you jump out of 
that plane nobody gonna let you jump out 
by yourself even if you're like I got 
this no you don't you don't have this 
you want someone strapped to you that 
has another shoot because what if your 
shoot doesn't open so that's the same 
thing in this process and and so many of 
us have traumas I know we follow Dr Amir 
Levine's work as well who wrote the book 
attached and he says you know if you if 
you add it up 25 of people are reported 
to be emotionally avoidant 20 are 
anxious in attachment style and five 
percent are anxious avoidant guys that's 
one in two okay one and two okay and now 
Michelle's saying that 70 percent has 
flipped to the other side if people with 
reduced empathy you gotta have some you 
gotta have some new skills when you get 
out there and the good news is is we're 
really here to help you to do that and 
if this sounds like you feels like you 
know you're just like at minimum at 
least half of the people on planet Earth 
if not more at this point you know and 
Michelle what are the five best pieces 
of advice that you can give to survivors 
I just love that you've got and I'm 
you've given so many great pieces of 
advice but do you have five more that 
you could just you know 
you know blow our minds with or however 
many you have well we anyone who's been 
through a trauma Bond 
um 
or an addiction you know we put we play 
these games with ourselves we Gaslight 
ourselves 
um to stay safe we convince ourselves 
that it's not that bad right the my 
first piece of advice is make a 
commitment to live in reality if you 
find yourself wanting to fantasize about 
what could be or what you hope will be 
um remind yourself that you've made a 
commitment to living the truth even if 
you don't choose to leave the 
relationship immediately in the meantime 
you can at least remind yourself that 
you will have to stop fantasizing about 
what isn't there when we're little kids 
and our parents are not there for us we 
have no choice but to fantasize it there 
that is how we survive our childhoods we 
do that when we're adults too and we 
create these fantasy bonds and we can 
live in those bonds with partners that 
are not there for us for a long time so 
make a commitment to live in reality 
understand the hook identify what 
exactly you're losing 
um it might be a fantasy a dream an 
illusion maybe your partner convinced 
you into believing they were going to 
fulfill some deep unmet need in you once 
you can identify with that need or hook 
is you can get down to the business of 
grieving it grieving means holding your 
hands open and letting it go 
you say goodbye to the notion that the 
need you have may never be met at a 
minimum it will not be met by this 
relationship 
and when you say understand the hook it 
means understand what this person was 
giving you what need they were 
fulfilling what hook what hooked you in 
or what hooked you and then understand 
that was an illusion it's not reality 
they cannot provide that need for you 
and grieve it 
okay often often 
um the this illusion of 
connection and bonding 
um 
even though we know it's not there if we 
have kind of just the trappings of the 
relationship 
even though he's not coming home or 
doing all of these things narcissists or 
not right if it's not fulfilling if it 
if it has this kind of 
a facade to it 
um it just fills this fantasy need 
and for people with trauma sometimes 
that is we can live there for a very 
long time okay and then because our 
nervous systems are you know so 
disassociated 
um as well we're never really being 
embodied or in the moment 
so um that is that's a really important 
thing another one is write a bottom line 
um list of bottom line behaviors for 
yourself some possibilities I will not 
sleep with someone who calls me names 
I will not argue with someone who has 
been drinking I will take care of my own 
finances I will not have conversations 
with anyone when I feel desperate or 
defensive or obsessive whatever your 
areas of concern just determine on what 
you need to do to change and make those 
your bottom line behaviors I bet you 
could help someone come up with a list 
of those too Bella oh I love them build 
your own Sweet Life this was the best 
part of my own recovery and it involved 
rescuing a couple 
retired Greyhounds something I never 
thought I would do there's a whole story 
about that but just little by little 
start dreaming about your future for 
yourself and your children if you have 
them in other words make dreams that 
don't involve this person maybe you want 
to go to school that's what I did start 
a hobby go to church join a Club just 
start making some life-affirming choices 
for yourself that take you away from 
these toxic interactions that have been 
destroying your peace of mind and then 
finally and this is so important not 
being with this person does not mean 
isolate yourself it doesn't mean stop 
relating 
um the only way to be really free from 
unhealthy connections is to start 
investing in healthy ones and they do 
not have to be romantic 
um develop other close connected and 
bonded relationships that are not 
centered on drama and make these your 
go-to people your family of choice 
it's really hard to heal without support 
So notice the people in your life who 
show you loving concern and if you I 
have some clients who have had this 
accumulation of trauma over their life 
and they really struggle to to find a 
group like that 
um get a good therapist to start 
therapists helpers that you can that you 
turn to 
um and you you hire to help you they 
count my therapist she counts totally 
she was around zero I love that oh my 
gosh these it I mean literally I'm 
taking notes because your tips are so 
amazing so so amazing I'm so grateful 
for you and for the work that you're 
doing you're doing God's work and 
bringing this you know to 
mainstream Society and I you know am 
just delighted and honored that you 
would share your gems with us and we 
will definitely have you back and for 
those of you who are listening 
um Dr Roberts does coaching groups 
um and do you want to tell us just a 
quick thing about what you're doing and 
what you're starting 
oh yeah I am I'm in private practice 
and I um I do 
um 
I see a small number of clients for 
intensive work and I open those up a 
couple times a year and I so get on my 
mailing list and I will let you know 
when I open those up and then I'm doing 
two groups this year 
um so I'm really excited about that so 
I'll be there um in person and then 
we'll also can have this healing 
community of people working together and 
I'm going to be starting those 
um in one in June and the other one in 
the fall so really looking forward to 
those 
um and if you want to look those up it's 
www.michelle robertsphd.com 
oh you are the best thank you so much 
for joining us and get your therapy get 
your dating suit on people and then come 
to Smart dating Academy because between 
Dr Robert's work and artwork I promise 
you will find a healthy cute adorable 
lid to your gorgeous little pot 
I love that 


[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
welcome back I'm so excited to talk to 
you today about one of the most Googled 
questions 
in the dating world and that question is 
will dating a friend ruin the 
relationship so let's jump right into 
this 
so the answer to this question 
as you might expect is complicated and 
there isn't a firm yes or a firm no 
let's just suffice it to say it's going 
to depend on you it's going to depend on 
the friend and it's going to depend on a 
whole lot of other variables 
um so to give you some context around 
this I believe through personal 
experience that this can 
150 percent be an amazing decision to 
date someone that you're friends with 
now for those of you who might not know 
Andy and I went to high school together 
and we were friends in high school we 
became better friends because we both 
went to college together and we ended up 
living in the same dorm and when you go 
to a school of 40 000 people anybody 
that you know from home instantly 
becomes and even even better friend the 
first day of college so we became good 
friends good friends I came in with the 
boyfriend into college who went to the 
Naval Academy and he came in with the 
girlfriend who went to Madison and we 
bonded over our long-distance 
relationships and we started studying 
together we hung out together and 
everybody that knew us told us you two 
are meant to be together and we're like 
oh my gosh no I'm like he's more like a 
girlfriend than a guy friend to me right 
and I always had a boyfriend so I 
rotated through guys and he was there 
for all of it and one day when I started 
to get my dating mental house in order 
um I started I put together the 
predecessor to the Smart dating Academy 
marriage map which was my own process to 
look at all of my relationships what 
worked what didn't work what drew me to 
these people 
um what was their responsibility in the 
breakup what was mine and so through 
this whole host of analyzes that we 
still do today it led me to look at Andy 
in a different light and suffice it to 
say that a year later we started dating 
three years later we got engaged and 
we've now been married for over 25 years 
so I believe 
um and I wanted to give you that context 
to let you know I have a lot of 
experience around this topic so 
um but that was us and that doesn't 
necessarily mean that it's going to be 
you so let's take a step back if you're 
friends with somebody and you're 
debating dating that and uh I don't know 
if it's going to ruin the friendship or 
not remember you've got some key 
advantages in this scenario already 
you've seen this person you've observed 
this person in different contexts 
different scenarios for months years or 
decades right you've seen their goods 
you've seen their beds you've seen their 
highs their lows you know when they're 
and when they have work when they're out 
of work whatever it is but you've seen 
this person kind of at their rawest 
especially if you're really good friends 
the way Andy and I were so so here's a 
list of 
eight things to consider 
if dating a particular friend is going 
to ruin your friendship or if it can be 
good for you so the first thing I want 
you to consider is what's changed for 
you what's making you attracted to this 
person now right did you witness them 
doing something that you found very 
alluring or intoxicating did something 
they say just checked according you and 
made you feel really good about yourself 
and maybe tipped your feelings over the 
line right what changed I want you to 
make sure sure that you aren't just 
hating the dating process you're not 
hating being single and you're just 
using this person as Mr or Miss right 
now versus Mr Miss Right which is what I 
advocate for because that's definitely 
not a good thing and if you are just 
bored or lonely or think this is just 
like a casual thing you can do and you 
know maybe be friends with benefits or 
really start dating them but you're not 
super serious about it that move will 
probably most likely end up with the 
relationship that is a dumpster fire and 
will end the Friendship so really 
understand what is making you want to 
date this person and put the mirror up 
to yourself and really hold yourself 
accountable or if you need to talk to a 
friend talk to a family member schedule 
a consultation with the therapist or a 
coach and really talk through why you're 
considering dating one of your friends 
and is it healthy for you now 
the second thing I want you to think 
about this is a friend and you've 
observed them how did they treat other 
people that they've been in 
relationships with were they good to 
them did they cheat on them were they 
ghosters did they talk badly about them 
what was this person like in other 
relationships because guess what dear 
friend I don't want you to think you're 
so special that you're going to change 
somebody people show us who they are 
it's up to us to believe them if you 
don't like the way that they have showed 
up in their previous 
relationships right maybe consider 
keeping this at a friendship level 
because if this person doesn't have a 
good track record and cheats on and 
ghosts and breaks up with people or 
maybe is emotionally avoided they might 
not be a good relationship bet for you 
and dating them might or probably will 
cause your friendship to end now the 
third thing that I want you to think 
about and is when they've broken up with 
people how did those breakups happen and 
how are the relationships with the 
people that they've broken up with I 
know when Andy and I were considering 
dating one of the conversations that I 
remember us having at 22 is well you 
know and we had no skeletons in our 
closets because we had been friends with 
each other he knew everybody I did I 
knew everybody he dated and so we both 
said to each other like we're both 
pretty nice rational people we don't 
burn bridges in our relationships we've 
been pretty honest with their breakups 
which has led to us being cordial or 
even friendly with our exes so we 
figured well neither of us leave a trail 
of blood and disasters so I think we'll 
be okay right and so really think about 
how is this person's relationship with 
people that they've broken up with right 
if somebody's coming back to slash their 
tires or something like that you might 
want to consider just keeping this a 
friendship or thinking I don't know this 
friendship might be ruined because this 
person isn't good relationship material 
now the fourth thing that I want you to 
think about right we can get so 
intoxicated and sucked in because we 
know this person we know their struggles 
we know their ups and their downs the 
insides of their daily lives maybe you 
both like art maybe you both like to 
watch the same things on TV but that 
doesn't necessarily mean that your 
friendship could be a good relationship 
it means you have fun together as 
friends what I want you to think about 
instead is do you value the same things 
do you both want similar things out of 
life do you value honesty do you value 
ambition do you value extended family 
what is it that you both value and are 
you aligned with that so the fact that 
you're listening to this podcast maybe 
take some time to really introspect 
about your potential friend that could 
turn into something more do we value the 
same things and if you don't know that 
start to poke around to find out what 
this person values right where do they 
want to be in five years ten years 
what's their idea of success right you 
want to know these things before you hop 
into a relationship with someone based 
on you know just premises that might not 
be important for a romantic relationship 
now the fifth thing to think about 
before you you know is dating a friend 
gonna ruin the relationship right you 
want to really talk about and think 
about this particular friend do you like 
their other friends do you like the 
people they hang out with besides you so 
if this person is hanging out with a 
bunch of slim shadys you know people 
that aren't good people that influence 
them in a negative way you know that's 
just waiting to come back and bite you 
so if you don't like their other friends 
then I would say really consider if this 
friendship is something that you want to 
turn into a relationship because I'm 
playing the long game here right the 
title of this podcast is Will dating a 
friend ruin the Friendship I'm saying 
look at the Friendship but look at the 
things that are important in dating and 
if these things don't align before you 
you turn the Friendship into a 
relationship then you're going to be in 
much better shape for having not done 
that for listening to this now number 
six 
we're good for 
good for good partners for each other 
good good friends are one thing but do 
your skills complement each other where 
you're strong are they weak were you 
there weak are you strong maybe they're 
more extroverted are you more 
introverted right they're super bold but 
you're the softer side of them do your 
skills complement each other would you 
be good partners maybe you're terrible 
with money and you want someone who's 
going to be good with money and keep 
your financial house in order maybe 
you're messy and you want someone who's 
more neat think about these things and 
look at the person that you're friends 
with Through The Eyes of being in a 
relationship with them so then you don't 
take a friendship and try to convert it 
into a relationship that doesn't work 
out that's going to end up in flame so 
set the thing the seventh thing that I 
want you to think about is do you like 
their habits do you like the way they 
live their lives on a daily basis do you 
like what they do when they wake up in 
the morning do you like the fact that 
they work out every day right do you 
like what they do for work do you 
respect what they do for work are they 
consistent with that so really think 
about what would it be like to 
cohabitate and shack up with this person 
do we live similar lives or am I an 
early riser and that person is a total 
late night person right by the time I 
have to get up they're just going to bed 
you might not be compatible in a 
romantic relationship so and the eighth 
and final Point what I want you to think 
about is how is their relationship with 
their family right I know we can't pick 
our families of Origins and I know some 
of us have parents that you know maybe 
we didn't want to have or didn't treat 
us as well as they could they did the 
best that they could but look at how 
this person relates to their extended 
family their mom their dad maybe their 
two moms their Two Dads they're siblings 
they're aunts their uncles do they have 
good relationships with their family do 
they value family can they keep up 
relationships with people right these 
are all so important to think about 
before you take a friendship and just 
kind of mindlessly turn it into a 
relationship because this person is a 
good bet if you don't have these eight 
things thought about and sorted out I 
would say tread carefully before you 
transfer this friendship into a romantic 
relationship because if the Romantic 
relationship doesn't work out your 
friendship will be affected right and 
realize if you decide that you're going 
to move forward with things okay you've 
heard these eight points and you're like 
yeah you know what I got all this I want 
to date this person I want to take our 
friendship to a relationship well no 
that it's going to feel awkward in the 
beginning because you're entering a new 
phase of a relationship you've been 
friends with this person right when you 
make out with this person maybe you 
sleep over at this person's house it's 
going to feel a little bit awkward 
because it's a brand new context for 
this individual friendships are very 
different than romances now remember I 
think a great friendship is the key to a 
long-term romance and a friendship but 
it's got to be a friendship that has 
these things aligned as well before you 
jump into a romance and if you decide to 
flip it over the line like Andy and I 
did so many years ago make sure sure 
that you're so honest with each other at 
every step don't hold anything back 
honesty and being able to use your voice 
and having communication in this 
romantic relationship is going to be so 
important for you don't revert back to 
Old patterns where you don't have a 
voice or you're afraid of saying 
something because you're afraid this 
person is going to leave you trust your 
instincts and trust that you can use 
your voice because if this is a friend 
they're going to want to know your 
honest truth at every step of the game 
and no guys no matter what when you 
convert a friendship to a relationship I 
hope it stands the test of time like 
mine did but realize that even with best 
intentions if your romantic relationship 
doesn't work out and you can go back to 
being friends understand that you're not 
going to have the same friendship you 
had before the romance started for most 
people that friendship evolves into 
something different maybe you won't feel 
as close maybe one of you caught 
stronger feelings for the other but just 
know that your relationship will come 
out the other side different than it is 
now and you can remain remain friends if 
you're both careful but it's definitely 
going to be a different relationship so 
I hope today these eight points answer 
your question about will dating a friend 
ruin the Friendship well play the long 
game think about these eight things 
before you decide to convert this 
friendship into something that you want 
somebody that you want to date but if 
these eight things all align then I 
think for both of you and that's key 
these things have to align for both of 
you that you have a really good shot of 
taking an amazing friendship and turning 
it into a romance that will stand the 
test of time so I wish you all that as 
well if you haven't yet subscribed to 
our newsletter go to 
smartdatingacademy.com and fill out any 
contact form follow me on Instagram at 
smartdating Academy and if you're really 
ready to take a leap into dating then 
schedule a one-on-one consultation 
invest in yourself buy one on our 
website with me for 30 or 60 Minutes or 
jump into our VIP coaching program for 
three six or 12 months that's where you 
will make the biggest changes of your 
life for the positive trust me I've been 
doing this for 14 years I will wrap you 
in pink sparkly bubble wrap and make 
sure that you don't get hurt along the 
way so I look forward to talking to you 
again next week on another loving dating 
and relationship topic and until then 
have a beautiful week 


foreign 
[Music] 
dating Academy podcast I'm bellagande 
the founder of Smart dating Academy and 
your host I started Smart dating Academy 
in 2009 because I had this crazy Knack 
of giving people dating advice that 
actually worked that I took I've been 
married for almost 25 years and now my 
company helps people to date smarter and 
to find love this podcast is meant to 
bring more love into your life no matter 
where you are and what you do and we're 
here to bring more life into your love 
let's jump right into it today 
we're going to talk about the n-word 
it's a different n-word that you might 
be thinking about I didn't even think 
that until it came out of my mouth 
um but the n-word I'm talking about is a 
word that is very easily thrown around 
about our exes about people we've dated 
about people were related to people that 
we work with people that we work for 
people that we're related to and that 
word is three syllables and it's 
narcissist 
how many of you raise your hand know a 
narcissist or think you might know a 
narcissist 
or maybe just maybe 
you dated a narcissist 
or maybe you married a narcissist or 
wait maybe you married and divorced to 
narcissists or three narcissists I've 
had someone come to me that had had five 
husbands before she found her last and 
final one so the word narcissist 
do we use it right do we know what it 
means I think a lot of times what we 
mean is that this person that I am 
referring to as a narcissist is a jerk 
maybe kind of an a-hole you know what I 
mean now is that person just a jerk or 
an a-hole or are they truly a narcissist 
so a lot of times 
they might just be a jerk who's even 
acting like a narcissist and let's face 
it what one of the tenets of being a 
narcissist it's low self-esteem number 
one but it's also being very 
self-absorbed and at the end of the day 
human beings were inherently selfish 
right many of us learn to nurture learn 
to give learn to be interdependent with 
others but at the end of the day we were 
born screaming crying you know to get 
our needs met by our parents we were 
born selfish now just because we can be 
selfish doesn't make us a narcissist 
right narcissism has 
um this is called the NPD it's 
narcissistic personality disorder and 
it's diagnosed by a clinician by a 
therapist a psychiatrist or a 
psychologist and it is I'll read you 
what it says here narcissistic 
personality disorder is a pattern 
pattern of grandiosity Need for 
admiration and lack of empathy for the 
diagnostic and statistic Manual of 
mental disorders the 
DSM-5 so it is a personality disorder it 
is considered mental illness some people 
may have a genetic predisposition to it 
some people may not but it is a it is a 
very toxic painful thing to live with 
and for those of you who have lived with 
someone who has been diagnosed with NPD 
or should have been diagnosed with NPD 
it's really brutal so I'm gonna read you 
straight and tell you from the DSM-5 
okay what this says is a pervasive 
pattern of grandiosity basically fantasy 
or behavior they exaggerate achievements 
expects to be recognized as you Superior 
so that's the first thing a pervasive 
pattern of someone who fantasizes 
themselves to be amazing they lie about 
their achievements and they want to be 
recognized as Superior okay now you've 
got to have at least five of the 
following characteristics that one has a 
grandiose sense of self-importance or 
number two is preoccupied with fantasies 
of success power Brilliance beauty or 
perfect love number three believes that 
they are special and can only be 
understood or should only associate with 
other special people or special 
institutions number four requires 
excessive admiration number five has a 
sense of entitlement such as 
unreasonable expectation a favorable 
treatment or compliance with his or her 
expectations number six is exploitative 
and takes advantage of others to achieve 
their own ends number 7 lacks empathy 
and is unwilling to identify with the 
needs of others number eight is often 
envious of others or believes that 
others are envious of them and number 
nine shows arrogant haughty behaviors 
and attitudes right so you've got to 
have five out of nine of those in a 
variety of contexts to be diagnosed and 
according to therapists people with 
narcissistic personality disorder can be 
some of the most aggressive and most 
challenging patients that they have but 
people often ask me 
well you help us make sure that we don't 
end up with a narcissist again or ever 
but what happens Bella if a narcissist 
comes to Smart dating Academy let me 
tell you this 
narcissists never think that they have a 
problem narcissists don't think that 
they need a coach or a therapist you are 
always the problem they are always the 
victim right everybody else woe is me my 
wife sucks my husband's socks my boss 
has it out for me my colleagues they 
tried it they're trying to malign me 
they don't want me to be successful 
whatever it is 
narcissists always play the victim they 
have nothing to change so they don't 
seek out a service like mine okay now 
this is what the DSM says narcissistic 
personality disorder is now some of 
these may sound familiar to you but let 
me tell you how we've kind of made this 
more comprehensible in the dating world 
we have on our website 
smartdatingacademy.com a little 
infographic that you can download which 
is seven clues that you were dating or 
in a relationship with a narcissist what 
are the telltale signs to look out for 
right now what I'll tell you is it's an 
interesting thing it's an interesting 
name right because narcissists are named 
after the Greek mythical figure 
narcissus who fell in love with his own 
image right that's who it was narcissus 
wasn't the only one who fell in love 
with himself everyone who came across 
him loved him as well right so we talk 
about narcissists one of the first 
things that we tell our clients to watch 
out for in the dating world is typically 
they can be 
extremely Charming they can be well 
dressed charismatic Life of the Party 
okay and who doesn't want to be around 
that person they're like the chandelier 
that lights up the room or lights up the 
party great storytelling they Regale 
everybody with their tails but now if 
you look at it on the flip side now that 
you know just because somebody's really 
charming and charismatic does this 
person want to be the center of 
attention and if somebody else joins in 
the conversation or tries to divert The 
Narcissist from whatever they're talking 
about do they get upset do they hijack 
the conversation back to themselves a 
narcissist wants to be a center the 
center of all attention and they want 
the conversation to focus on one person 
me me me me me me me me 
right that was lovely and a little Out 
Of Tune sorry about that that so and now 
the second way to really detect in your 
dating life that someone is narcissistic 
or maybe a full-blown NPD 
narcissist 
is they're very selfish now I know five 
minutes ago I just said that we're all 
born selfish and that all humans are 
selfish and let's just all be honest we 
can act selfishly that's fine it's our 
DNA it's how we survive in the world if 
we weren't selfish we wouldn't we 
wouldn't have gotten our needs met when 
we were infants we cried and we screamed 
and we hollered and we kicked our feet 
and moved our you know kind of pounded 
our fists until we got what we want 
right and that's just part of being 
humans we have to survive we have to 
survive life on this Earth and get our 
needs met but with the narcissist it's 
different they are incredibly selfish 
and often if not always selfish 
pervasively selfish let's say you can 
give and give and give and they might 
say I'm a giver and you're a taker and 
you give some more because you're like 
oh my God all I want to do is give let 
me make you your lunch let me make your 
dinner and I'm going to clean up and I'm 
going to work a job whatever you do is 
never ever enough because they are one 
thing and one thing only selfish right 
you can give you can cater to their 
every whim hand foot down on your knees 
but they will say what it's still not 
enough you are a taker right you're 
always wrong and they're always right 
that's how it can manifest in your 
dating life okay so incredibly Charming 
maybe and now there are also the covert 
narcissists who may not be life of the 
party that can be like the dark Broody 
ones that kind of sit there and you 
think oh wow they're really charming and 
aloof and can also be narcissistic so 
they don't always have to be the life of 
the party but they often can be right A 
lot of people that you see that are very 
public figures you know sometimes 
politicians famous media people you know 
all I'm sure people around them might 
say 
might be NPD diagnosable right so they 
typically like the Limelight they want 
to be the center of attention and having 
people cater to all their whims now not 
everybody who's out in the public is a 
narcissist at him your present company 
included but you know you I think you're 
gonna get what I mean about this level 
of selfishness that they have now 
number three and this came out of what I 
read in the DSM they have an exaggerated 
sense of self-importance what does that 
mean they believe that they are special 
and that special people like them 
maybe they're incredibly smart or 
incredibly successful or incredibly 
blank blank blank but they live in A 
League of Their Own 
none of us measure up to that league and 
they should only associate with people 
of that equivalent status they should we 
should part the ocean for them to walk 
into a room they don't need to wait in 
lines life has velvet ropes for them 
they shouldn't have to wrap around a 
corner waiting to get into the coolest 
newest bar they feel that they are 
entitled because of who they are to walk 
right in they deserve special treatment 
that is a narcissist they have an 
exaggerated sense of self-importance 
it's not that this person really is 
someone Super Famous and someone who has 
an Entourage and all of that this person 
is a regular Joe or Jane schmoe but they 
believe 
delusionally that they have this sense 
of self-importance right so that's a 
rough rough thing to live with and to be 
around I've seen people like that not 
fun at all all and it certainly isn't 
for the fun for the people that are in 
their orbit and now narcissism what did 
I say when we first kicked off it's 
ultimately a personality disorder and a 
mental illness right so and it's sadly 
born out of incredibly low self-esteem 
isn't that ironic though because they 
have this grandiose sense of self right 
they think that they're amazing their 
life of the party they have an 
exaggerated sense of self but what it 
comes down to ultimately is a very very 
low self-esteem they don't love 
themselves they don't think anything of 
themselves which is why they have to 
create all these delusions of grandeur 
and what do they need from us as their 
friends as their kids as their Partners 
as their as their boyfriends as their 
girlfriends husbands wives they need 
constant compliments and adulation okay 
they always want to hear how amazing 
they are why don't you tell me how great 
I am are you jealous of me right I'm so 
amazing and you just can't tell me that 
right people are just jealous they just 
don't they can't give me the compliments 
I deserve they constantly need accolades 
they need compliments all the time but 
they never give them out 
unless they want something from you and 
when a narcissist wants something from 
you 
lo and behold look out they are Charming 
they are intoxicating they will 
compliment you they will love bomb you 
they will tell you everything you have 
ever dreamed of reading more romantic 
than a Harlequin romance novel more 
romantic than any rom-com that you've 
ever seen they will love bomb you tell 
you all of the things you couldn't be 
more gorgeous you couldn't be more sexy 
blah blah blah all of the things but 
ultimately it's all a ruse to get what 
they want and at that point it could be 
you because you're the object of their 
affection but at a certain point a 
narcissist will turn on you and at that 
point you will be left completely 
Gaslight you have no idea what just 
happened to you yesterday you were the 
bee's knees the cats meow and today 
you're annoying you're depressing and 
you're a terrible partner and you're 
like wait what what what just happened 
Okay so 
if I haven't convinced you by now that 
narcissists are not good bets for 
relationships ladies and gentlemen 
narcissists are not good bets for 
relationships right and both men and 
women 
unfortunately can have chronic 
attractions to narcissists especially if 
we grew up with one or maybe two parents 
or maybe it was a sibling if we were 
surrounded and and were in a close 
relationship growing up with someone who 
was narcissistic chances are we 
understand that behavior and we're 
comfortable with that behavior it 
doesn't mean that we like it we like the 
flashes in the pan good parts of what 
that person can bring to our life but 
they are not good bets for relationships 
and if you find yourself thinking oh my 
gosh I think my mom was a narcissist or 
my brother was a narcissist and you have 
this chronic attraction and every time 
you think you've won and you've met 
someone and this person is not a 
narcissist and they're amazing and I 
Know It And I Know It And I Know It And 
then all of a sudden you'll end up flat 
on your back four months later or maybe 
six months later or four years later and 
you're like what the hell just happened 
I was Bamboozled all over again you may 
have a dating pattern that needs 
intervention and a good intervention 
usually therapy and coaching are what's 
necessary to have that intervention to 
stop being attracted to dating and 
allowing narcissists into your life okay 
so now we've been over my four things 
about narcissists I've got a couple more 
narcissist like I I read you earlier 
from the DSM they lack empathy okay 
they have zero empathy a true narcissist 
can not feel the feelings of others they 
cannot step into your shoes they cannot 
understand what it was like when your 
parents disinvited you for Thanksgiving 
they have no capacity to get into your 
shoes they have no idea how to 
understand 
what you were going through at work on a 
day-to-day basis in the environment that 
you're in maybe your boss is rough maybe 
your colleagues aren't listening to you 
but your partner has no empathy they're 
like man must be your fault I can't 
imagine it they have no 
idea they have no ability to think what 
was that person be feeling because 
ultimately all they can think about is 
themselves they have zero empathy now 
you hear about like serial killers and 
people like kids that look like they 
hurt animals and you know do evil things 
to animals and other kids right that is 
clearly lacking zero empathy that is 
like anti-social psychotic behavior 
probably different than someone who is 
you know Garden variety narcissist but 
keep in mind that they don't have 
empathy and most importantly with 
relation to you they don't have empathy 
they don't care what you feel because 
it's all about them and it is so so so 
so so hard to live with someone who has 
zero empathy and for those of you out 
there that have lived with this or are 
living with this I'm putting my arms 
around you right wrapping you up in a 
pink sparkly love based hug telling you 
you are amazing and I see you and I have 
empathy for what you're going through 
and there is another way you don't have 
to deal with this forever right and if 
you've just extricated yourself from a 
relationship with a narcissist kudos to 
you get some help get some guard rails 
around you call me to put those 
boundaries around you so that you don't 
get sucked right back in there remember 
fifty percent of first marriages end in 
divorce 67 percent you guys second 
marriages end in divorce and 74 percent 
of third marriages why are we doing this 
why because we seek out what's 
comfortable and for you if you have 
narcissism in your childhood or your 
early relationships and this is sounding 
like oh my God this is making sense 
maybe you have a pattern turn definitely 
definitely definitely seek help get 
yourself into counseling get yourself a 
coach if you get into the dating world 
that is what we do we're in the weeds 
looking at red flags we have dating 
scorecards you're filling things out 
what was good what was not good what 
were the green flags what were the red 
flags here so that we keep you out of 
Harm's Way okay and I have two more 
points from Smart dating Academy about 
narcissism and how it can manifest in 
your dating life it can manifest in a 
lot of ways 
um but rage right you don't do what they 
want and they rage and I'm not talking 
Garden variety like oh that hurt my 
feelings I'm talking like take a 
microwave and throw it across the room 
rage they have fits of anger and 
volatility and they say awful mean 
things to you they can swear they can 
insult you they throw things they hit 
and for the most trivial of reasons 
maybe because you moved a glass from 
where they wanted it and you moved it 
six inches over and they have a complete 
hissy fit tantrum rage not acceptable if 
this sounds familiar and you're starting 
to check the boxes here you might just 
have been in a relationship with the 
narcissist and seven like I said blame 
blame is a big big thing that you will 
see out of narcissus again they never 
take responsibility for themselves why 
because they view themselves as the 
victim right low self-esteem grandiose 
sense of importance they think it's 
always going to be your fault they have 
no accountability for when things go 
wrong they they never hurt your feelings 
they just say the truth directly right 
and if you get your feelings hurt you're 
weak you're a wuss it's all your problem 
it's the blame game it's going to be 
your fault it's going to be your kid's 
fault it's going to be their parents 
fault it's going to be your parents 
fault it's going to be their boss's 
fault whatever it is they will blame you 
for anything that you're doing 
narcissist the way I often explain this 
to my clients you guys is there's givers 
and there's takers 
right and we all want to be in 
relationships that are interdependent 
and reciprocal where we give and we're 
given to where we take right and we're 
giving though that's a balanced 
relationship it's like imagining 
yourself on a seesaw you go up you come 
down you go up you come down right it's 
the same thing in a healthy relationship 
but when all you're doing is giving if 
you're the giver and some people like to 
call that codependent right there and 
there's a lot of words around that but 
if you find yourself to be a giver a 
nurturer and you are magnetized towards 
takers you may have a dating pattern 
number one okay and I see that so often 
and often if you were in a helping 
profession teachers nurses chefs coaches 
service providers we give of ourselves 
all day long and give and give more and 
help and answer the late night emails 
and texts and take calls and we always 
want to help and we do podcasts and we 
do these things to help people often 
givers 
like takers because they can give and 
give and give but ultimately what 
happens is it's unfulfilling because at 
a certain point you need to receive 
something back and here's the Rub With 
The Narcissist they don't know how to 
give unless it's the very beginning and 
they're trying to intoxicate you and 
love bomb you they don't know how to 
give long term you cannot have a 
satisfying relationship with the 
narcissist and so often I see people 
coming into my practice and telling me 
God Bella if I could just get the person 
back that they were for the first four 
months of the relationship where did 
that person go guys that was an illusion 
that person never freaking existed that 
person was shape-shifted into someone 
who was transfixed with you who was 
intoxicated with you and by you and that 
person became a different person but 
that's not truly who they were then at 
some point some other red glossy object 
caught their attention or someone else 
tickled their fancy or they just decided 
right now you breathe the wrong way they 
didn't like the way you exhaled they 
didn't like the way you put the peanut 
butter back or put your shoes back in 
the Shoe Closet and now you're dead to 
them and that person who was intoxicated 
with you it's like a Houdini illusion a 
David Copperfield illusion the Statue of 
Liberty disappeared and so did that 
amazing person that first existed and 
love bombed you that person never 
existed and if this sounds familiar to 
you it is okay to extricate yourself 
from this relationship and so often when 
you were with a narcissist they will 
often make you believe that you cannot 
live without them it's abusive nobody's 
gonna date you you're ugly you're fat 
you're poor you need me you're gonna be 
out on the street you're gonna be 
homeless nobody's gonna accept you and 
all of your baggage are you kidding I'm 
the best you're gonna do so you might as 
well stick around here that is so untrue 
that's part of the gaslighting those are 
part of the lies that they're telling 
you to get you to believe those and to 
stay in that horribly toxic relationship 
so if these patterns sound familiar to 
you and you've been with somebody like 
this and you're entering the dating 
world and you need some help around this 
listen to this podcast listen to my 
Instagram live follow us at smartdating 
Academy go to my website 
smartdatingacademy.com download that 
infographic and continue to tune in to 
these podcasts let me know send me 
emails bellat smartdatingacademy.com 
were you in a relationship with a 
narcissist what was it like how did you 
heal yourself how did you get yourself 
out of it what are you afraid of we want 
to hear from you we want to help you and 
so I hope that you took everything and 
then some and took notes on this episode 
today and again people behaving 
selfishly jerkily or like an a-hole may 
not truly be a narcissist in the 
beginning of this episode I gave you the 
nine things in the DSM remember 
grandiose sense of self-importance 
preoccupied with fantasies of success 
power Brilliance beauty or perfect love 
believes that they are special requires 
excessive admiration has a sense of 
entitlement unreasonable expectation of 
favorable treatment is exploitative 
takes advantage of others lacks empathy 
is often envious of others and believes 
that others are jealous of them and 
shows arrogant haughty behaviors and 
attitudes and that's an important one 
narcissists you can often tell a 
narcissist by how they treat people that 
they consider or beneath them how did 
they talk to the wait staff how do they 
talk to the hostess how do they talk to 
the valet how do they talk to the dry 
cleaners how do they talk to customer 
service on the phone when a narcissist 
believes that they are self-important 
and that you are beneath them they can 
become very rageful and very abusive 
very quickly if you are out on a date 
with somebody and they start talking 
down to the wait staff if they start 
talking down to the ballet treating them 
rudely but they're really nice to you 
pay attention trust your gut that is a 
red flag I'm hoisting my red flag my 
kids know I do this when I put my hand 
up in a fist like I'm holding a flag in 
my hand that means red flag Behavior so 
I'm hoisting up the red flag this whole 
segment has been full of red flags and 
red flags of the worst kind I hope that 
you after listening to this feel so much 
more confident in the signs of a 
narcissists and maybe you're maybe 
you're related to a narcissist and it's 
someone you can't break up with maybe 
it's your sibling maybe it's an uncle 
maybe it's a neighbor maybe it's 
somebody that you work with but what I 
want you to do is know that that person 
is a narcissist you're not the crazy one 
this is their own mental health their 
mental issues maybe their disorders that 
they're kind of spraying onto you there 
is nothing wrong with you the best thing 
you can do is to narcissist proof 
yourself from this person is spend less 
time minimize your time around this 
person or around these people as much as 
you can so I wish you a narcissist-free 
day and until we meet again on the next 
episode continue to tune in give us a 
favorable review please if you love this 
I would love nothing more than to hear 
what you thought about this it makes all 
the difference in the world I Don't Need 
a New Year's I don't need a Christmas 
present I don't need a birthday present 
just drop us a great review I love you 
guys and until next time we will see you 
soon 


