[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
happy Wednesday smart daters I hope you 
have been enjoying this week of multiple 
podcast episodes 
um in honor of you and in honor of the 
holidays and most importantly in honor 
of the beginning of peak dating season 
I'm excited to be here today with you 
and if you guys have been listening for 
the past year and or even for the past 
two days and you heard about the best 
dating apps of 2023 if you heard about 
why you want to create a funnel maybe 
you saw me on Good Morning America 
yesterday talking about boosting your 
love life what I want to tell you is 
join our online dating love lab which is 
Sunday January 8th where you will be 
completely in pole position to take 
advantage of being the best version of 
yourself online starting Sunday January 
8th which is the busiest online dating 
day of the year so go to 
smartdatingacademy.com go to the menu 
click the online dating love lab and 
invest in yourself it's the best 
Christmas present you could give 
yourself so I hope to see you there it's 
a very small group on on Zoom from 1 to 
4 pm Central on a Sunday instead of 
watching football or doing whatever it 
is you were thinking of doing getting 
ready for work on Monday come join me 
you'll meet me personally it's a small 
group of people and we will teach you 
everything you need to know and have a 
full hour for Q a so now 
speaking of dating speaking of 
information you want to know I wanted to 
do an episode today which is a top 10 
reasons or top 10 signs that you can 
tell of somebody is a player are you 
ready for these because I'm ready to 
give them to you and I'm going to bang 
through these because I promised that 
these were going to be many episodes so 
I'm going to tell you reason number one 
how do you tell if somebody is a player 
and I'm not going to be gender specific 
a lot of times people assume guys are 
the ones that are players there are 
plenty of women players out there as 
well so if I go back and forth between 
he or she please don't get tripped up on 
my pronouns please don't be offended I'm 
just going to say a player is going to 
play play play play play I'm gonna quote 
Taylor Swift today and always because I 
like so many of you am a Swifty so 
um reason number one if this person 
let's say somebody you've come across 
how do you know if they're a player 
reason number one if they are too smooth 
in their delivery they know exactly what 
to say they know exactly what to do 
they've walked up to you they're 
confident they know how to make you feel 
good they're charismatic they're flirty 
they know how to be the center of 
attention they know exactly what to say 
chances are if they're super smooth and 
they're super confident and they know 
exactly how to push your buttons and to 
get you out of blood to blush chances 
are they play this game pretty often and 
they do it with others so again not 
always but keep this in mind if they are 
smooth practice makes perfect so clearly 
they might have been practicing on many 
many other people reason number two if 
you're on a dating app okay you can 
often read what somebody's interested in 
we have our clients looking for only 
people that know what they want and that 
is a serious relationship or marriage 
whatever that is if somebody checks off 
I don't know what I want or I'm just 
looking for something fun or something 
casual that's not your person right and 
if somebody says to you on a date yeah 
I'm just looking for something fun I'm 
just looking for something casual 
chances are they just want to play 
around they are not looking for anything 
serious and here's the Insidious thing 
they might say when they say that 
they're not looking for something 
serious they might start to play you 
like they are they call you all the time 
they text you all the time they're 
wanting to see you five days a week and 
they act like a boyfriend or a 
girlfriend or a partner but remember if 
they said they're not looking for 
something serious and they're just 
looking for something fun this is how 
they're going to behave when something 
is not serious or not fun so protect 
your own heart and know if they say they 
don't want something serious they don't 
know what they want in a relationship 
believe them okay reason number three 
you might be dating a player if as the 
days and weeks go on they are not 
consistent about keeping in touch you 
might hear from them 70 times in a day 
and then maybe nothing for six days in a 
row it could be hours it could be days 
or longer they don't walk their walk 
they don't talk their talk it feels like 
it's hot and cold that's a sign that 
this person might be a player and is 
playing with lots of other people 
consistency and reliability are 
something that's super important to me 
and my team in the dating process as we 
coach our clients towards finding 
somebody who is a really really good lid 
to your pot consistency and reliability 
aren't as sexy as mind-blowing chemistry 
but I'm telling you long term those are 
things you want so if somebody is hot 
cold doesn't do what they say they're 
gonna do just you know again and just 
disappears for long period of time you 
might be dating a player reason number 
four okay 
they don't go out on real dates with you 
it started physically and all they want 
to do is hook up with you at your house 
or their house they don't take you out 
on real dates they're not asking you to 
go out to dinner to lunch to go to a 
movie to go ice skating if it all 
revolves around sex hooking up and being 
physical this person might be a player 
now if you're not sure ask them hey we 
do a lot of stuff at home could we go 
out on a date if they say why what's the 
point in doing that when we could just 
be here and I could just devour you from 
head to toe remember it that's kind of a 
red flag does this person not want to be 
seen with you in public or do they have 
a boyfriend or a girlfriend who knows 
what's going on but you might be with 
the player if they don't take you out on 
real dates or want to go on real dates 
with you um reason number five or that 
sign number five I should say say that 
you're potentially dating someone who's 
a player they're not talking about the 
future they're talking about five 
minutes from now or they're stuck in the 
past but they're not saying what they 
want in two weeks one month three months 
six months if they're only talking short 
term and it doesn't seem like they're 
talking about anything in the future 
with you you might be dealing with 
someone who is a player reason number 
six now we're going to start to get 
really good you catch them in lies they 
might be saying oh you know what I've 
got a girls night tonight I'm gonna be 
out with the girls but then when you 
check her out on social media she's out 
with two guys what does that mean if you 
catch somebody in little lies or big 
lies it's a sign that this person is 
very skilled at that and they're giving 
you a bunch of excuses this person is 
not telling you the truth because they 
are potentially playing you okay reason 
number number seven and this is a big 
one if you are out with someone and 
you're always doing things and there 
doesn't seem to be a real depth of 
emotion to this person you're not 
getting to know them better you don't 
feel like they can emote they can 
express they love they have emotions if 
this person seems like a bot or a robot 
or an automaton there's no feelings of 
emotion you might be dealing with 
somebody who is a player because this is 
all they really have they don't want to 
connect with anybody emotionally they 
just want quick easy relationships where 
there's no depth of intimacy no real 
connection that's the sign you might be 
dating a player reason number eight that 
you could be dating a player sign number 
eight they say that they've cheated on 
people in the past it astounds me even 
at Smart dating Academy with our clients 
that get into conversations with new 
people that they're dating how many 
people are like yeah you know I cheated 
on my ex because they were never home or 
I cheated on my ex because blah blah 
blah the facts and the data is all there 
you guys you got to listen to it there's 
really if somebody's telling you that 
they've cheated on their exes chances 
are what 
say it again for the people in the back 
they'll probably cheat on you too okay 
now sign number nine that you might be 
dating a player again they don't 
introduce you to their friends they 
might want to meet your friends and come 
into your world but they are not 
allowing you into their world you're not 
meeting their people they only want to 
do things on their terms right that's a 
sign that you might be dating someone 
who's playing you why because they're 
afraid to have you around their Village 
because it might be like oh my God who's 
he bringing around today oh you should 
have seen the last three girls you 
brought around last week those are red 
flags that this person may be playing 
you may not be serious if you never meet 
significant people in their lives now 
sign number nine 
um and that was sign number nine right 
oops I can't even keep track of myself 
because I want to get through all this 
information for for you and last but not 
least this is now sign number ten they 
always want to be in control and that's 
really often dates are only on their 
terms it's when they want to date you 
they might be inconsistent and you're 
sitting there just waiting for them they 
might cancel five times but then on the 
sixth time they want to date you it's 
always on their terms when they want to 
see you it could be last minute there's 
very little planning but it's always 
always on their terms not on your terms 
you might be dealing with somebody who 
is a player and is not serious about you 
I hope that some of these signs 
resonated with you and that you'll keep 
this episode on replay if you like these 
give us a five star rating 
um give us write a review on how you've 
liked this week and I hope that you are 
getting closer and closer to embracing 
really taking Advan advantage of peak 
dating season and that you're learning a 
lot from these episodes this week share 
this episode with your friends write a 
review and most importantly like I said 
in the beginning of the episode if 
you've been on the fence join the online 
dating love lab for Sunday January 8th 
from 1 pm to 4 P.M on Zoom by your spot 
today it always sells out and you will 
know that you're taking the first grade 
step in learning so much about how to 
find healthy happy love in 2023 I love 
this make sure that you are not getting 
played now you know the top 10 signs 
that you might be with the player and 
certainly make sure that you yourself 
are not emitting any of the player signs 
until tomorrow I'll see you guys soon 
