it's so funny people tend to get into 
the the healing modalities either out of 
they've you know done some work on 
themselves and they've healed everyone 
or they're so altruistic and they want 
to be of service to humanity I did not 
fall into that category my thing was my 
life was such a chaotic mess I dated the 
same person over and over I was in 
really really like high level capital T 
trauma kind of relationships I thought 
the problem was me I'm like Oh my 
picker's just broken I just you know I 
don't know how to pick the right partner 
it's just me and D I didn't know that my 
trauma history was very much informing 
my dating choices and my life choices 
and my work choices so after I don't 
know 10 plus years of banging my head 
around on life I finally got my feet 
under me and then in my early 30s I went 
back to graduate school and became a 
therapist so I did not enter this career 
from a I want to help it's I need help 
and now I've gotten help and now I have 
some fun things to 
share 
