[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to the podcast today I am 
so excited to have with you a neuros 
psychotherapist her name is Britt Frank 
she's the author of the science of stuck 
and you guys know if there's something I 
am passionate about it's getting 
yourself freaking 
unstuck so that you can achieve 
everything you want to in your life you 
can achieve your dreams hell you can 
achieve love because you know that's 
what we're all about at Smart dating 
Academy so Britt welcome to the podcast 
with no further Ado thank you so much 
for having me on I'm so excited about 
this conversation oh my gosh and if you 
guys are wondering okay who is this 
person Britt went to Duke she's got her 
masters from the University of Kansas 
she's an W awardwinning adjunct 
instructor and the author of the science 
of stuck published by penguin random 
house so she's kind of a big deal so 
we're very grateful to have you here 
today so first of all what is a neuros 
psychotherapist and how do you differ 
from a therapist yeah this was kind of 
horrifying for me to discover as a 
client in therapy that therapists aren't 
required to learn about the brain wait 
what they're not no they're not neuros 
psychotherapists are trained in brain 
based like EMDR or somatic work but like 
you can become a licensed therapist and 
never once learn about your brain or 
your nervous system and that is kind of 
wild and it's important people know 
that wow okay interesting so we've had 
some interesting somatic healers on the 
podcast and I'm such a fan of this work 
100% so um okay hey so tell us you know 
what is trauma and what's our trauma 
response like let's just go there oh we 
are in it okay so the thing with trauma 
which is so funny to me that it has be 
we have over indexed on trauma 
culturally it used to be that nobody was 
talking about the three pound lump of 
salt and fat and electricity and water 
in our heads aka the brain and nobody 
was talking about trauma to our 
detriment and now everyone has trauma 
and every everyone's a narcissist and 
everyone is a gaslighter and i' I'd 
rather us be talking too much about this 
stuff than not enough but when it comes 
to things like narcissism gaslighting 
trauma it's helpful if we have a 
definition that we all agree on um the 
definition that I use comes from people 
way smarter than I am who've studied 
this and ad nauseum it trauma at simply 
put anything that's too much too fast or 
too soon for our brain and I call it 
brain indigestion 
because that's really what it is now 
I've had some angry DMS where people are 
like that's minimizing to survivors of 
trauma I'm like listen I have childhood 
sexual trauma I have adult assault 
trauma I have trauma every which way up 
to Tuesday for me not for everyone but 
for me and I'm saying trauma's brain 
indigestion I don't think it minimizes 
the pain or the reality of what people 
go through to call it what it is it 
demystifies it it takes the stigma off 
of it no one thinks twice when they get 
food poisoning that they're going to 
puke their brains out trauma is the same 
way except the vomiting looks like 
anxiety or depression or stress or 
whatever else it may be so trauma is 
anything that is too much for our brains 
to process why I don't know because 
brain's brain because genetics because 
environment because who knows what but 
that is what it is I love that and if 
you're okay going there you mentioned 
you've had your own trauma tell like 
tell us what you know what you're able 
to with regards to how this informed the 
line of work that you're in it's so 
funny people tend to get into the the 
healing modalities either out of they've 
you know done some work on themselves 
and they've healed everyone or they're 
so altruistic and they want to be of 
service to humanity I did not fall into 
that category my thing was my life was 
such a chaotic mess I dated the same 
person over and over I was in really 
really like high level capital T trauma 
kind of relationships I thought the 
problem was me I'm like Oh my picker's 
just broken I just you know I don't know 
how to pick the right partner and it's 
just me and D I didn't know that my 
trauma history was very much informing 
my dating choices and my life choices 
and my work choices so after I don't 
know 10 plus years of banging my head 
around on life I finally got my feet 
under me and then in my early 30s I went 
back to graduate school and became a 
therapist so I did not enter this career 
from a I want to help it's I need help 
and now I've gotten help and now I have 
some fun things to 
share I love that sometimes I think from 
our deepest wounds we can be of deepest 
service to people so it sounds like you 
fall into that category like oh at a 
certain point we pull the oh lever 
on life and that's the inflection point 
that sort of goes wait a second I'm 
going to turn the mirror around and look 
at myself and say okay the common 
denominator and a lot of what's going on 
is me so I need to unwind this and what 
happened to me and why I'm doing the 
things I'm doing exactly and the I'm the 
problem it's me thing gets very victim 
blame me I went there I'm like clearly 
I'm the problem but I didn't understand 
what that meant and really I wasn't the 
problem the injury to my brain the and 
even if you don't have tra like high 
level trauma our brains get conditions 
and patterns to seek out the familiar 
not the healthy our brains are not wired 
for love they are wired for survival and 
they're wired for pattern Rec recogntion 
recognition so if you grow up with these 
really not ideal suboptimal 
relationships your brain's going to be 
programmed to seek those out and it's 
not that you don't have the 
responsibility to manage it but it's not 
a personal weakness none of these things 
are about character or weakness it feels 
comfortable to your nervous system 
exactly to seek out dysfunction right if 
you grew up in a dysfunctional household 
with one or two caregivers that sucked 
right let's just go there or bless their 
hearts they did the best they could for 
the parenting that they got right and so 
you that will have a profound impact on 
the things that you do romantic 
relationships friendships the way we 
respond to our bosses at work the way we 
respond to everybody so I'm so glad 
you're here to help us unwind this I 
like this it's too much too fast too 
soon brain IND suggestion and it can be 
something that some people would call 
you know not so significant all the way 
to sexual trauma physical abuse and all 
of the things exactly and the Too Much 
Too Fast Too Soon Is Not My definition 
it's Dr Peter LaVine who pioneered 
somatic experiencing which is a trauma 
healing modality and it it's such a an 
accurate descriptor like you said not 
everything is going to traumatize us but 
things that you wouldn't think of as 
traumatic have the potential just like 
any food has the potential to give you 
indigestion any experience has the 
potential to give you brain 
indigestion I love that and how has this 
helped you 
personally well I'm married now to a 
very I call him a normie he's like he's 
never had an addiction I have he has 
like really like as healthy as you can 
get while still being human parents and 
siblings I'm like who are these people I 
was so uncomfortable dating a healthy 
person that I had to kind of dip back 
into intensive therapy in order to help 
my brain reorient to what it meant to be 
in a healthy intimate relationship but 
we have a good time now oh I love that 
congratulations I mean so much of what 
we do is focused on exactly that at 
Smart dating Academy it's wrapping 
bubble wrap around our clients that have 
some sort of trauma and protecting them 
from making those bad choices again good 
on you you had you got yourself into 
therapy and because of your education 
you knew hey Houston we have a problem 
I'm not going this feels like I want to 
cut bait and run so we become the uhuh 
you can't cut bait and run maybe he 
feels a little boring right now this is 
really good for you let's give it a few 
more dates let's see how this goes 
because when you're with someone who's 
secure and normally you're like uh 
that's so boring 
does that resonate with you not just 
boring but 
disregulated like this is a man who when 
he's done he goes when he's tired he 
sleeps when he's hungry he eats and so 
if I'm like hey do you want to get 
together and he's like no I need a night 
alone I'm just SP how dare you this is 
true even in our married life I get it 
now but it it's every I was like a live 
wire with no insulation I love the 
bubble wrap analogy because every 
healthy thing he did registered to my 
system as abandonment or rejection or 
whatever and I learned in this 
relationship that skillful adult humans 
can argue without yelling I grew up in a 
yelling house I came from a history of 
yelling relationships and I was like oh 
wait a second there are tools that you 
know not I don't like the word normal 
but just for you know tongue and cheek I 
say normi there are tools that Normy 
people use that render us completely 
capable of both feeling anger without 
yelling feel in sad without trauma 
dumping holy boundaries wow what a 
concept oh sorry can I swear on here 
yeah for sure and it's like learning how 
to use your voice and understanding and 
I work with our clients on this all the 
time conflict isn't inherently bad you 
have to put new lenses on about conflict 
and look at conflict as a way to deepen 
your relationship and to increase your 
skills at successfully navigating 
through it without throwing the 
microwave at your partner without 
screeching out of the driveway right we 
don't have to repeat what we've done 
there are skills that you can do and 
look at conflict as a way to get you to 
a better place wow we disagreed on 
something it's more like a speed bump I 
can get over that verses oh I got 
to drive my car off the cliff right 
now I love that and really the medicine 
for conf lict is curiosity when you can 
stay in a curious place even in the 
midst of conflict The Logical parts of 
your brain stay lit and then we can use 
all these wonderful skills as soon as 
your logic brain switches off and you're 
in that fight flight defensive like 
you're my partner but I want to claw 
your face off and I'm saying everything 
I'm thinking then the Curiosity thing 
goes away so as long as you can maintain 
one toe and curiosity conflict is one of 
the price of a submissions to intimacy 
absolutely you mentioned you know being 
with a normie and how it sort of even 
disregulated you let tell me about in 
general how can this kind of trauma 
that's still in our bodies how can it 
manifest itself in dating and 
relationships in general it can manifest 
in any number of ways you know one of 
the ways one of the most common ways it 
manifests is through symptoms anxiety 
stress overthinking overworking 
overindulging on whatever chemical or 
behavior is your thing you know so those 
are the the obvious ones but and again 
people are like but I don't have trauma 
let's forget like don't call it trauma 
then let's just look at how's the 
relationship working is everything that 
you're seeing in the dating World a 
repetition of the dysfunction then don't 
worry what we call it let's talk about 
what it is and that comes to your 
choices you know with me I was able to 
repair they call it the arousal template 
which is a very clinical way of saying 
who are you picking you know like who 
are you drawn towards and you can sit 
down and consciously work with your 
sense of choice your choice power that 
you don't have to choose into that but 
first you have to identify your patterns 
and then identify your choices and then 
start with whether or not it's you call 
it trauma your brain guy a little dinged 
up and if it if not it wouldn't be 
manifesting in your 
relationships I love that your brain got 
a little dinged up and we need to heal 
your brain and we don't talk about our 
brains as 
healable right and what we know about 
neuroplasticity is that the brain is not 
a static thing that is unchanging your 
brain is constantly learning and growing 
and you can train it to do new thing now 
again to the degree that people have 
safety and access to resources and you 
know like levels of privilege are going 
to inform what some people are able to 
access versus other but that's not an 
internal problem that's a systemic 
problem but your brain can change like 
you can teach your brain I used to be 
addicted to drugs I am no longer 
addicted to drugs and I don't identify 
as an addict like that is not a this is 
who I am for all time um it's a really 
it was both good news and bad news to 
learn that I could be in charge of 
changing my brain because I was in the 
well this is just who I am therefore I 
have no responsibility to change it EK I 
was pissed off at my therapist when 
she's like no you you actually have 
choices here we can change the pattern 
we can change the 
wiring uh and no one can do that for you 
like that's the one thing AI will never 
the machines will never replace the 
internal work necessary to have healthy 
external relationships oh my God how do 
we rewire our 
brains well again we need to know 
question small question no like easy 
peasy you know rewiring your brain 
starts with really a commitment to 
honesty with yourself about yourself 
because even for people that aren't in 
trauma responses or reactions a lot of 
times relational conflict is because of 
incompatibility you know like I'll give 
you an example I am a hardcore introvert 
like I can I can human I can do the 
things but I get my energy from a lone 
time my husband is a hardcore extrovert 
and he needs an exceeding amount of ping 
time we don't have high conflict there 
because he's happy to go out by himself 
or with his friends I'm happy to stay in 
and be alone or whatever but if I was 
with a partner that expected me to join 
them that would be a high conflict 
situation so in order to find compatible 
Partners we have to start with who am I 
how am I why like I'm not a texter I 
would never work in a relationship with 
someone that wanted to text me all day 
I'm like don't talk like call me if you 
need me but I don't like to text and my 
husband doesn't text either so again 
that's a compa it's not right or wrong 
it's just what are you about like if 
you're listening to this it's like what 
are you about and we don't approach Our 
dating life like an architect you don't 
build a house without a blueprint why in 
the world would we think that jumping 
into the dating pool with no plan is GNA 
yield good results I mean I I tried that 
it didn't work I love that no you're 
you're so right it's funny I a friend 
that in fact someone I had on the 
podcast a couple of weeks ago Carly 
Holden she was te she was texting me we 
were talk she said like you should watch 
rewired by Joe dispensa I'm like oh okay 
can rewire I was like wow okay theonis 
is on us there's so much that we can do 
and I loved this because I think you're 
saying and I'm saying it's like at a 
certain point you're like wow the 
responsibility is on me but ladies and 
gentlemen guess what the steering wheel 
is in your hands isn't that amazing look 
at this from a place of oh my God I have 
the power 
to change my actions my responses my 
thoughts my feelings I can do this is it 
easy no is it possible yes I find that 
so liberating I love that so much and I 
didn't actually answer your question of 
how do you do it so if you think of your 
brain I'll go back to that if you think 
of your brain as primarily a pattern 
seek like it looks for patterns so the 
way to interrupt the pattern seeking 
thing is to break patterns in easy ways 
so in other words our brain is set to 
autopilot like that's what it likes and 
so think about how often we're on 
autopilot when we get ready in the 
morning or when we're driving home at 
night change the things that are easy 
change the pant leg you put on in the 
morning change the road you take to work 
change the stations that you listen to 
and that will start shaking up the snow 
globe of the brain and that's where you 
can loosen things up and start rewiring 
but in order to rewire the first step is 
break the 
patterns interesting so breaking even 
let's say food addiction or drug 
addiction patterns obviously but even 
small things you can start to rewire 
your 
brain and the patterns that we have that 
can help with small things and big 
things yeah and I say that as someone 
who uses crystal meth you know like this 
works with crystal meth and it works 
with Revenge bedtime procrastination 
when you know you need to go to sleep 
but you're Doom scrolling till 3: in the 
morning it's the same thing it's we have 
our brains get stuck on Loops of 
differing severity but a loop is a loop 
and the first way you can break it is 
just change the P so if you're here's an 
example if you're sitting on your laptop 
on the couch and it's getting laid and 
you're just sort of stuck on it like a 
YouTube Loop like lift the computer over 
your head and move side to side for two 
seconds that's gonna interrupt your 
pattern switch which side of the couch 
you're sitting on that's going to 
interrupt your pattern and I remember 
when I worked in drugg re 
one of my clients was like this is dumb 
like how am I supposed to quit my heroin 
addiction by changing which pant leg I 
put on I'm like you start small because 
when you start small you get a sense of 
I can I can choose I can do this which 
then gives you a little hit of dopamine 
which then builds up and gives you what 
you need to do the bigger things like we 
can't make big moves until we fill the 
tank our tanks are filled with small WIS 
Little T I call them micro yeses it's 
like you may not be able to change the 
thing but what can you say yes to right 
now in service of changing anything at 
any at when you say yes to any degree to 
anything you're no longer stuck stuck 
becomes unstuck the second you find a 
yes of any size I love that so even 
little things so you dear listener maybe 
put a different shoe on tomorrow and you 
probably what I I find so fascinating in 
listening to you right now Brit is I 
don't even know the scripts that exist 
in my brain I don't know what pant leg I 
put on first I don't know what shoe I 
put on first I don't know wow I always 
drive this way and there's so many 
things I can't remember gosh you know 
like sometimes you sit in the shower 
you're like okay did I wash my face or 
not and then I'll do it again because 
I'm so UNC conscious of what I'm doing 
so maybe it's take the soap in your left 
hand and become conscious of what you're 
doing because it's going to feel really 
freaking weird because I'm a 
right-handed person exactly and using 
your non-dominant hand to do things is 
what it's one of my favorite exercises 
because it's so easy to do it will 
immediately jolt your brain out of 
autopilot and again whether your goal is 
quitting drugs or finding a healthy 
partner or going to the gym or whatever 
launching a business we have to start by 
interrupting autopilot AKA this 
unconscious way we're sort of floating 
around through life because again Choice 
power the ability to respond instead of 
just reacting only happens when you're 
conscious of what's happening in your 
body and in your mind and my favorite 
part about this is like have you noticed 
we've been talking for I don't know 20 
minutes and nowhere in here do we need 
to figure out what happened to you in 
your childhood like well why is this a 
problem why is the most counter 
productive question to start with now 
I'm an analyst by trade I get asking why 
is important but it's not a first step 
task like if a building's on fire you're 
not GNA sit there and be like I wonder 
why this building caught on fire it's 
like get out of the damn building or I I 
went surfing for the first time last 
year and it's like you don't ask why is 
this wave so big you just like duck 
under or get on your board we'll figure 
out why later after you get to shore 
after you get out of the building but 
why is this like this is just not help 
it's start with why is fantastic if 
you're starting a business like Simon Sy 
next work I love like deep respect start 
with why is horrible if you're stuck in 
a behavioral pattern or you're on a 
procrastination Loop or you're in an 
unhealthy intimacy cycle start with why 
is completely useless why is a mile six 
question not a mile one 
question absolutely it's funny you know 
I did some work on WOW why do I eat even 
if I'm not hungry and I've always 
struggled with my weight 20 25 pounds 
here or there and the why was well you 
know your parents didn't provide you 
with comfort in the moment and they 
didn't feel safe so and and which is 
great and fine and I love that because I 
don't know that I knew that but now it's 
the now what exactly now what do you do 
with that so yes so if the building's on 
fire it might be great if you're the 
engineer to know why and where the fire 
might have originated from the rest of 
us just need to run so what are you 
going to do in the face of 10 cookies 
being in front of you do you feel like 
you have to eat every single one to 
clean your plate or can you do something 
have a cookie with your left hand and 
break it into 10 pieces not that easy to 
do and I love that example because 
historically I've had lots of different 
Eating Disorders I've had like the over 
stuff and the under stuff and 
restrictive stuff there are some days 
where 10 cookies on the counter they're 
going to get eaten like I know once I'm 
on a like I am a monster right now I'm a 
chair exactly but what do most people do 
they eat the cookies and then it's well 
you know what's the point I just blew it 
so now I'm gonna go out and eat six 
slices of pizza and have a bottle of 
wine it's like you go into autopilot I 
know me too like fully me too girl wait 
did do you have a camera in my 
kitchen but like let's say you eat the 
and I try to do this now after I eat the 
cookies I do not shame myself I S it's I 
call this the follow your drunk friend 
around the bar exercise like when your 
girlfriend is wasted like if you are in 
college and you're following her around 
to make sure she's safe you're not going 
to logic with her yelling at her is not 
going to work you just sort of hang out 
with her until she gets home after you 
eat the 10 cookies and you're sitting on 
the couch and pain don't yell at 
yourself just be like yeah I know that 
was a bummer it's like you know it's 
going to be okay okay I'm still here I'm 
still going to take care of us I'm still 
going to make sure that we wake up 
tomorrow you know I wonder maybe we can 
have a glass of water right now like 
again it's what's the yes not screw it 
I'll start tomorrow it's what can you 
say yes to in the next 30 seconds 
because that will break the autopilot 
cycle okay I love that so that's pattern 
recognition right now I just ate the 10 
cookies my script would be have the 
pizza have the wine how do I interrupt 
the pattern in that moment so the the 
pizza and the wine comes from the 
internal thought screw it I blew it why 
bother going you know like I'll start 
tomorrow that's a lie like that's a lie 
that is not one you didn't blow it to 
you're not going to start tomorrow I 
didn't start tomorrow none of us start 
tomorrow that's like why the diet 
industry gets to exist because we want 
to be honest honestly if I'm looking at 
10 cookies and I know I'm going to eat 
them I will say this is not GNA feel 
good I I'll say this out loud too 
because you can break autopilot faster 
when you speak out loud my husband gets 
this now but it's true because our heads 
are so full of so many things when you 
say it out loud I am going to binge 
today I am going I am and then you 
access your choice power I don't feel 
very in control right now but I know I'm 
going to eat these so I'm just going to 
say I'm choosing to eat these 10 cookies 
and then once you're done say out loud 
what's my next choice that'll interrupt 
the thought pattern of I blew it it's 
like that's not true you can also ask 
yourself the question how true is this 
thought that I'm thinking is there 
another possible option like is it if 
we're talking just calories in calories 
out 10 cookies is going to equal x 10 
cookies six slices of pizza and a bottle 
of wine is going to equal why so this 
thought of I blew it what's the point is 
not accurate so get honest with yourself 
eat the damn cookies but then find 
something to say yes to in service of 
choice power right and now is there 
something we can look at the cookies and 
I love saying it out loud for example if 
this were me let's be honest I could be 
the 10 cookie person could I look at the 
cookies and say I 
know you want me to think that you're 
going to bring me joy and relaxation and 
comfort right now but I know you're 
tricking me that's a that's an approach 
and that approach is useful there's 
another approach that I I use that I 
really like which is instead of like 
like looking at the thing and putting 
our attention on because we always do 
that right we focus on the food on the 
drug I turn my attention Inward and like 
science has shown that we're kinder to 
other people than we are to ourself so 
talk to yourself as if you were a friend 
oh my God Brit I know that you think 
those 10 cookies are going to make you 
feel better and you know what they 
probably will for a second but then 
honey you're going to feel so sick so I 
I know you're hurting right now but I 
wonder maybe we have five of them and 
then maybe there's another way we can 
figure out what's going on but like you 
can actually dialogue with the voices in 
your head you don't have to shut them up 
you don't have to banish them like 
dialogue with them it's weird and it 
feels awful but again that's good 
familiar is what caused the problem in 
the first place so break the cycle by 
turning your attention Inward and 
talking I want that like my PMS voice is 
I want the cookies and I want the burger 
and I want the fries and I want 
everything and then it's okay like I I 
hear I'm not going to yell at you I'm 
not going to shame I was shamed as a 
child for wanting to eat young food like 
that's going to make you fat is what I 
was told like no no no I know and it 
seems like this is more maybe this isn't 
just about the food BR like did 
something bother you this week did 
something happen this week because again 
none of these compulsions exist without 
a pain that's going untended so rather 
than manage the behavior let's tend to 
the pain absolutely you know it's so 
funny that you say that I said to myself 
last night I was at my brother's house 
and they had this chocolate banana bread 
which I brought and I'm looking at it 
and I had that like gentle parent moment 
inside of me that was like you 
know you remember Bella we talked about 
this if you eat if you start eating that 
in an hour you're G to kind of feel not 
great about yourself and you can be so 
mean to yourself and remember we talked 
about what gives you a lot of joy in 
those moments is learning something new 
how about we go watch that video series 
right now instead and if you still want 
the banana bread after that we can have 
that worked like a charm Dental 
parenting is not just for kids it is for 
our voices in our heads like I don't 
have children um which is probably good 
I so oh God so okay inner children inner 
teenagers I I my first career was as a 
play therapist because I wanted to see 
how what do children actually respond to 
because it's the these smaller more 
childlike parts of ourselves that compel 
us to do the things we don't want to do 
gentle parenting we know with children 
is a much better approach with teenagers 
we know that unrestricted unbounded 
parenting doesn't work and it's the same 
thing with ourselves but neither does 
shaming it's you know it's boundaries 
and conscious loving discipline and you 
know praising the good behaviors and 
reshaping and understanding the ones 
that aren't so it's the same skill set 
if you have a parent if you're a parent 
of kids like transfer it to your inner 
World parent Your Parts parent I love 
that so much so let's talk 
about you're so good at so many things 
but you have three steps to unstuck 
let's go there and tell us concretely we 
probably touched on a lot of them in the 
therapy session you just gave me thank 
you 
so let's talk about about getting 
unstuck in general maybe you too have 
food issues maybe you've got money 
issues maybe you have love issues bad 
dating patterns let's talk about how do 
we get on stuck yes I love that and this 
will sort of sum up everything we've 
been talking about and again this works 
whether you're recovering from childhood 
trauma or whether you're trying to break 
a habit or it it works on everything 
which is I mean life's not easy our 
problems are not easy they're very 
complex but this process is not rocket 
science so again people are like this is 
so stupid I'm like I know if I had known 
it was this simple I wouldn't have spent 
20 years as an addict and like a lot of 
money on therapy and school and training 
so here are the three steps three steps 
to get unstuck step one ditch the why 
like I don't know why it doesn't matter 
right now it matter who cares why the 
damn house is on fire get out of the 
fraking house right it doesn't mean you 
don't matter it means why is not the 
thing right now ditch it just leave it 
in the parking lot step two just leave 
it there we'll get to it later God I 
love you step two make a list of three 
micro yeses and again to review a micro 
yes is the smallest possible thing 
you're willing to say yes to not 
tomorrow not next week not after you buy 
the sneakers and the special pens what 
can you say yes to in the next 30 
seconds 30 to 90 seconds then step three 
of that list that you just made pick one 
and do do it now here's the kicker after 
you do it you can't beat the crap out of 
yourself oh yeah well you a micro is for 
working out might be don't try to force 
yourself to take a walk you know you're 
not going to but maybe your micro yes is 
you walk to the door and then you walk 
back to the couch and tomorrow you walk 
to the door you put on one shoe and then 
you walk back to the 
couch oh well yeah all I did was walk to 
the door what's wrong with me that will 
completely like you your micro yeses 
won't work if you shame yourself so step 
one ditch the Y step two make a list of 
three micro yeses three pick one do it 
and then give yourself credit like you 
don't have to have a parade just be like 
yay I did a thing and then you move on I 
love that so let's go into an example I 
am a dating coach run Smart dating 
Academy my clients get frustrated with 
online dating and they're like I hate 
the apps I don't want to go on so let's 
say right now I'm feeling oh I can't get 
on a dating app today it just makes me 
feel awful what how do I get on stock 
great I love that question because I 
hated the dating apps too like a lot 
it's really overwhelming so remember a 
micro yes is not about big steps and 
micro yes is what are you willing to do 
I'm not willing to get on the dating 
apps great then that's not one on your 
list are you willing to look for three 
live and inperson events that are 
happening in your town that week that 
you can go to like apps are not the only 
way to meet humans like you can meet 
humans any number of ways so if you're 
not willing to get online what are you 
willing to do are you willing to if 
you're if you do like the apps but 
you're not wanting to get online are you 
willing to update your profile are you 
willing to phone a friend are you 
willing to hug a puppy it doesn't matter 
what are three things you're willing to 
do in service of this goal and if you 
can't find any then shrink them down and 
make them smaller maybe you're willing 
to log on to your computer look at the 
app and then close it doesn't matter how 
small they are but pick three things 
that you could do in the next 30 seconds 
that would be a yes and then pick one 
and do it and the thing is is you don't 
micro yes the whole way you micro yes 
until you build momentum and then you 
can take bigger steps and then you can 
go further faster and then you can 
sustain this road from here's what I 
want to what I'm what I actually have 
and that Gap is best bridged by 
microscopic steps forward because your 
nervous system stays out of freeze when 
you do things that are teeny tiny small 
m I love that and I'm going to give you 
singles a tip on something that happened 
to me last week that gets to this what 
are you willing to do so let's say let's 
go back to I can't be on the apps for 
even a minute this week okay and now a 
micro yes I'm going to tell you tell the 
people closest to you your friends or 
your family that you want to be invited 
to events even if you're not invited 
basically invite yourself my mother 
called me I was doing two events last 
week I said I'm going to a women like 
learn how to play poker night at my 
son's high school and I said and she's 
like oh what are you doing on Thursday 
night I said oh I'm speaking at the 
women's athletic club in Chicago the 
whack and she said well if I could go 
with you to either of those I would love 
to and I thought oh my gosh that's 
amazing I called the place where I was 
speaking they're like what an honor to 
have your mother join us CED her a 
ticket she's 75 they took such good care 
of her she said by Friday night 24 hours 
later she's like I still haven't lost 
the glow of having been there having 
watched you speak and meeting all of 
these new amazing women she basically 
called me and said can I come I want if 
you're single and listening to this we 
so often feel like we have no agency 
people don't want me at events my 
married friends shut me out what I want 
you to think about in your micro yes 
pick up the phone and tell that person 
hey I would love to go to a dinner with 
you guys if you could bring me as a 
guest like I yes I'm inviting myself be 
bold and say that and see what you get 
my own mother did this to her own and I 
just said or I didn't even know you 
wanted to come I will keep my eyes open 
for more things that are good for you 
take my mother ru's nugget and use it in 
your life if you are single invite 
yourself to things call up a friend and 
say what are you going to in the next 
two weeks and could I invite myself to 
go with you I find it to be so like 
enamoring I would love it if would how 
would you feel Brit if I called you and 
said Brit do you have any fun things I 
could literally just invite myself to 
with you 
I could not love that more like I love 
every single thing about what you said 
because doing that breaks the patterns 
doing that gives you a jolt of agency 
doing that like you hit a lot of notes 
by doing that and if calling the friend 
is too big then your micr step is make a 
list of three friends that you could 
call and then your next micro step is 
write the text and then send the text 
and like find a way to say yes I love 
that so and I would be thrilled because 
when we don't don't ask people for help 
we rob them of the joy of giving help I 
love being able to give to people 
because when I was in my spin people 
gave to me I feel like it's in congruent 
if I don't have outlets in order to to 
give you know it's like a body water 
needs an inlet and an outlet to stay 
alive otherwise it gets gross so it's 
the same thing you know people can't 
give if people don't need so when you 
need it take it when you have it give it 
it's very simple concept I love that and 
interrupt the pattern because we're all 
so self-conscious and we don't want to 
look desperate or thirsty and Brit and I 
are here to tell you it makes you look 
powerful and strong and self-aware and 
you're appealing to our senses of 
wanting to help which makes me when my 
mom did that it made me feel so good 
that she was like oh my I was like oh my 
gosh How brave of her to say please 
invite me 
I love that and it made my desire to 
help jack up on steroids and I made the 
call and couldn't have been happier I 
picked her up and brought her with me 
because I was so delighted that she told 
me I I love that so much and you know if 
you're worried about burdening your 
friends that that's not a really easy 
fix then in your text or in your call 
just say listen no pressure if this 
doesn't work for you totally cool but 
this is what I'm thinking this is what 
I'm wanting if you know someone if you 
know an event if you know a thing it's 
very very easy to not burden people 
you're not you're not calling them up 
and saying give me an invite or else 
you're saying this is something I'm 
wanting this is where my head is at and 
then their head starts thinking on your 
behalf and it's very cool the upcycle 
that happens with that process I love 
that tip so much absolutely and you 
might get invited to something they're 
going to if you invite yourself or they 
may not have anything but you're right 
they'll help brainstorm certain things 
or oh my God my friend Kathy went to 
this singles meetup group for divorce 
women that she loved out in the suburbs 
let me find out from her where that was 
and I'm going to connect you to so you 
can go with her boom okay so that was a 
micro I would say you know what that's a 
macro yes okay so that is a big deal so 
I love this so take this with you to the 
bank y'all go invite yourself or ask for 
help because we all want to help you I 
love that so much and again say yes to 
yourself it's like well how am I 
supposed to meet anyone if I'm just 
going to XYZ it's like go anyway because 
you're G to be better positioned to be 
able to it's sort of like when you buy a 
house you know all of a sudden you see 
for sale signs everywhere or you know 
like when I needed to replace like a 
pipe or Plumbing or whatever I was 
hyperconscious of sync fixtures because 
there's only so much your brain can take 
in so what you tell it to focus on it 
will focus on if you're programming your 
brain keep on the lookout for 
opportunities to expand my life where 
can I say yes where can I ask for help 
your brain's going to start doing that 
automatically and then suddenly you've 
got all these things on your calendar 
that are really fun and exciting and 
then whether or not you meet someone 
your your life's going to get more fun 
and you're GNA feel better which then 
puts you in an even better position to 
spot and attract a person that would be 
compatible I love that and this is very 
much called the red sweater effect right 
if I tell you to walk into a room and 
look for people wearing red you're going 
to come back to me and say B 11 people 
were wearing red if I said Brit how many 
people were wearing yellow you're like 
well you told me to look for red right 
we look for what we become conscious of 
our brains have as we've known and you 
guys have heard me talk about this on 
the show before we have a negativity 
bias and that's wired into us so we 
survive and we don't get eaten by the 
tiger or the grizzly bear right like oh 
what's that we look at an angry face and 
we're like oh I don't want to talk to 
that person here what I want you to do 
is actively program into your head a 
positivity bias as you're walking down 
the street each day and this is just a 
fun exercise to do I do this all the 
time when you see people walking by tell 
yourself something positive about that 
person you know I bet that guy is a 
great uncle he looks like he'd be so 
much fun and I'm sure that he spins his 
nephews and nieces around and that like 
grabs one arm and one leg and he's that 
Uncle that everybody loves that woman 
over there wow she's got a really 
interesting style I bet that she looks 
all over really carefully to find 
exactly how her look should be and I bet 
you she just I bet she gets a lot of 
attention everywhere she goes in a good 
way do this and interrupt the negativity 
in your brain that's looking for 
stranger danger instead tell yourself 
good stories around people and you know 
what happens it's a very strange effect 
I don't know if it's vibration but when 
you start to tell yourself good things 
about people it must change the energy 
we're giving out or the facial 
expressions that we have but I've seen 
people walk up to me and say something 
nice to me when that happens it's really 
weird can you explain that uh no but I 
can validate that that's a thing and it 
happens and I I I could explain it I 
mean what you're saying is absolutely 
what we know about emotions is that 
they're contagious and that emotions 
actually have like physical man if 
someone's angry if you walk into a room 
you can feel the tension right you can 
feel and that's contagious so if you're 
walking around with a negativity bias 
all day I suck I'm not enough I'm never 
gonna have the thing whatever that's 
going to show up in how you physically 
show up because you know emotions are 
energy in the body it's not just a con 
concept it's like emotions are 
physiological so if you're trying to 
conjure up stories of possibility and 
curiosity and positivity it's not about 
thinking positive we're not saying 
ignore the pain we're saying if you're 
going to be talking to yourself all day 
anyway why not try to conjure up 
something possible not even positive but 
possible about the people around you 
that's going to change your orientation 
and again we know emotions are 
contagious so if you are giving off this 
energy of curiosity it's very magnetic 
not just with dating but just with life 
the energy of openness and expansion and 
curiosity we like people that we feel 
are open to us you know people are just 
safer to approach when they're not all 
balled up and constricted and growly and 
walled off and you can be open and 
curious and still have boundaries my 
thing was but if I'm open and curious 
I'm going to be vulnerable to getting 
hurt it's like not necessarily that's 
not necessarily true it doesn't mean be 
boundaryless and just have hours long 
you know interactions with people but 
curiosity I wonder what that person 
might be good at I love that so much I 
wonder what you know that person's story 
is I really like their shoes that does 
change your physiology which then 
changes your emotions which then changes 
how you're attracting and who you're 
attracting absolutely and being 
self-aware that wow this does give me 
pause I'm nervous would somebody think 
I'm fake right and being vulnerable is 
about being curious and also willing to 
exchange that information about yourself 
right it's like if I'm like wow frit I 
love those red patent shoes they're so 
awesome where did you find those I've 
been looking for a pair right and then 
all of the sudden then I'll be like you 
know it's hard for me to find shoes 
because I have to wear a double wi 
because I have a bunion so it you know 
and all the sudden we get into this 
conversation that now I've disclosed 
something that I don't often share and 
you can be like oh my God my aunt has 
that we've got these three amazing sites 
where we get her the most Chic Shoes 
right all of the sudden look at that and 
it's not me saying wow you know when I 
was nine years old my father blah blah 
blah that vulnerability without 
boundaries is oversharing says bne brown 
right you don't want to go there but 
just something that's interesting or 
intriguing about yourself I love that 
and even if someone's talking to you and 
they're interesting it's amazing to me 
how rare people get told this and how I 
don't do it in a fake way but if someone 
is saying something interesting I will 
say oh my God you are so interesting or 
that was so interesting and people 
really like heing that and if you're not 
being fake that's another way to connect 
because we're all programmed to keep 
walls up I don't I may not necessarily 
want to date you or have you in my life 
but if you're saying something 
interesting I'll validate that that's 
interesting then we've created a micro 
connection you might not be my long-term 
person but that micro connection gives 
me a hit of agency and choice and 
dopamine and then I can take that juice 
and drive wherever else I want to go ah 
Brit you're amazing um I wish we could 
talk for another eight hours 
so we can order your book the science of 
stock I'll put a link to Brit's book in 
the show notes and any place else we can 
find more of you oh my God you're 
awesome you're super interesting I'm 
like like shoot we're out of time um 
find me on Instagram where I have 
horrible boundaries I'm on there all the 
time and I don't have a team it's just 
me so come say hi it's at BT Frank I'll 
be there I answer all my DMs myself and 
all the messages myself because I just 
love seeing the good that social media 
can do I mean it's a jungle but there's 
also a lot of potential for real 
connection to happen out there I love 
that and you use it for good yes right 
and we're gonna use it for social not 
antisocial media and you guys if you 
love this episode with Brit as much as I 
did go in give it a fstar rating write 
what resonated with you okay I read 
every single review and I will send you 
love right and I'll give you good Juju 
so that energy will come to you so do 
that it would mean the world to both 
Britt and me and if you feel like you're 
stuck in the dating world Peak dating 
season is coming get excited don't look 
at it with Dread what can we micro and 
macro freaking yes ourselves to schedule 
a consult with us sign up for our 
newsletter at Smart dating academy.com 
follow us on Instagram and share this 
podcast episode with the people in your 
life that need it because who isn't 
stuck who doesn't have big T little te 
trauma brain indigestion we're all stuck 
in some ways share this with someone who 
needs it and good things will come your 
way until next week I vid you 
farewell 
