[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
hello today I wanted to share with you 
something that has helped me a lot in my 
life to reduce anxiety and become a lot 
happier in the last few weeks you know 
those of you that know me I've started 
this company 14 years ago I'm the mom of 
a 15-year-old a 
19-year-old I'm close to my parents I 
have a brother sister-in-law and nephews 
all local lots of friends a daughter 
that just went away to college a son 
that plays three Sports in high school 
so I have a very full life and I coach 
hundreds of clients per year and there's 
a lot of things that 
happen in my day and you know I'll get 
raw like there are things that can make 
me sad there are things that can make me 
anxious and there's been a particular 
situation or two in my life over the 
last month which have you know really 
got me wound up in KN I found I wasn't 
sleeping well I just you know on and off 
I could feel the knots in my stomach all 
the time due to situations that you know 
I wanted to try to control I wanted to 
try to change and I realized at a 
certain point the the only thing I could 
do in these situations I couldn't change 
the other people I couldn't change the 
way they were behaving the only thing I 
could do was change my own reaction to 
it so I happened to pop on an Instagram 
live a couple of weeks ago and you know 
I love doing Instagram lives and through 
Good Morning America I have had the 
great opportunity to meet some amazing 
people um and Dan Harris is one of the 
people I most admire that I met at GMA 
and if you don't know he's recently left 
GMA but he is the anchor that had a 
public he had kind of a a panic attack 
on ABC on national news and he went on a 
a personal expiration and quest to find 
out what caused this panic attack and 
why and how he could work on himself so 
that it wouldn't happen again so spoiler 
alert Dan took to meditation and he 
started a company called 10% happier 
they have an app I've read his book I've 
read his second book I'm a huge fan I've 
had the opportunity to chat with him 
backstage for 20 minutes about the world 
of singles and so I hadn't seen Dan in a 
while cuz he's left GMA for over a year 
ago so when I do it um he's obviously 
not there so I happened to pop on when 
he was on alive and I can't even 
remember who he was talking to maybe it 
was I think it was Gretchen Rubin that 
Happiness Project woman and he was 
saying you know meditation can really 
help with your own anxiety and feeling 
better about relationships with other 
people and sometimes when we get our 
undies in a bunch about somebody else 
like I was he said we can give them a 
kindness compassion 
meditation and I said and I'm and you 
know I kind of propped up and started 
listening what is a kindness 
compassionate meditation right and you 
know truth be told I love meditation I'm 
not the best at it I'm sort of a 
hyperactive can't sit still for very 
long kind of person but I do see the 
absolute benefits of it and I'm not a 
skeptic I'm working at getting better on 
it but this meditation that Dan went 
through and it was so beautiful that I 
was searching around my office I needed 
a piece of paper and it pen and I wanted 
to write down what he was saying and he 
said I want you to sit quietly and think 
about kind of just close your eyes and 
imagine the person or the situation 
whatever is giving you stress and I want 
you to repeat these four sentences to 
yourself imagine the 
person may you be 
happy may you be 
healthy may you be 
safe and may you live with 
ease and I was like oh my God Dan say it 
again say it again and I had to write it 
down so I'm going to say it for you 
picture a person in your life that's 
giving you stress maybe it's someone you 
haven't heard from in dating maybe it's 
your ex maybe it's your ex's new 
girlfriend or boyfriend or your teenager 
or your neighbor or your sister or a 
teacher or your boss or somebody that 
works for you imagine this person's face 
okay and breathe deeply while you're 
doing this picture the person and give 
them kindness and compassion in your 
mind may you be happy may you be healthy 
may you be safe and may you live with 
ease I'm telling you you guys this has 
changed my world in the last five days I 
called one of my best friends Lisa who's 
struggling with her own things and I 
told her this meditation and in her cute 
way she's like girl hold up I need to 
get myself a pen and a Post-It note and 
I need to write that down and I said 
it's a Buddhist kindness compassion 
medit ation and so she's like okay okay 
okay I'm going to try this and she was 
all riled up about something the next 
day she sent me a text she's like the 
Buddha and that meditation is working I 
told it to another friend today who 
wrote it down and was like wow that is 
beautiful I want you to take this 
kindness compassionate meditation and 
I'm telling you it is so easy and you 
don't have to sit in a corner and you 
don't have to meditate you can do this 
while walking down the street you can do 
this while sitting in your car deep 
breathe so we talked about doing this 
with somebody that you know you don't 
like or is giving you anxiety but I want 
to take a step back I want you to do it 
for yourself say it to yourself may I be 
happy may I be healthy may I be safe and 
may I live with ease when you're 
thinking about may I be happy think 
about the things that make you happy may 
I be happy what should I do to make 
myself happy what can I do to make 
myself healthy what can I do to feel 
safer in my life and to live with ease 
and less suffering do the meditation for 
yourself that kindness compassionate 
meditation to yourself then you can 
extend it to someone that you love I 
could close my eyes and I could picture 
Andy I could picture my mom I could say 
wow these these are people I love my dad 
more than anything may you be happy may 
you be healthy may you be safe may you 
live with ease and in me it creates this 
sense of peace and ease and then take 
that person you don't like or the person 
that is causing you anxiety and do this 
meditation do it several times a day 
steal yourself do it in your core it has 
helped me so much it has helped people 
that I love and I am here to share with 
you the gems that help me to be better 
to live better to live happier to stay 
in that psychotically optimistic mindset 
so I hope this kindness compassionate 
meditation helps you with yourself helps 
you to extend Grace to somebody that you 
love and also helps you to feel better 
about somebody that that you don't like 
or doesn't like you or you have sadness 
towards or anger towards or you feel 
shame around be compassionate to that 
person and extend them that because 
remember holding that hostility inside 
of you remember it's like drinking 
poison and expecting the other person to 
die being kind and compassionate to this 
person in your own mind reduces your own 
cortisol reduces the bad hormones in 
your own system and makes you feel more 
peaceful and lets you live a more joyful 
life I hope this has helped you as much 
as it helps me let me know send us a 
note let me know that this has helped 
you and how it's helped you I would love 
to hear and if you love this give us a 
rating tell us that you love this 
podcast tell us that you love this week 
of minis these reviews mean the world to 
us it would make me so happy to to see 
you write something about this as always 
follow us on Instagram at Smart dating 
Academy and sign up for our newsletter 
Smart dating academy.com to be in the 
know and to have access to us in any way 
you want if you're feeling that you need 
kindness and compassion and you need 
someone in your corner to help you with 
dating to be your confident to be your 
personal trainer for your love life to 
be your dating best friend send us an 
email get into for our one-on-one VIP 
client roster you won't be sorry and I 
will leave you with this may you dear 
listener be happy may you be healthy may 
you be safe and may you live with 
ease 
