[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back to the podcast 
I'm so excited to talk to you about 
dating I know it feels for a lot of you 
that we're hearing that there's kind of 
a lull Peak dating season is now over 
and it's geez what can I do to ramp 
things up for my dating life so what I 
wanted to talk to you today about are 
seven small changes that you can make 
starting today that can potentially lead 
to Big results so let's Dive Right into 
these so change number one that's small 
but that can lead to Big results is 
change your online parameters now what 
does that mean 
think about all of the things that you 
can choose on an online dating site you 
can expand your age range you can expand 
the height range you're open to the ZIP 
code or the radius right you can look at 
people that are different than you it I 
don't know ethnicity race religion 
whatever feels good to you change some 
of your online parameters remember every 
inch in height that you widen your 
parameters you can make sure that you 
will be screening in hundreds if not 
thousands of new candidates and what 
Lindsay Eileen and I want to make sure 
is that you are not screening the love 
of your life out by one inch right you 
know I've heard all of these stories 
like with Nancy who was six feet tall 
who didn't want to date anyone who 
wasn't 6-1 or over she changed her 
height parameters to her height of being 
six feet tall and if you haven't heard 
the podcast go back to Nancy's Love 
Story which was in 2022 and listen for 
that and I'll put a note about that in 
the show notes but when she expanded her 
height Criterion she let in the love of 
her life David Bruce who was truly her 
last first state right so if you're on 
Match right a good test as Lindsay says 
is to see how many people you have in 
your Mutual match right and you can 
create a saved search with really narrow 
parameters and watch how quickly you're 
filtering people out every time we get 
narrower with our search we're screening 
more and more people out so remember 
love is going to come to you in an 
unexpected package so challenge yourself 
to push something outwards meaning being 
more expansive in your online parameters 
and see what that brings you and don't 
get nervous because you can always 
change those things back but play around 
with them 
number two 
small change that can lead to Big result 
my friend Rachel Greenwald talks about a 
game called Three Blind Mice And you can 
play this online which I love what is 
that so if you're online dating pick 
three people you would maybe normally 
skip over as long as they don't have red 
flags right and send them a message what 
this does is it potentially opens you up 
to being open to new people you know who 
you're looking for but if you feel like 
you're too stuck in a rut and you want 
to expand your net you don't know how 
you're seeing the same people 
deliberately pick three people where 
you're like wow I've never gone out with 
someone who's blah blah blah or blah 
blah or someone who doesn't have a 
degree or someone who lives 20 you know 
35 miles from me whatever that is pick 
three people but make sure that they 
don't have any red flags they don't seem 
angry or negative or critical in in 
their profiles and set up a video date 
with them and you're challenged to 
yourself is to find three things that 
you potentially like about this person 
right so play game it with yourself and 
you're not being mean because you never 
know you might really like this person 
that you wouldn't have normally and you 
might want to go on a second date with 
this person so play Three Blind Mice 
pick three people that you never 
normally would and see where it goes 
right love is going to come to you in an 
unexpected package and I'm telling you 
today about little changes you can make 
to your mindset to the things that 
you're doing to bring in that one 
special lid to your pot okay 
now along with that is change number 
three that you can make which is change 
your story change the story that you're 
telling yourself about dating right 
maybe you're telling yourself I hate 
dating maybe you're telling yourself I'm 
not a good dater maybe you're telling 
yourself there's no good people out 
there maybe you're telling yourself I'm 
too damaged I've got too much baggage I 
don't know how to talk about my story 
change the story that you're telling 
yourself dating is fun turn yourself 
into a psychotic Optimist love is out 
there for me it's a when not an if and 
all I have to do is date like hell until 
I find this person right and stories 
that I've seen my clients change some 
people come into us I had a client years 
ago named Sandy and she would always say 
Bella I'm the fourth date wonder and I'd 
say what does that mean she's like I can 
get to the fourth date and then after 
that they always disappear right and so 
I'm like what is that but the story that 
she was telling herself was okay I'm 
good until the fourth date so what do 
you think she was doing on the fourth 
day do you think she was acting like the 
best version of herself which was 
consistent with the last three dates no 
she wasn't because the story she was 
telling herself was well the other 
shoe's gonna drop after this date so she 
was more anxious and more closed down so 
through coaching we worked on that and 
the first time she got her fifth date 
after telling herself this is just a 
story I'm telling myself I am not a four 
day Wonder we were doing such a fun 
happy dance in our office because she 
got to the 15. if the story you're 
telling yourself is I'm a fourth date 
well I'm a four day Wanderer I'm a first 
date wonder I can't get past six months 
whatever it is change the story you're 
telling yourself and if you need some 
help around that enlist us to help you 
coach you through what those stories are 
and where you need help because ladies 
and gentlemen we all have stories that 
hold us back that keep us stuck and keep 
us doing the same things over and over 
again if you need help golly George 
reach out for help it exists and you are 
worth it okay change number four or this 
is an easy one if you're online dating 
okay change the time that you're going 
online if you're always checking the 
sites in the apps at the end of the day 
after you've had a long grueling day at 
work maybe you've been to the gym 
whatever it is and you're looking at the 
sites and the apps with exhausted jaded 
eyes change things up maybe look at it 
over your lunch break maybe when you're 
bright-eyed and bushy-tailed first thing 
in the morning but change up the time 
that you're online because you never 
know what the algorithms are going to 
serve you up at different times as well 
I have no control over the algorithms 
but what I can tell you is looking at 
the sites at different times can 
generate different results and most 
importantly you might see different 
people at those times and also you might 
quote unquote see new people because 
you're in a different more excited 
mindset because you are doing things 
differently so isn't that easy it's so 
fun and simple to do but these are small 
changes that can lead to Big results now 
change number five is don't get married 
to any one dating site or app change up 
your sites or apps every three months 
don't buy a 12-month membership maybe 
pay by the month so you feel like you 
have that flexibility date the sites as 
well haha just kidding you don't want to 
get exclusive with any site too quickly 
don't be on anything for more than a 
year I want you to have a fluid dating 
strategy remember online dating is like 
the world's largest cocktail party okay 
and imagine that and all of the 
different rooms are like different apps 
okay and this is a metaphor that I'm 
drawing so what you want to make sure is 
that you're at the party right so you're 
online dating then what you want to give 
yourself flexibility to do is wander 
room to room and see who's in the other 
rooms and that is what it's like to have 
a very fluid dating app strategy at 
smartdating Academy we have clients on 
all we have clients on 10 to 15 
different sites and apps right and just 
it depends on who you are where you live 
who you're looking for what age you are 
as to what site strategy we're going to 
give you but if you're doing this on 
your own just make sure that you've got 
a fluid strategy and change things up 
okay now change number six this is a 
small one but powerful and mighty if you 
are rolling from work straight to date 
and so many of you are you've got great 
jobs and you go straight from work to 
the date what I want you to do is change 
your appearance change your clothes it's 
that simple have dating outfits right 
ladies maybe for you it's popping your 
Berry lip having a special shade of red 
that cues your brain that you're in 
dating mode but what you want to do is 
have a ritual around how you look during 
dating right go home build in some time 
so that you can wash the stench of work 
off of you change your clothes freshen 
up and ladies and gentlemen this is for 
both of you right even if work is super 
business casual you want to look great 
for an in-person date because it's going 
to make you most importantly feel really 
good and attractive and when you're 
feeling good and attractive guess what 
you seem to the other person you seem 
more attractive so build in some time to 
change your look I had a client again 
some years back named Jill who had these 
gorgeous blue eyes and one of the things 
I made sure for her photo shoot when she 
was starting this process is that she 
had this gorgeous blue wrap dress 
because it really made her eyes pop in 
her photos and so she got so much great 
feedback on the blue dress photos that 
she started to wear blue dresses on 
dates and every time she would come home 
from work she would pick out one of her 
five different blue dresses and she 
would put them on and she found that 
dating became more fun because she knew 
when she put this dress on she was going 
to turn into dating Jill instead of work 
Jill so take these little changes that 
you can make what can you do today guys 
can you bring a sport coat to the office 
a crisp pressed shirt that you're gonna 
wear on your date so that you look like 
you haven't been sitting around in the 
same clothes for 10 hours ladies maybe 
you wear a great dress to work but bring 
some fun kicking heels with you pop your 
lip maybe change your hair right if 
you've had your hair up all day just it 
up and bring it down what can you do to 
make yourself feel better and that 
you've taken the the work day off of you 
and you've transformed into dating mode 
and seven 
the last little change that you can make 
is a big one I want you to change the 
internal clock that you have about when 
you're supposed to meet the lid to your 
pot we work on this a lot at Smart 
dating Academy because you know our 
clients that work with us are working 
with us typically for a one-year 
engagement right and then they get on to 
two and three years but what we're doing 
is helping them to see that just because 
you're engaging us for one year doesn't 
mean the lid to your pot is going to 
come in the air there are many people 
that go on to year two year three year 
four even when you're dating the right 
way right there's certain things that 
the universe or God has in store that I 
don't have control over right but that 
last first date is going to come into 
your inbox I promise but what I want you 
to do is change the internal clock that 
you have on yourself maybe you're 34 
years old and telling yourself my gosh 
my biology clock is ticking and I need 
to find someone right away so that I can 
hunker down get married and have babies 
and if I don't you know I'm wasting my 
child bearing years or maybe you're 
telling yourself oh my gosh I'm 49 years 
old and I've got to date somebody before 
I turn 50 because if not I'm going to be 
washed up whatever that time clock is 
give yourself some Grace ladies and 
gentlemen there is no time clock on love 
this is the number one most important 
decision you're ever going to make in 
your life and that decision requires 
patience positivity and perseverance so 
if you tell yourself I'm giving this 30 
days I'm giving it 90 days whatever it 
is and you're putting all of that 
internal pressure on yourself don't do 
that you are probably going to come from 
a place of fear come from a place of 
anxiety you're gonna dread dating and 
you're not going to have the good 
results that you could so I hope that 
this little mini ish episode has 
inspired you that you can make some of 
these small changes to start to get big 
results and remember just because you 
make a small change today doesn't mean 
you're going to get a big result today 
you've got to have the mindset of dating 
as a marathon it's not a Sprint and my 
small change today could lead to the 
love of my life maybe it's expanding my 
height Criterion maybe it's telling 
myself it doesn't matter how long it's 
going to take I'm a psychotic Optimist 
and love is going to come to me I'm 
going to get rid of my time clock maybe 
you're going to get online tomorrow 
morning at 6 30 a.m versus getting 
online at 10 pm every day whatever it is 
I wish you nothing but love and the best 
of luck making these changes and if one 
of these changes worked reach out to us 
DM us follow us on Instagram at 
smartdatingacademy sign up for our new 
newsletter at 
smartdatingacademy.com I we would love 
to have you in our email database where 
you'll learn about things first and of 
course if you need help reach out to 
schedule a consultation it'll be the 
best money that you've ever spent with 
that smart daters I wish you love beauty 
and I cannot wait to talk to you again 
next week 
