[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
welcome back smart daters I'm so excited 
to be talking to you today about finding 
love this summer so many of you have 
reached out to us in listening to the 
prior stories that we've been telling 
the story about Sylvia foti the Nazi's 
granddaughter who found love online 
while working with us about Nancy Hollow 
who got married to David Bruce last 
September about Rachel Graham who found 
love after betrayal and so many of you 
are messaging uh saying Bella Lindsay 
Eileen when is it my turn to find love 
am I going to find the lid to my pot and 
the answer is a resounding yes yes and 
yes and so today I'm going to talk to 
you about the seven things that you can 
do for yourself this summer to find 
yourself some summer love I don't know 
if I'm dating myself here but if you 
guys remember the movie Grease little 
Danny a little Sandy 
[Music] 
summer loving you can find yourself some 
summer love this Summer Okay so let's 
dive right into it today I've got so 
much to say on this topic that I thought 
I'm just going to talk to you myself I 
don't need a guess this is my area of 
expertise and this is what we do we help 
people to find the lids to their pots so 
my dear friend Summer Love is coming to 
you I want you to first of all inhale 
exhale count to three and smile and know 
the fact that you were listening to this 
episode you were listening to your Fairy 
Godmother who has the magic wand right 
here with her is telling you that you 
are going to find love this summer so 
thing number one that you're gonna need 
to do is you're gonna need an attitude 
adjustment you're gonna need a mindset 
shift and guess what that is I want you 
to be what I call psychotically 
optimistic about your love life and if 
you're new to me you might be going 
psychotically optimistic what on Earth 
is that Bella how can you use the word 
psychotic and optimistic in the same 
sentence well it's really easy right if 
you're psychotic it means you've sort of 
lost touch with reality right you're 
kind of crazy yeah and when you're 
psychotically optimistic it means you 
are optimistic not only on the days 
where everything is going well for you 
but even when you've had the bumps in 
the road even when you thought you had a 
first great date and then the person 
ghosted even after you've been dating 
somebody for three months and they said 
you know what I just don't think I'm in 
for this for a long-term commitment even 
if you've lost the love of your life to 
unfortunate circumstances I'm here to 
tell you that I want I am the chief 
psychotic Optimist at Smart dating 
Academy and I have many psychotic 
optimists on my team that work with me 
Lindsay Eileen Anissa Michelle you guys 
know all of our people but I want you 
most importantly to become psychotically 
optimistic about your own love life now 
how do you do that well first of all 
listen to what I'm telling you I know 
beyond the shadow of a doubt I don't 
care who you are I don't care where you 
are when you're listening to this I 
don't care how old you are I don't care 
what your gender is I don't care about 
any of that but what I am telling you 
from the tiniest little cell in my 
teeniest little pinky toe all the way up 
to my thick head of black hair is love 
is going to come to you okay I want you 
to say to yourself right now whether 
you're in public or whether you're in 
your car or what maybe you're at work 
listening to this love will come to me 
it's a one it's not an if because Bella 
said so okay I know I have seen 
thousands I have helped thousands and 
thousands of you over the last 13 years 
since I've started this company and way 
before that when I was doing this as a 
hobby find love okay and I know that 
love exists be for you beyond the shadow 
of a doubt so I want you to tell 
yourself okay love exists for me love 
exists for every single person that 
wants it why because we are love right 
we love ourselves number one we have all 
the love that we already need right we 
get love from family we get love from 
our friends we get love from ourselves 
like I talked about in last week's 
episode with Arielle Ford we have plenty 
of Love around us okay and so now we're 
looking for the Romantic led to our pot 
so you know that he or she is out there 
for you and I want you as part of this 
yes to change your attitude about dating 
this summer I know so many of you are 
you know veteran daters and you've been 
out there maybe for months for years for 
decades for some of you and you're kind 
of tired of the drill and you're telling 
yourself yeah you know 
I have to date I don't want to do this 
but I have to get online I want you to 
change your tune and I want you to 
change the word have to get I get to 
date and you know why dating is a 
privilege I get to date I get to meet 
new people I get to hear their stories I 
get to possibly make a new connection I 
get to meet a new friend I need you to 
steal yourself with this positivity okay 
this is all part of being psychotically 
optimistic I get to date the people that 
do best at our process in Smart dating 
Academy are the people that literally 
are like dating is going to be fun and 
I'm going to get to meet all these 
people and I'm going to get to hear 
these interesting stories they're not 
saying I'm gonna have to meet all these 
degenerate losers gonna have to sit 
through these dates I'm gonna have to 
sit through all of the people that are 
left over out there because there's 
nobody good left out there I swear to 
you no those aren't the people that are 
attracting the good and the people that 
are attracting the good believe the good 
they become the good they are enjoyable 
to be around they're like a chandelier 
that light up the room and you my friend 
for listening to this I want you to 
smile and I want you to become that 
chandelier that beautiful light fixture 
that lights up a room and on the side 
note for those of you that know me I 
have eight chandeliers on the first 
floor in my little house in Chicago not 
because it's Grand not because it's 
amazing it's a cute little coach house 
but I'll tell you what I've got eight 
chandeliers to light up my house which 
lights up my life which lights up my 
eyeballs I love chandeliers so be the 
chandelier become that psychotically 
optimistic person okay and you get to 
date it is a privilege to do this not 
everybody gets to date there are 
cultures that don't allow people to date 
you get to make those choices you get to 
be around people okay so now thing 
number two on the list of seven things 
you need to do to find summer love is I 
want you to fix your picker and do a 
deep dive into yourself okay 
now what does that mean maybe when 
you're in the dating world 
something's been handed to you right 
maybe you've been through a terrible 
breakup heartbreak you lost the love of 
your life to a premature illness and if 
so I'm sending you huge hugs maybe 
you've never really been in love before 
and you don't know what love is and 
you've had a series of relationships but 
you just you don't know whatever it is 
you guys I want you to sit down and do a 
tune-up of your relationship picker I 
call it fix your picker your people 
picker your relationship picker if you 
have if you are saying to yourself I am 
always attracting the wrong people 
newsflash you're not attracting the 
wrong people you're accepting the wrong 
people and if that's the case Okay 
whether you've been doing this for a 
month or a year or a decade or your 
entire life I'm here to tell you 
something I'm here to say to you with 
great love and great psychotic optimism 
about fixing your picker it's not your 
fault okay there's our Pickers are 
broken because we're wired to choose 
things that aren't important to 
long-term relationships biologically 
we're chosen to like we choose Partners 
from our reptilian limbic brains we 
choose partners that would have been 
great for us 200 000 years ago back in 
the cave days where we may have lived 
until we were 18 19 or at a maximum 30 
years old so we're still choosing 
partners for more superficial traits 
Hollywood and social media also messages 
us the wrong way we're supposed to feel 
instant chemistry love at first sight be 
swept off our feet love is a feeling 
last week with RL Ford I talked to you 
about love is not a feeling it's a 
behavior it's a choice it's a decision 
right but we're messaged the wrong 
things and so if your picker is broken 
take stock of that look at yourself and 
say what am I doing that is playing into 
this maybe you've been in relationships 
with narcissists or people that are 
emotionally avoidant your entire life 
and even though you think you're doing 
things differently you really aren't 
it's like same dude or same woman 
different face year over year decade 
over decade it's time to take steps to 
fix your picker and let me tell you what 
if you feel like this is you I'll tell 
you what this isn't a problem that 
normally fixes itself you can't read a 
book and fix your picker get a good 
therapist get a good Village get a good 
coach get the best coach that's us at 
Smart dating Academy our superpower is 
helping people to fix their Pickers but 
that's really where the magic is so do a 
little Deep dive into yourself and say 
is my picker broken for most of you to 
some way shape or form like I said I've 
been doing this professionally for 13 
years most of our Pickers are broken 
I'll tell you what my picker was really 
really broken before I met Andy and for 
those of you that have been following us 
on social media last week on May 17th 
Andy and I celebrated our 25th wedding 
anniversary amazing right I had some big 
picker problems before I wanted the 
butterflies I wanted the high highs and 
the low lows and the edgy feeling and 
all the excitement and when I realized I 
wasn't dating for long-term love and I 
fixed my picker I found him and we've 
been together pretty much it seems like 
our entire lives at this point so I want 
you to fix your picker and I want you to 
commit to yourself to doing something to 
fix your picker okay whatever that is 
call your therapist read the book get 
the coach schedule a session with me 
whatever it is commit to fixing your 
picker this summer because it's so so so 
so crucial remember the definition of 
insanity is doing the same thing over 
and over again month over month year 
over year decade over decade and 
expecting a different result okay so now 
you've done thing number one you're 
getting psychotically optimistic number 
two you're gonna do that fix your picker 
deep dive in into yourself number three 
I want you to think about your dating 
life as something this Summer that 
you're going to do differently I want 
you to think about creating a dating 
funnel for yourself and you might ask 
yourself What on earth does that mean if 
you're new to us well so many of us are 
again we're wired to do the wrong things 
in dating full stop and we want a one 
and done date somebody we have one good 
date with somebody two good dates with 
somebody we want to shut off our apps 
and just date that one until it goes up 
or until it goes down and then we lick 
our Paws we kind of recover grieve and 
we get back up there a year later two 
years later whatever that is I want you 
to stop that Madness and I want you to 
create a dating funnel why because 
having a funnel means you have options 
okay think about the way the Market's 
crazy and volatile right now would you 
take everything in the market and put it 
all into one stock that your neighbor 
said was gonna go bananas no of course 
you wouldn't do that you're a smart 
person you're not not going to take your 
hard-earned money and put it all into 
one thing you're going to do the smart 
thing which was what we call you know 
I'm a former Finance person that's my 
college education you're going to 
diversify your portfolio right you're 
going to have some money in stocks 
you're going to have some money in cash 
you're gonna have some money and bonds 
you're going to have you know you're 
going to have some money in Bitcoin I 
don't know whatever it is your jam is 
but in the dating world I want you to 
think about yourself in the same way I 
want you to have a lot of different 
options think of your dating life like a 
horse race in order to make it a race 
you got to have many different horses so 
you're going to slow things down you're 
going to create a funnel where you've 
got a bunch of different people that 
you're dating and I'm not talking about 
sleeping with shacking up with making 
out with whatever your thing is so that 
you feel disingenuous no I want you to 
date and get to know a bunch of people 
why because you get to date you get to 
do this your way you've got the steering 
wheel of your dating life okay and you 
don't have to tell people that you have 
a dating funnel you do you boo okay but 
have yourself a dating funnel no more 
one and done dating so now thing number 
four that you need to do this summer to 
get that funnel is dun dun dun you need 
to start online dating the right way and 
if you guys don't know how to online 
date the right way and if you think 
online dating is boring horrible it 
sucks whatever it is you're probably not 
doing it the right way you're certainly 
not doing it with us at Smart dating 
Academy where we do the best photos we 
give you my profile book that I wrote 
during covert that makes you write the 
best profiles for sites like match for 
sites like Bumble and it's like boom 
boom boom answer a question outspit's a 
perfect profile so if you haven't done 
that and you want to do it yourself 
great keep doing it but I need you to do 
it the right way okay so go to my 
website go to smarttatingacademy.com and 
look at what good photos look like I am 
pumping these photos out there for 
clients all over the nation all over the 
world that come to Chicago to work with 
us in our photo studio where we have 
amazing photos that are not photoshopped 
they are not the souped up glammed up 
versions of you but they look pretty 
freaking good you've got to have great 
headshots and great body shots they've 
got to be high resolution they have to 
be no more than one year old you've got 
to look the part you've got to feel the 
part you've got to look happy get rid of 
your sunglasses what most of you are 
doing is picking the best photos that 
exist in your phone which I'm telling 
you they're not good let me just I'm 
going to give you the Straight Dope I do 
this every single day I've been doing 
this for 13 years people come to me on a 
daily basis I do one hour consultations 
looking at their profiles they're like 
Bella look at my photos don't you think 
these are awesome usually they're not 
awesome okay they're the best that you 
have but that doesn't mean they're 
awesome doing something awesomely means 
investing in yourself having somebody 
take photos of you okay so you've got to 
have six awesome photos in six different 
looks right where you're not wearing 
your sunglasses where there's no other 
people in the photos with you where you 
look great and you look just like the 
version of yourself that's going to show 
up to the date not the glammed up 20 
pounds ago 20 years ago version of you 
that has different color hair different 
length hair don't do that that is the 
ultimate Act of self-sabotage right and 
I want you to pick one or two great 
sites or apps and I know you're probably 
thinking well I've tried this I've tried 
that Bella what are the great sites or 
apps well I don't know you because I 
haven't worked with you yet I don't 
think I know you yet directly you've got 
to pick a great site or two that are 
good for you in your age bracket in the 
city that you live in based on who 
you're looking for and then you need to 
navigate the site or those two apps on a 
daily basis okay and you've got to write 
great text in your profile if you don't 
know how to do that again it's not your 
fault we're not taught how to do this 
that's what we're here for we will send 
you our book to do that if you're our 
client if you take our online dating 
love lab or you work with us one-on-one 
and if not the best tips I can give you 
is be positive be specific show don't 
tell in your profile don't make it 
negative don't say please do not contact 
me if make it interesting full of 
interesting little tidbits about 
yourself that give the person who's 
reading your profile something 
interesting to start a conversation with 
you about okay so that was Point number 
four the fourth thing that you need to 
do this summer now thing number five is 
then once you get online dating the 
right way you need to have what I call a 
DDR a daily dating routine now what is 
that really simple the more you put into 
this the more you're going to get out of 
this okay so I don't want this to feel 
like a job and if you feel like it is a 
second job you're not doing this the 
right way okay put some boundaries 
around it turn off the notifications on 
the sites or the apps maybe look at it 
for 15 minutes in the morning as you're 
having your coffee or your green tea or 
your smoothie or your water or your 
water with apple cider vinegar vinegar 
whatever it is you drink in the morning 
and look at it for 15 minutes have some 
goals what is it you want to accomplish 
in those 15 minutes because a goal it's 
not acceptable to go oh I didn't see 
anybody in 15 minutes ew I'm gonna put 
this away no you have to have goals 
maybe it's I'm going to message three 
people this morning and then do the same 
thing in the evening and if you help you 
can put 30 minutes into it in the 
morning 30 minutes in the evening don't 
tell me you can't you are awake 16 hours 
a day even if you're working a full-time 
job you might be working 8 to 10 hours 
that leads you another eight to ten out 
that leaves you another oof my math that 
leaves you could be another eight hours 
of waking time could be another six 
hours of waking time you have plenty of 
time to spend 30 to 60 Minutes on this 
okay so have your DDR your daily dating 
routine 
um let's see what else number six 
so many of you 
want to just head straight to the dates 
you see someone good they're like do you 
want to grab a glass of wine do you want 
to grab dinner and you're like yes you 
shoot out of the gate and then you're 
like oh my God that person had no teeth 
or that person sound of nothing like 
they I thought they would or they look 
nothing like they thought they would 
guess what you all 
there is something called the video 
dates so thing number six is do not not 
not not not ever ever ever skip a video 
date every site and every app has video 
built into it there is zero reason for 
you not to do this okay and why do I say 
do video dates rather than meeting 
someone out I know all the things that 
you're going to tell me right now well 
you know there's just a certain 
chemistry when you in person yeah I get 
that you can't hug someone on us on Zoom 
for example but what you can do is take 
a 2d person that's six photos and 200 
words from their profile even from a 
phone call all you can tell is 
somebody's voice but when you wind that 
all together with video you get a real 
3D image of what this person looks like 
and sounds like in real life and you can 
also see what does their background look 
like have they invested time in looking 
good for the date have they invested 
time and looking good does their 
background look good is their camera 
position the right way do they know how 
to navigate the camera right you can 
tell so much more about somebody why 
while doing a video day covet was awful 
for a thousand reasons but one of the 
Silver Linings that came out of it was 
all of the major dating companies 
building video into their sites and apps 
and just because we might be becoming 
more endemic with Comet covid and you 
might feel really comfortable meeting 
people out do not skip the videos date I 
will tell you for my one-on-one Boutique 
clients that are working with us at 
Smart dating Academy most of the dates 
they go on that are disappointing dates 
are dates where they've skipped the 
video so I'm just telling you don't ever 
skip the video okay and now number seven 
let's say you've done the video dates 
you've done all the things you're 
psychotically optimistic you've fixed 
your pick or you're doing a deep dive 
into yourself maybe you're working with 
me now you've got a dating funnel set up 
you've got great photos you've got great 
text in your profile you know one to two 
apps you're working on you've got your 
daily dating routine you're not skipping 
video dates now it's time to get to 
Point number seven meeting for the real 
dates and now that it's summer right 
it's going to be warm everywhere 
including my beloved but freezing gray 
Windy City Chicago you can do things 
outside so Point number seven plan fun 
dates and here's a little tip plan dates 
that number one are active and where you 
can be side by side why why do I say 
that well when you're active okay that 
means you can be walking you can be 
biking you can be going to an amusement 
park you can go to a carnival you can go 
to an art fair whatever it is you're 
doing go to a street festival you're 
side by side and many research studies 
show that when we're side by side 
instead of facing each other eyeball to 
eyeball we tend to disclose more 
intimate interesting information about 
ourselves so if you're sick of boring 
schmoring getting to know you 
conversations try dates where you're 
walking okay you're building adrenaline 
you're active you're getting excited 
adrenaline builds attraction and you're 
side by side so you can actually 
actually have these dates where you're 
disclosing information that's more 
interesting think about sitting on an 
airplane okay most of you that are 
listening have probably been on a plane 
at least once in your life if not a 
thousand times like me and but you've 
sat next to a stranger that by the end 
of the flight feels like one of your 
best friends because you've had this 
long incredibly stimulating conversation 
with this person and you know why it's 
because we're sitting next to each other 
we're not looking at the stranger 
eyeball the eyeball and we tend to 
elicit more interesting tidbits out of 
them because they feel more comfortable 
because they're not looking right at us 
and vice versa right if you're a parent 
and you're thinking about when do you 
get the best information from your kids 
maybe while you're driving them to 
soccer practice or lacrosse practice or 
driving them to school right you're 
sitting side by side so plan fun dates 
after you've done the video that you can 
be active and you can be next to each 
other go for walks do the things so I 
really hope that you have taken notes on 
these seven things that you can do and 
let me repeat them for you one last time 
number one change your mindset and get 
psychotically optimistic number two fix 
your damn picker number three have a 
horse you need a dating life that is a 
horse race and have a dating funnel to 
do that number four start online dating 
the right way and if you're not doing it 
the right way you're not having success 
for God's sakes send me a message 
contact us our smartdatingacademy.com 
Point number five have a daily dating 
routine do something every single day to 
further your dating life because the 
love of your life is not going to be 
dropped into your lap by the stork and 
number six don't ever ever ever ever 
ever skip video dates and number seven 
plan fun dates that are active and side 
by side if you've enjoyed this episode 
share it rate it review it if you need 
more help sign up for our free 
newsletter at smartdatingacademy.com 
fill out any contact form you'll be 
entered into our database I promise you 
we will do good things for you follow me 
on Instagram I often go live I've got 
hours and hours and hours of additional 
Instagram live on igtv footage follow 
Smart dating Academy and if you need a 
consultation invest in yourself invest 
in this process it is your time to do 
this 
signing off with big love to you finding 
love this summer and your Fairy 
Godmother and your fairy Godmother's 
team loves you incredibly and dearly 
know that you're loved and I've waved my 
magic wand for you and love is coming to 
you it's a when not an if 
see you next week 
