if you kind of heard about that one girl 
who threw herself a divorce party that I 
believe was in Vegas and she happened to 
be at an adult concert and Adele 
happened to come out talk to her and her 
friends give her a hug when she found 
out that she was celebrating her divorce 
this ladies and gentlemen is Rebecca 
fine glass it is such a pleasure to be 
here with you Bella 2020. yeah your 
father unexpectedly passes your best 
friend and so you had been married for a 
few years at this point you pulled the 
plug on that so now to Flash Forward all 
that seismic changed in 2022 you're like 
eff it I gotta go grief a bigger 
question is well how do you grieve a 
divorce what does that even feel like 
how does that look for me it looked a 
variety of different ways one of them 
was the divorce party you mentioned 
um but it wasn't always happy looking 
grief is a really complicated set of 
emotions 
