I'm on a bit of a TI raid this these 
days I do a lot of interviews and my 
belief is somebody doesn't understand 
that men and women are different they're 
going to give the wrong advice and so 
I'm so happy that you started with 
understanding men and women are 
different so we have to have a different 
mindset if we want to succeed in having 
loving lasting happy fulfilling 
relationships which people are having 
today you know a lot of people think 
everything's a disaster but it's not as 
you know and I know people are meeting 
each other they're having happy 
relationships they're in love they have 
families this is happening and all we 
get is this sort of negative press and 
the truth is that by understanding how 
to communicate in a new way that maybe 
our parents didn't know and how to find 
a partner in a new way the world has 
changed we can be successful it's people 
like you that help people hold their 
hand and help them find that success so 
I'm really happy to be with you 
