[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
it's your favorite kind of episode it is 
a love story and you guys this love 
story is so tender like as I'm saying it 
I have all the Goosebumps and the chills 
I'm bringing to you an absolutely 
precious ious lovely beautiful 
International client her name is Bianca 
and she's 36 years old and she is from 
Canada and has found love and she is 
here to inspire you and I think a lot of 
you will see yourself in Bianca and I 
want you to know if this sounds like you 
feels like you there is so much hope 
Bianca I'm so delighted 
and honored to have you on this SP 
dating Academy podcast welcome thank you 
so much I'm so happy to be here I am a 
love Club graduate from 2023 it is 
true oh my gosh now where do you live in 
cam enough uh I live in Southwestern 
Ontario uh so it's very close to Toronto 
well very close it's an hour and a half 
to to Toronto um I'm definitely in the 
denser part of the province uh but we 
still get quite a bit of snow the 
legendary snow that everybody talks 
about uh and you know it's actually a 
very beautiful part of the country 
because of the lakes and uh the birds 
I'm into birding I volunteer for Birds 
Canada we get quite a few rare species 
because of the ecosystem uh anyway it's 
a it's a really nice place to live um 
and uh I actually just moved in we just 
moved into our home and we're trying to 
settle in into the area uh and it's just 
a really nice neighborhood a lot of 
families uh a lot of people my age 
actually the demographic just happens to 
be a lot of people my age and a lot of 
people just trying to move up in their 
careers we have a lot of industry in the 
area and that's how that's how I would 
best describe it but the traffic sucks 
if you're wondering yes it sucks all 
over the province from north to south 
east to west there's no way out of it 
it's just sucky it's just sucky traffic 
so Bianca give us a little bit about 
your 
demographics uh so I am 36 years old old 
right now um and I probably didn't start 
seriously dating until I was 28 so very 
late bloomer um no particular reason for 
that I happened to be a chemist from the 
University of Wal so I think I did spend 
quite a bit of time studying I think 
that took up a lot of my time for a long 
time she's a very smart girl by the way 
oh thank you and um I think the best way 
I would describe 
I think it's important to understand my 
upbringing I actually grew up in a a 
very traditional very loving household 
with both my parents uh people always 
assume if you're single you know mom or 
dad must have been out of the picture 
that's not true at all my parents were 
both actually very Hands-On very loving 
uh took me to everything swimming dance 
you name it they were there so I was 
very supported and I had my forever 
Playmate who is my sister and we we 
still she's like she lives like 20 
minutes away from me now so we're still 
very close and my extended family I had 
my entire extended family growing up so 
I was hugely supported um I think what 
actually happened is as a chemists were 
nerdy so you know I'm right it's just 
it's part of the territory um in case 
that wasn't obvious from my birth Canada 
volunteering uh pitch but anyways uh you 
know introverted by Nature uh I think um 
and just and independent adult I don't 
like the word independent because it 
makes me sound like I I never wanted 
anybody or I never needed anybody but I 
just self-sufficient I think is the 
right word so um and really by my mid 
20s almost kind of like a perfect storm 
everyone was married like magic like 
everyone I knew like everyone in my 
family had somebody and all of my 
friends had somebody and there was just 
nobody didn't I you know they just all 
had a really good sense of themselves 
and who they wanted in a partner and so 
they just married the first person they 
picked and like with no issue like 
nobody has problems like everybody's 
just like living life and I'm like how 
did this happen how did you even know 
right like did you like radar was it 
like you I see you you my forever love 
and they could never 
articulate why it worked I think that 
became my frustration because I you know 
yeah as an analytical person like you 
try to get to the bottom of so it's like 
how did you even know to do this um and 
they just you know or how do you resolve 
conflict or how do you not have fights 
just no answers all I heard is when it's 
right when it's the right fit when it's 
the right fit which of course is nothing 
that you can input online or meet at a 
bar right you can't go into the bar 
being like I'm looking for my right fit 
so just if you're not just get out of my 
way and like doesn't happen like that it 
sure does not even if you think there's 
right there's no there's no set 
algorithm right no so people like you 
you know my parents are chemists I 
worked and we had a chemicals company so 
this is probably why Bianca and I jelled 
immediately so right we want a formula 
we want an algorithm right and what 
we're doing is probably the closest 
thing to an algorithm that we can find 
so no 100% And um so basically I was 
walking around with the knowledge Gap 
you know I knew I was missing something 
I just wasn't sure what it was and uh 
and then you know you finally start 
dating and it doesn't work out I 
actually had like my first boyfriend 
who's now happily married to somebody 
else somebody way better suited for him 
by the way cuz people always ask me 
they're like so do you like hate her and 
I'm like no I was like not at 
all I always get these weird questions 
but anyway so he's he's very happily 
married now but when he and I met it was 
at my friend's wedding he was a 
groomsman and I was a bridesmaid and we 
met walking down the aisle it was like 
right out of Hollywood so on that 
criteria alone we should have just 
sailed off into the sunset forever and 
ever and we tried actually for about two 
years and just finally had to call it 
quits because it wasn't getting anywhere 
and then it only got worse you know they 
would like treat me badly not call me 
back could never get them on the phone 
right just all of these things and I 
think the problem is I thought I thought 
about this s and hard like in in 
hindsight and I 
think I don't I know they get picked on 
a lot right now so this is a bad example 
but like Disney we all love Disney we 
all grew up with the movies of Disney 
with the storyline of Disney but it just 
like if you see this plot kind of over 
and over again what basically gets 
internalized is I have to be the hottest 
person in the room I have to find the 
hottest person the other hottest person 
in the room we have to do this before 
we're like 20 and you know and he has to 
be like super rich and slay a dragon and 
I have to be like trapped in a tower 
with like an evil stepmother otherwise 
we can't be happy and so you get to this 
notion that you have to have this 
Fantastical storyline in order to find 
love passionate NeverEnding love and 
it's so odd because so you have this 
like massive expectation hanging over 
you no criteria of what Prince Charming 
even looks like and everybody's just 
like you'll find him just go forth no 
worries like abolutely 
so like no Playbook and it just kept 
getting like worse like truly it just 
kept getting worse because so then I had 
probably like my worst breakup you know 
um like a serious relationship that just 
abruptly ended because it was a dumpster 
fire and then I go back into the dating 
world and the first guy I date is 
married and the second guy I date is not 
only married but like she finds me on 
Facebook to be like what is your problem 
and I'm like I didn't know he was 
married and so it just like deteriorated 
it just kept getting worse and worse and 
worse and I am a fan of Steve Harvey 
American comedian Steve Harvey I'm sure 
a lot of you are and I watched his show 
for a long time and Bella was on the 
program um and I remember thinking 
because you guys had a really 
interesting one where like you went 
through their profile pictures you know 
and kind of explained what they were 
doing wrong in their profile and I and I 
remember thinking that's the first time 
I've ever seen it analyzed like before 
that moment I had never had 
anybody Point anything out to me and I 
thought well that was really unique and 
then I continued to see you on on ABC 
and I think M 
NBC if that sounds right so I just kept 
seeing you on television like all the 
time I was like she must be somebody um 
so and then I started following your 
YouTube channel um and then I think I 
finally just decided I'm going to make 
the call I'll just I'll just go for it I 
had looked through the website I had 
watched you on YouTube so I had kind of 
gotten a sense of you and what the Smart 
dating Academy might be about and so I 
thought I'm not getting anywhere right I 
you know as as an academic I thought I 
just need a professional coach that's 
basically it you know so I I made the 
plunge and we got going on the phone 
coaching and that was like right when 
covid hit like literally we go into 
lockdowns right because I think I was 
getting I was like I'll just fly to 
Chicago and like the Border gets shut 
down the Border shut down right right 
and you're like okay I can't come to you 
so I'm gonna do this remotely and thank 
goodness for Zoom yeah thank God because 
not just zoom but thank God for online 
dating and just because otherwise I 
would have just been trapped in my condo 
waiting for Co to end so we were we were 
in this really strange bubble and I 
think a lot of that we pioneered 
together and the other clients right 
because we were just getting used to do 
video dating cuz there was no other 
option uh and I think that's just one 
aspect of how the Smart dating Academy 
innovates like they 
don't I think it's very important to 
note that like they like you guys go 
with the trend like you don't try to 
create Trends you don't try to bucket 
you're just like okay what is people 
doing right now how can we optimize it 
and so you know I was on board for this 
but what I was not prepared for and I'll 
be honest about this because I did think 
it was going to be a lot of hair and 
makeup and there's some hair and makeup 
and how to dress which I still use to 
this day but I remember when I got 
obsessed by Lindsay because I was 
receiving the feedback that dates with 
me felt like interviews which is not 
what anyone trying to be a princess 
locked in a tower wants to hear 
so like it's just like the exact 
opposite of what you're going for so 
Lindsay was like yeah I can see it and 
she was like do you work in a male 
dominated industry and I actually do and 
I was like how would you even know that 
and she was like cuz you sit like this 
and I was sitting like this when she was 
talking to me and I was like arms 
crossed arms crossed leaning back I 
think it's probably as like far back as 
I could go probably something like this 
and so and she was like you're not 
smiling she was like and you're firing 
questions at me right so you know it is 
what it is and I was like okay and so 
then we had like a couple of I think 
mergency sessions to try and fix this 
because there was no way I was going to 
go into the dating field until like this 
got corrected and I had to go get photos 
because all my photos up to that point 
had not even been selfies because that 
would have been better it was like 
friends of mine like when I'm playing 
with their kids like there was one in 
particular that I always remember cuz 
she and I still make fun of this so she 
had like some kind of flower in the 
garden and I was like this will be great 
for my profile shot and so like we kind 
of shove her kid out of the photo and 
she takes the shot and that's my head 
shot for like online dating so Lindsay 
was like these have to go you have to go 
get like real photos so while we were 
waiting for that to happen um I did like 
the program and so I remember being 
blown away by my attachment style I am a 
recovered anxious attachment style um I 
think probably the biggest thing I 
learned from that was direct 
communication oh my gosh you have no 
idea how much a difference that makes 
just in itself just to be able to say 
what you mean when you mean to say it 
has already just been an improvement but 
so my attachment style you know how to 
present yourself confidence CU so much 
of it right like a first date is so 
stressful you know you have no idea who 
you're meeting you have no idea how 
you're going to come off and so so much 
of it is insecurity it's kind of 
self-sabotage because you already go in 
thinking this is going to be a disaster 
because I don't know what I'm doing and 
then it is because you don't know what 
you're doing so I think like correcting 
my mindset I remember it's a 
psychotically optimistic do you do you 
ladies still use that oh my God 
absolutely all day every day it's just 
it's the only way to be just just 
borderline delusional optimistic you 
know it's a really nice way to live 
actually to be honest right um yeah no 
it is the much more freeing way to live 
um it's better to just try and fail than 
to never try at all I think is also what 
I've learned from this experience but my 
point is so you know Lindsay and I were 
doing kind of all of this training and 
Bella and I were joking about this 
before so Lindsay asked me because I'm 
not great with small talk so she was 
like well you have to go talk to the 
cashiers at the grocery store right easy 
in Easy out if it doesn't work you leave 
and I was like what do you mean she was 
like say hi to them and was like I don't 
I don't think I can handle this so I 
went to a so to try this out and you 
know when you like sweat but not from 
like your forehead but like from your 
back like I don't know if anybody ever 
it's anxiety it's like cortisol sweat 
yeah like you like you're like I'm going 
into a fever pitch and like I just have 
like oranges right because I didn't want 
me to have to like pack in case this 
went wrong so I'm just like literally 
with oranges and like you know she's 
like a a kid basically I went for the 
youngest person I could find because I 
thought well this will be easy because 
they I feel like they're talkative maybe 
that's not a fair stereo and so I'm just 
like with my oranges trying to make 
small talk with this person and you know 
it's brutal but the net result is you 
can talk to anybody like that's what 
becomes the default like if you practice 
long enough you can just introduce 
yourself to anyone which I I honestly 
never thought would be possible so like 
now if I just see somebody in the road 
and they have something in their car 
that I wanted to buy I just go up to 
them I'm like does this work for you 
like is it good for you and my husband 
like can't believe it like Derek like I 
don't know how you do this and I'm like 
practice it's all about practice um like 
in a 
way you know you can you can approach 
somebody in a non- creepy way that 
doesn't make them feel threatened and 
makes you feel confident it's just about 
practice really this whole thing is just 
about a learned skill set that you kind 
of just take with you 
but uh I could hear myself babbling 
Bella you're welcome to like redirect me 
or cut me off any I no you're exactly I 
mean this is awesome I think Bianca what 
I most I remember when you came in to us 
and you're like I know certain things 
about myself like I like I think it was 
guys that are interested in sports you 
liked people that worked in the trades 
right you're like right like I know the 
kinds of guys I want like I like the 
I like I'm trying to remember exactly 
what we went through I'm like this is 
great like you have a really good sense 
of who a good partner is going to be for 
you but then it was really about 
addressing these negative beliefs right 
it's like is there anybody out there for 
me how how is this going to work am I 
actually going to find somebody is 
online dating going to work and you know 
relationships have to be hard they have 
to be high conflict because you had come 
from high conflict ups and downs in your 
prior relationship so it was really 
working on these 
beliefs I honestly thought that was like 
a component like that was a mandatory 
component like if the couple wasn't 
fighting they weren't moving forward 
like you know I just I have a list of I 
think false values that really held me 
back for a long time so all the good men 
are taken oh my gosh how how many times 
do we hear that even now day in and day 
out which is not even remotely true um 
I'm too old 
nonsense uh you know just friendly 
reminder of people who are in their 60s 
date in case you didn't know 70s and ' 
80s too it's like I didn't know either 
but it's 100% true uh I've made too many 
mistakes that was a painful one I 
definitely thought I had mixed it 
somehow like I had missed my opportunity 
right because everybody at this point 
like everyone I knew was like married 
with like three kids not even just like 
one kid like three and so I thought I 
just missed this somehow which is not 
true at all um Lasting Love is a scarce 
commodity I don't know why my parents 
have been happily married for almost 40 
years I don't know if you know everybody 
I know has been married now for at least 
10 years so I don't know where I got 
that from oh this was important if I had 
been treated badly in relationship I did 
something to deserve that now look take 
it with a grain of salt if you're 
combative you're combative right and it 
will cause problems but you know as an 
anxious attachment style you get so 
obsessed with the idea that you have to 
go out and just I don't know hook this 
person in and you have to get everything 
right and if you don't do it like this 
was it but none of that's true like 
you're a human being you're going to 
mess up right and if their response to 
that is to Stonewall you is to make fun 
of you like these are red flads which 
we're getting to because I think that's 
the most important part of the program 
but um yeah all relationships have high 
conflict I actually believe that it's 
crazy oh and my career and hobbies will 
affect my ability to find a partner I 
I'm an academic like so I just I happen 
to be in like that labeled career for 
women right so as a chemist you just 
feel like that's a death sentence for 
dating you know you just think I'm way 
too nerdy or I'm going to be you know 
all thee conceived Notions they have 
of I don't know academic women right 
Sone of yeah true um so I really thought 
I remember for a long time I wouldn't 
even mention my hobbies you know just 
like of going out to do field research 
for birds like just total lockdown 
wouldn't even say that at all cuz I was 
like how would I even bring that up 
organically and uh so wouldn't even go 
there and that women are at a natural 
disadvantage in dating I don't know 
where we get this idea from uh I don't 
know how that gets manifested because I 
was trying to think of where in the 
universe I got this idea I I really just 
don't know I guess maybe the obsessive 
Beauty culture I really just have no 
idea but it's also just not none of this 
is true these are all actually these are 
all just toxic ideas so that you'll 
settle for somebody who treats you badly 
that's basically all they are so it just 
prevents like 100% it just it's just 
like so if somebody's just like modestly 
nice to you you're like that's the one 
and like that's not remotely true at all 
but anyways so going back to what I 
learned from the dating Academy so yeah 
so presenting well when you're nervous 
so I finally you know I go back into the 
dating game nervous totally nervous 
hated all of my photos by the way 
because statistically we all picked the 
worst ones of ourselves so Lindsay 
picked them I remember thinking I can't 
do this I even said to my mother I was 
like I can't do this she didn't pick a 
single one that I wanted and mom was 
like well I guess that's what you signed 
up for right and so I still get 
compliments about those pictures to this 
day like people still ask thank you that 
people still ask me where did you get 
these done but I remember at the time 
thinking cuz I wasn't reconciled to 
liking myself I don't like a single 
photo that they posted it was the only 
time I got nervous I was like maybe this 
won't work cuz I don't like any of these 
but anyway so we set out my profile I'm 
back in the Dating Game and of course so 
you're in and you're getting dates right 
you were getting a lot of dates I 
flooded actually this that's not even 
for bragging points that's just a net 
effect of the Smart dating Academy my 
inbox exploded because I even remember 
Lindsay saying give it a day and you 
know don't be terribly overwhelmed just 
kind of go through it I remember 
thinking there's going to be like two 
there I think I had like 50 hits 
probably within like 48 hours and I 
remember thinking my God if this 
momentum goes up like I'll never find 
him like it actually became like the 
opposite reaction you know overwhelming 
yeah it it was and so you know so okay 
so now now what so we start asking 
because that's the thing right like 
people always think online dating you 
skip the process where you skip the love 
process you actually have to do the 
process no matter what no matter where 
you meet them no matter how you meet 
them you have to feel them out there's 
no way around that so of course how do 
we do that so the probably the biggest 
asset that I got from the academy that I 
will use forever is the red flag radar I 
don't think there was anything more 
valuable but also just like just to keep 
you safe like because you know that's 
one reason I really wanted to do the 
podcast where I am there was a story you 
can look up on the news we had a woman 
in her 60s she became a widow went into 
the dating world had my problem no idea 
how to do this uh ended up in Hong Kong 
in prison because she accidentally 
became a drug mule for the person she 
met online this was a grandmother okay 
and in Co so her relatives couldn't even 
visit her while she was God incarcerated 
so my my point is like there are risks 
to meeting people that you don't know 
and there are risks online like 
catfishing so I remember kind of being 
walked through of all the warning signs 
of what to look for right they don't 
agree to video dates you know if they 
don't you can't talk to them on the 
phone you know all of like they won't 
meet you at a place where you feel 
comfortable like getting into all of 
that but I remember the particular one 
that surprised me was being rude to 
weight staff I actually thought that was 
being a bit picky cuz I thought people 
have bad days some weight staff are bad 
right but I have to say it spared me 
from one nasty fish because we went into 
Tim Horton which is like a chain over 
here right we we have that everywhere at 
every street corner so they serve coffee 
and we went in and he blasted the kid 
behind the counter and like I was coming 
in late so I didn't catch it so I don't 
know if the kid messed up or whatever 
but he's like 17 you know so I was 
thinking it is what it is and I was like 
it's coffee like they'll just remake 
your coffee blasted him blasted him so 
hard I actually felt uncomfortable 
sitting in the restaurant afterwards and 
in the past I would have said oh you 
know he's a guy guy right the tattoos 
you know it is what it is but I followed 
the academy rules and I thought I am not 
going to call this person back well he 
had a girlriend who was expecting a baby 
so spared me that one right cuz that's 
just what it is right he was very 
selfish he was very conceited he didn't 
think he had to answer to anybody that's 
really what that meant and that's really 
what those red 
flag I love the line 
of I don't I don't remember how you 
phrase it it's like people show us who 
they really are our job is to believe 
them 
absolutely just 100% 100% like because 
that's really everything I ever needed 
to know about that individual you know 
and I haven't seen him since and I don't 
want to but my point is that's all I 
ever need to know about him I don't like 
that was it that was all I needed to see 
and so I think the old version of me 
would have like laughed it off and 
thought well he's just having a bad day 
you know that's just what life is on the 
job for this poor 17-year-old but no 
like it's not okay it's not okay it's 
not okay it's a character it's 
displaying character right and if you 
flash forward now you're newly married 
but you've been in this relationship and 
we'll get to Derek in a minute but you 
see that things don't always go well 
right and when you look at somebody who 
flips out over a freaking coffee and 
loses their load over that what is that 
person going to be like one day when 
they're angry at you their intimate 
partner right if they in public what are 
they going to do to you in 
private yeah what that's but you always 
have to ask yourself you always have to 
ask yourself could you deal with this 
person when things aren't great that's 
really that's all you should be asking 
yourself that's all you should be asking 
yourself majority of the time yes common 
values of course are important I did do 
the eight dates program by the John Gman 
Institute you know we did that dererk 
and I did that before we got married and 
that's how we had confidence in in 
getting married because we had gone 
through all of our core values kind of 
what we wanted for the future we had had 
all those conversations you can't have 
those conversations with somebody who 
screams at a 17-year-old over coffee 
it's not going to happen they're not 
there for it they won't stick around for 
it to be honest they'll end up ghosting 
you they'll do you the favor because 
they won't sit through it no so definit 
definitely the red flag ridar I've even 
used it I applied it almost immediately 
to my career I had interviewed for a job 
and you know the supervisor was kind of 
just given me all the wrong Vibes and I 
was looking at HR like is it me like can 
I see this and uh it wasn't anything in 
particular I think it was a couple of 
comments you know about some very 
reasonable questions I had made and I 
just you know trust in my gut is I had 
learned how to do and I did not take the 
job and I have learned that since then 
they've had very high turnover 
wow yeah they lost three staff members 
just under I want to say like 14 months 
you know just total just a revolving 
door at this moment in time because High 
conflicts right it's very challenging to 
work with people who aren't willing to 
work with you you know so yeah you have 
unfort it sucks I I know it really sucks 
like when you meet somebody and they're 
attractive and you think oh they're so 
much fun and then you you see the red 
flag right like it comes out and you're 
just like oh like no like why you please 
please just no no no red flags and then 
the red flag shows itself and if you 
have that scarcity mindset that's when 
you're willing to sweep it under the rug 
because you're like oh there's no good 
ones left I'm being too picky this is 
fine he's a gu's guy and we sweep that 
stuff under the rug and that's where we 
go off 
track that's exactly what happens that's 
exactly how it happens because you just 
you just make allowance for it you just 
I'm not saying anybody out there is like 
well I'll fix it I know I know some 
people know that's not possible right 
that's not how we think we're educated 
people we just say we just make an 
allowance we just say it was a bad day 
we just rule it out we dismiss it for 
exactly that reason because you think 
even though at the time you're getting 
like 50 dates in your inbox you think to 
yourself I'll never find somebody who 
will match me so it's really that 
mindset that psychotically optimistic 
mindset it in itself 
kind of like deflects so much of the 
people that we don't want to end up 
being with there's no other way to say 
that I know that sounds really harsh but 
you know who's not right for you right 
you just got to keep the mindset I will 
find the lid to my pot I will find this 
person you have to you have to stay 
focused on that with anything with your 
career with your whatever you're going 
for you have to say I I will get there 
and kind of navigate as you're trying to 
get there because it's it's not easy it 
wasn't a straight line you know it was a 
lot of even after you know the second 
time going back with the Smart dating 
Academy that's probably when you were 
the most helpful cuz you're you're still 
being rejected you know by people you 
like people who don't call you back for 
whatever reason people who were talking 
to you for like as much as four weeks 
and then they're like this isn't working 
for me and you're like really cuz you've 
been talking to me every day for four 
weeks but okay like what just happened 
right and you get no answers right you 
have to live with no answers 
you know and I think those were days cuz 
I I I remember you and Lindsay Fielding 
a lot of those emails of like this 
didn't work he didn't call me back blah 
blah blah because you know relatives 
aren't great with stuff like that right 
like if you go to relatives and and 
you're like well he never called me back 
relatives might say to you well what did 
you do wrong right it's that always the 
response you you're hoping for right 
it's like oh you screwed that up again 
honey what did you do you're too picky 
and that's why we have our clients not 
talk to family and friends about their 
relationships like leave it with us we 
will keep you on track because as 
well-intentioned as they 
are they don't do this for work it's 
like asking your neighbor who's a lawyer 
if he can do your root canal it it just 
you know what I I say this with love it 
actually just doesn't work there I have 
two fundamental reasons one is hilarious 
they will pick what works best for them 
this has happened to me on blind dates 
and I've known immediately who the 
friend was that was like I've got 
somebody for her like I it's like I have 
the person sitting across from me and so 
right they they pick what would work for 
them not like not necessarily what might 
be right for you and also yeah they 
don't necessarily know what they're 
doing like that's a harsh reality but 
it's true right especially in my case 
because they all managed to pick 
somebody right out the gate nobody dated 
there was nobody who had any idea how to 
use Bumble people didn't know what I was 
talking about they were like you mean 
match right and like no Bumble I was 
like there's more than one like they 
didn't even you know what I mean so some 
of us no clue some of us just don't have 
anything that they're working with but 
um so sorry I've lost my train of 
thought yeah so red flags that's kind of 
I love that and I love that the rubric 
of red flagged helped you with dating 
and it helped you in your own life with 
your career and and tell us now okay so 
you're you're internalizing the model 
your dating SDA style Smart dating 
Academy style now tell us about this 
amazing man Derek who is now your 
husband um how did he enter your 
life well that has its own cute story we 
were still in the height of Co it was at 
the very start of 2021 and Ontario had 
actually just gone back into kind of 
like an emergency lockdown it wasn't 
planned so Premier deg Ford locked us 
down over Christmas hugely controversial 
but they they felt like they had no 
choice and so um he and I had to meet 
outside in January so it's like minus 20 
and there's nowhere to go there's no 
coffee shop there's no movies there's no 
dinner there's no drinks you're just we 
were in a public park walking around in 
minus 20° weather he actually had to use 
the restroom couldn't find any cuz they 
were all 
locked and uh I had applied Smart dating 
Academy I thought okay he this guy loves 
War history because we had done the 
video date that's one reason I felt safe 
meeting him he had no idea how to do it 
it was adorable so he turned on his uh 
camera like his cell phone camera and I 
could just see like this eyeball like 
that's it and I kept telling to him like 
pull it back and he had no idea what I 
was talking about and then like it cut 
because Bumble had like just put in that 
feature and it wasn't reliable so it cut 
out on him and then we ended up talking 
on the phone but I thought okay I'll 
meet him he's he's trying he's trying 
and so when we first got to the date we 
had agreed to meet at a grocery store 
because it was one of the only places 
open and lit and he actually went to the 
wrong Food Basics on the other side of 
town and he was texting me like where 
are you I don't see you and I was like I 
don't see you either and then I was like 
oh I know where you are and so he gr to 
the correct Food Basics and we walked 
around Inus 20° weather talking just 
very casually you know um and he was 
actually very quiet my husband has my 
problem he's even more introverted and I 
would say even less social you know he 
has this group of buddies they're 
they're ride or die but he's just not 
great at reaching out to people who he 
doesn't know and my husband works 
extended hours you know he can work 12 
12 to 14 hour days so you know he 
doesn't have a lot of time to just go 
out and try and meet people so that's 
why he was online and um I actually went 
home after the first date thinking he's 
never going to call me back because he 
didn't you didn't say anything really 
like I was doing most of the talking as 
you can hear now and I wasn't really 
getting a lot of questions and so I 
thought I'll just never hear from him 
again and uh he did call me back and we 
went walking for a second time and even 
colder weather and uh just like for 
hours just literally I think until like 
our faces was going to fall off and I 
thought I remember thinking on the 
second day he has a sense of humor you 
know it's pretty dry because he was shy 
right like he was kind of being like 
okay I don't want to flood her with too 
much but I thought you know if he could 
be himself if he wasn't nervous he'd 
actually have a sense of humor and to be 
honest we just kept dating that way 
because we had no choice like everything 
stayed locked and uh and so we like if I 
show the grandkids in the future it's 
ironically just going to be a bunch of 
photos of birds in the winter like those 
were our photos from our first days in 
fact we had this as our wedding cake 
topper on one of our dates we saw this 
Cardinal and he was really puffed up you 
know cuz he's getting ready to do his 
thing he's getting ready to date with us 
and uh we just stared at this bird CU he 
was really and I I like birds and I knew 
a lot about Cardinals and I shared this 
with him which is what I write the death 
Nell in the past right to just never 
talk about my nerdy hobbies and he was 
just like so fixated and so it ended up 
being our wedding cake topper that we 
were just male and female cardinals and 
that's what I mean like a yeah like it's 
so sweet on its own you know without 
like there's nothing wrong with 
Hollywood like if you meet somebody and 
it's love at first sight go for it you 
know like I'm not going to say take what 
you can get that's the absolute wrong 
attitude we want here but like go with 
it and and that's another thing I just 
want to say because like I have a lot of 
friends who like we're traditional and a 
lot of us are religious and so they feel 
like if they go online it messes with 
their fate it messes with the path the 
universe has laid out for them and if 
somebody who fully believes that God 
could literally mail the person to your 
door like I still believe that even now 
I just would like to challenge you that 
if that scenario hasn't happened you 
might not have the social skills to 
carry the relationship forward and 
that's something serious to consider 
because I think had I stayed an anxious 
Detachment style where the need is to 
text endlessly and call endlessly and 
check in to see where we're doing it 
wouldn't have worked because his job 
just doesn't allow that kind of spare 
time like he doesn't have time to 
constantly answer my t text messages and 
constantly reassure me that he's there 
for me so I I I would just urge you to 
consider that if you haven't had a 
particular setup happened that's not the 
end of the world it might just be that 
you have to go a different way that 
that's just your path and it can still 
just be as fun and cute and romantic 
it's just not a Hollywood by line that's 
that's it that's all you're missing 
you're just not like right like he's not 
Chris Hemsworth and we're not Anne 
halfway as much as we would like to be 
like it just right like but that's okay 
like that's what I mean like we're just 
like being a normal person looking for 
another normal ordinary person I think I 
should say I'm sure the other two are 
totally normal but just looking for 
another ordinary person that in itself 
ends up being a fun story because that 
was our dating like that was the big 
joke when we were dating is that for 
like six months we could only meet 
outside he couldn't meet we couldn't 
meet any of our relatives my father has 
a chronic cough so there was like no way 
that was happening and uh I think his 
father was recovering from like an arm 
injury that had required surgery so I 
couldn't meet his side of the family so 
it was just kind of like us in the 
secret bubble for months and months um 
you did walk 
outside for all months all those months 
that's that's what I mean like no like I 
think we went on one date cuz I think 
lockdown lifted just long enough that we 
could actually go in and eat a meal and 
then it like immediately went back under 
lockdown again for Easter that year like 
our particular provin and so I don't 
think he actually met my parents until 
June but by that point we had already 
done like the eight days and we had 
already spent all of this time together 
so there was no risk and I didn't really 
need I say this gently because I love my 
parents obviously and their opinion 
means quite a bit to me but I didn't 
really need anybody's like approval or 
or validation at that point I had enough 
kind of security in the relationship 
that I thought this might actually be it 
already even back then I didn't say 
anything cuz you know I do the whole 
year right we always recommend you do 
the whole year but I I just remember 
thinking this at the very least this is 
very different just very different it's 
promising and I know that we did you 
knew who your elevator people were the 
people that made you happy and we talked 
about red flags but then it's what are 
the green flags and I know from early on 
he met your green flags he you know 
loved your hobbies liked you for you was 
supportive and a cheerleader and your 
relationship was just easy overall and 
easy doesn't mean there's no conflict 
but it means we can navigate through 
things EAS easily and for listeners I 
just want to you knowk back to one point 
I know you know when Bianca was saying 
about Hollywood and everybody wants 
their meat cute to be something 
different and we don't expect that to be 
online dating to some sense but if you 
look at an amazing high quality guy like 
Derek who is introverted and who yes has 
you know great friends but a small group 
is not going to be the guy that's going 
to walk into a PB and be like hey the 
guy that's going to talk to the cashier 
even if he's got a sack of oranges with 
him so the place when you're meeting the 
place I'm not saying online dating is 
easy or it's without flaws or but it 
levels the playing field people good 
people that are more introverted but 
would make great Partners they feel more 
secure and like they actually have a 
shot at this by doing online dating so 
that can be your meet cute and it's a 
okay right right now the data shows 
since I started this business 15 years 
ago that one in three marriages take 
place because of online dating I think 
that number is dreadfully understated so 
I just wanted to highlight the meet cute 
I mean listen to this story you met on a 
dating app and you met and he was at the 
wrong store and he didn't know how to do 
a video date even before that and you 
dated eyeball but then you're like he's 
trying and then he was at the wrong 
grocery store and then your wedding 
Toppers were Cardinals right it's like 
all of this stuff you couldn't plan a 
cuter story than that that's that's what 
I wanted to get across like I think I 
think people get held back because they 
become so convinced that it has to be A+ 
b equal C and if it's not that it's just 
not happening or it just can't be and 
it's just that's just such a 
misconception we are flooded by that 
media line I think endlessly just 
endlessly oh my gosh we just get fed all 
these false values that if it doesn't if 
it if he's not a particular way my 
husband would never walk into a bar and 
just go up into a woman and be like you 
know what I think you're stunning and I 
think you're the one for me never he 
would die he he would just we wouldn't 
be able to handle it I don't think he 
could I don't think he could do to be 
honest he would vaporize it would just 
never happen VAP even the hours sorry 
even the hours that he was working like 
there's no way he at the time he was 
working 12 hours a day six days a week a 
a week so we were dating I think like 
either every Saturday or every Sunday 
just for a long time for a long time and 
that's just how that's just how it was 
um but uh yeah yeah no and I'm just very 
supportive very supportive of all 
everything that I I think I was most 
afraid of right just like super nerdy 
into all of this just right like who do 
you know cataloges Birds right but just 
like into it you know because he likes 
hiking so it's not an issue right we'll 
just go hiking and he'll be like oh is 
that something over there you know what 
I mean like right you just kind of you 
just lean in you just up leaning in but 
easy yes I remember absolutely easy 
because for a long long long long time 
and I don't know where I got this from 
because it's not modeled for me like 
it's not like everybody I know has 
healthy n like healthy normal good 
relationships but for some reason I 
thought if this is not an uphill climb I 
am just not making it to the top of that 
mountain and that is not it's actually 
exhausting that's what you'll end up 
doing to yourself you'll just like if 
you if you're like listening to this and 
you're like I hate dating you know I'm 
exhausted I'm confused I have no idea 
what to look for it it's it's because 
you're operating with the wrong mindset 
just I know that's hard to hear right 
because a lot of us are intelligent 
people a lot of us are very capable 
people who can make all of our own 
decisions right I think that was 
probably the biggest blow to my ego was 
that despite having like a University 
degree I couldn't date you know you're 
just walking around like hitch like that 
movie like I watch that movie now and 
I'm like oh my God like that was it that 
was that moment like that's how I see 
myself in the past now and it's actually 
hilarious that it became a movie cuz I 
was like I'm not the only one like 
somebody obviously lived that too um but 
right like you just it's that hard 
moment of where you're just sitting down 
being like like I just don't know what 
I'm doing like I just don't know what 
I'm doing I just have to accept this and 
move on and move and people ask people 
are like you're like the real life hitch 
I'm like yes we are yeah you are that's 
right that's absolutely right actually 
that's hilarious that I didn't think of 
that before but that is so true that is 
so true oh my God I think because I like 
the idea of you as a fairy godmother I I 
love that con I like that too I like 
that too um I love the Fairy Godmother 
and I'm just I you know for you to find 
have found that perfect leer pot it 
makes me so happy I remember the days of 
Instagram live and you were always there 
always chiming in you know boosting 
other people up I knew you would be a 
very special person and I've worked with 
a lot of people and you were one of the 
most um absorptive people if I can like 
you just absorb things immediately and 
you're like oh my gosh yes and so 
coachable and you just it's like you're 
locked and loaded we give you a thing 
and you're like I'm going to the grocery 
store and I'm going to bring my oranges 
and and so when you have guidance most 
importantly and I'm so glad that you 
enlisted us but really you did the heavy 
lifting and you did the thing right you 
can hire the best trainer in the world 
to try lose 50 pounds in the best 
nutritionist but if you're not going to 
change and take the advice that your 
team is giving you you're not going to 
make progress and what you did was you 
took a after every single call you 
dutifully went back and you did the 
thing and I couldn't be prouder of you 
and I'm not in a second I mean we're 
going to post Bianca's photos on this 
page you're going to see how gorgeous 
she is and she's very 
talk but Heros were gorgeous because 
she's gorgeous and speaking of gorgeous 
tell us about the text that you sent me 
over Thanksgiving what was the gift that 
Derek got you for Christmas oh for 
Christmas so I have this very cute this 
is he surprised me with this because we 
weren't originally going to do gifts uh 
but I got him a gift and so I think he 
was just really touched but also just 
like oh no like now I have to get her 
something so he was going through his 
Instagram and it was an ad where you can 
make like a custom ornament and so it's 
the two of us I'll just see if I can 
it's the two of us together and I'm 
shocked that he managed to put this 
together himself like he got my hair I 
actually own those boots um like 
completely and that's what he looks like 
he my husband is quite blonde um and 
it's just so sweet you know it just he 
just kind of surprised me with it out of 
nowhere um and it was so touching and I 
was trying for hours to be like confess 
that this was your mother because I get 
along really well with my mother-in-law 
like she's hilarious we drink really 
hard together I usually have to leave my 
car there but I so you know what I mean 
like so I was like tell me this was mama 
Lou and like even now I'm waiting for 
her to like crack and call me from 
Florida and be like it was 100% me but 
no she he insists it was him and I think 
that's I think that just kind of 
summarizes the whole thing that's what 
you want you want somebody who just for 
fun wants to be really sweet to you it's 
going to make me cry so we have to move 
quickly past this topic because it's 
really it's just really touching and 
it's going to be on our tree this year 
um I took it down so so that you could 
um I took it off the tree so that people 
could see it cuz I don't know how well 
you can see the tree but this is this is 
our Christmas tree we're doing a little 
bit of remodeling on the other side of 
the house so I made sure this was the 
actual background and not what's on the 
other side of the computer but uh yeah 
so just really just really sweet um and 
you know it's just so nice to have 
someone to lean on it's actually like a 
team it's it's a team Dynamic it's not 
you trying to live up to somebody's 
expectations it's not somebody running 
the show it's just the two of you you 
you know kind of working on it and 
working on it's not even the right word 
just in tandem the two of you are just 
like in Partners your partners in life 
which I love and I'm gonna have you send 
me a picture of the ornament so that we 
can post it on your web page on your 
page on the Smart dating Academy site in 
addition to your pictures from your 
photo shoot so you can see how cute she 
is and their wedding photos I mean they 
literally are just like a little 
supermodel couple but I'm so so so happy 
for you like my face kind of hurts from 
smiling through this epod as you can see 
and do you have any last gems that you 
want to drop on on our dear 
listener um I hav't 
asked I I can end it on a fun note which 
I think was a good sign of things to 
come I had thought of ice breakers for a 
long time on the website like you know 
because on Bumble women make their first 
move so I thought what can I ask this 
person that isn't how are you right 
because it doesn't really give people 
much leeway so I thought okay uh if you 
could be anything in the ocean what 
would you be right cuz again I'm a nerd 
and looking back I can't believe I 
actually went that route but anyways so 
if you could be anything in the ocean 
what would you be and this is true I 
would say all the like all of the men 
without fail just said great white shark 
just everybody great white shark just 
had to be Alpha apex predator and so it 
was like hilarious because I thought 
well this actually backfired because I'm 
getting the exact same answer over and 
over again I had one guy say octopus 
kudos to wherever you are right now in 
the in the universe I'm sure you were 
also happily married um but darrk said 
hammerhead shark and I laughed and I 
said why would you go for shark and not 
go for white he said well Hammerheads 
are actually more vicious they actually 
attack more people and they eat more 
people and I was like you in I was like 
that's the most scientific cancer I 
could have had because he was actually 
the last person I messaged before I was 
going to take a bit of a break again on 
Bumble because I did I got overwhelmed 
by by suitors all of the sudden so I 
thought I'm going to take a break and he 
was the very last person I messaged and 
that was the response I got and I 
thought I got to give this a try have to 
I thought that's just hilarious 
Hammerhead I learned something new you 
guys today about the ocean that 
Hammerheads are more 
vicious than great white sharks go Derek 
that one you know you could have gone 
either way on that one you could have 
been like ah red flag on this one who's 
looking for the highest you know level 
of Predator but I totally kidding I'm so 
happy for you we couldn't be happier for 
you Lindsay and I send you massive love 
and thank you so much for being on to 
tell your amazing meat cute story um 
you're the best Storyteller and I wish I 
could just like jump through the screen 
or the airwaves and give you a giant hug 
um that is our drag our you and I have 
always been long distance that's always 
been our issue someday we will meet 
someday we will meet I'm con that would 
be awesome that would be awesome happy 
to share my story anytime and any medium 
the Instagram live you know I just I 
just want the program to help more 
people and to do what it's done for me 
right it changed my life I'm happily 
married now I want that for everybody 
listening so it's going to make me cry 
we have to God you just made me 
cry oh I love you Bianca thank you so 
much for coming 
on 
