[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart taters 
welcome back to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi your host and 
so excited to be here with you today you 
guys always want to know we all want to 
know right especially if you're single 
but even if you're not single if you're 
in a relationship if you're meeting 
friends for the first time how can you 
tell if someone 
likes you 
so what I'm going to teach you about 
today are many tips about becoming 
Sherlock Holmes and being able to decode 
the body language of the person that you 
are chatting with the person that you 
might be in a meeting with you might be 
on a date with you might be on a video 
chat with how do you know that this 
person is into you right I always tell 
our Smart dating Academy clients watch 
what they do not necessarily what they 
say right and do is also let's look at 
body language and why is body language 
important there was a study that came 
out in the 1960s which is still the most 
widely cited study today about how we 
form first impressions of people 
okay so what they found is the scientist 
was named Albert Moravian and he was out 
of UCLA is that 93 did you hear me 93 of 
the way that we interpret people whether 
we have a positive first impression or a 
negative or a neutral 93 is based on 
non-verbal communication the way we look 
the way our eye contact is the 
expression on our face what we're doing 
with our hands the way our bodies are 
leaning not leaning what we're wearing 
93 guys is how people are evaluating us 
do they like us do they not are we warm 
are we cold and what I want to teach you 
about today is how do you start to 
understand what is in that 93 so not 
only can you Ace it and create a great 
first impression but more importantly 
the subject of today is how can you tell 
if some someone is potentially into you 
okay so are you ready take out your 
notebooks take some notes because I'm 
going to give you a lot in this episode 
or always feel free to download it so 
you can play it again and again maybe 
you can play this again before you go on 
a first date or a second date or a third 
date with someone anytime you're kind of 
nervous and you want to know does she 
like me does he like me so cue number 
one okay clue number one I should say is 
something that you might not have called 
heard of and it's called mirroring okay 
now what does mirroring mean mirroring 
means if you stop and observe is this 
person kind of doing the same things 
that you're doing much much research out 
there shows that when we like people 
when we are attracted to people when we 
are interested in people we start to 
become in sync with them if their hands 
are on a table our hands are on a table 
if they speak more more softly than we 
do we automatically lower our voice to 
match their tone if they speak more 
quickly we increase our Cadence as well 
so if you sit back and just say are they 
mirroring me does it look like they're 
trying to copy me as my kids would say 
right does this person face you with 
their entire body does it look like 
they're sitting the way that you're 
sitting are they matching your vocal 
volume are they matching the speed at 
which you're talking and if you smile do 
they smile right away if you look 
serious do they get serious right are 
they in sync with you so if they're 
mirroring you chances are you're on to 
something they just my feet into isn't 
that fascinating I find the entire 
subject of mirroring so incredibly 
fascinating and now on the other side 
you guys if you like somebody think 
about how you can mirror their their 
body language to subconsciously showed 
them that you like them it may not be 
coming naturally to you but watch the 
person across from you and if you're 
into them or even if you like them if 
you're on a date with a new friend if 
you're at a dinner party start to try to 
play around with mirroring somebody's 
body language that's sitting across from 
you it's super fun I've done it it's 
insanely effective and you'll see how 
great the results will be so notice if 
somebody is mirroring you and mirror 
people that you like okay so 
um clue number two 
are they getting close to you are they 
in your personal space so I consider 
your personal space if you kind of hold 
out your arm in front of you it's 
probably about a foot and a half maybe 
two feet right if a person is getting 
close to you within your space chances 
are they're telling you subconsciously I 
like you I'm attracted to you I want to 
get closer to you if they pull their 
chair closer to you if you're out at a 
cocktail party and you're talking to 
this person and they come up closer to 
hear you and they're in your space those 
are really good signs when 
that they're into you now remember on 
the reciprocal do the same if you're 
interested in somebody practice getting 
a little closer to them then might feel 
comfortable to you because you're going 
to subliminally subconsciously indicate 
to this person I'm in your space because 
I want to get closer to you because I 
like you okay now 
clue number three I love love love this 
clue and I heard this over a decade ago 
and it's so unbelievably true if you 
want to know if someone is into you look 
at where their feet are pointed if their 
feet are pointed squarely at you and 
some people say is their belly button 
pointing at your belly button which 
probably means their feet are also 
pointing at you our feet Don't Lie they 
point to who they're interested in now 
if you're in a circle of people and 
you're interested in somebody but 
there's other attractive people look at 
the person you're attracted to and look 
at where their feet are pointed 
hopefully their feet are going to be 
pointed at you but if they're feet are 
pointed at someone else they might not 
be that into you and now when we talk 
about the reciprocal what do we want to 
make sure that we're doing if we're into 
somebody make sure your feet your navel 
your body is squared off talking to them 
so you are squarely in front of them so 
they know that you are interested so 
remember look for the cues are they 
interested in me okay are they in my 
space are they mirroring me is their 
belly button square with mine are their 
feet pointed right at me right so it's 
super interesting I've been in business 
meetings where I know this trick and 
I'll look at if there's a whole circle 
full of men right and there's one woman 
talking you will see I looked at all of 
their feet all of their feet happen to 
be pointing at me which was really funny 
right because I'm the lone female and I 
was speaking so when you're looking 
around it's hilarious look around in a 
circle when we're standing there 
if somebody's feet are pointed at you it 
is a very good sign so now clue number 
four if they're interested in you and I 
hear so much about this right on date if 
they are interested in you you know what 
they're gonna do they're gonna ask you 
questions and they're going to want to 
get to know you this is a really big one 
right sometimes when we're in our own 
world and we're not that interested in 
somebody and they ask us questions we 
just continue to talk about ourselves 
talk about ourselves talk about 
ourselves right but when we're truly 
interested in somebody we're like wait I 
want to get to know you and I'm going to 
turn the table back on you and say wait 
enough about me tell me about you right 
so if you're sharing a lot of vulnerable 
details with somebody you probably like 
them right and if they're sharing 
vulnerable details with you and then 
asking you more penetrating questions to 
really get to know you know the essence 
of you chances are that they truly do 
like you okay now 
clue number six look at their eye 
contact okay you know when you're 
talking to a stranger if their eye 
contact lingers just a little bit if 
their pupils are dilated if they're 
looking at you and they're kind of 
looking you up and down while they're 
talking to you chances are they think 
you're fine and they are checking you 
out right eye contact is like a 
superpower right the more we look at 
someone the more we want to see them and 
the more we hope that they see us so if 
somebody is really making heavy duty eye 
contact with you and doing all of the 
things that I talked about before this 
chances are they really do like you and 
when you find yourself locked eyeball to 
eyeball with somebody new and you feel 
that little surge of excitement chances 
are you might even emit a little bit of 
oxytocin which is the attack attachment 
hormone so suddenly you're feeling more 
and more attached to this person as they 
gaze at you you gaze at them you'll 
start to realize oh my gosh I think this 
person is really into me and look at 
where their eyes tend to travel it's 
very intimate sometimes when we're 
really interested in somebody notice how 
their eyes will drift all over your face 
their eyes might go to your neck their 
eyes might go to your torso to your 
chest and then come back up to your eyes 
those are very big signs if somebody is 
looking at you with that kind of intent 
that they are in fact ding ding ding 
into your business now 
clue number six okay 
are they attentive to you are they 
paying attention to you right ladies 
when you're with a guy right men are men 
are wired to protect and provide right 
are they putting their arm around you 
are they you know kind of getting close 
to you if you seem like you're cold and 
they're talking to you well they say to 
you you look like you're cold there's a 
giraffe would you like to move over to 
my side and they help you switch around 
maybe he offers you his coat but when 
they look like they are really attentive 
to you if you look at your watch and you 
look back up and they say oh my gosh are 
you missing something do you need to go 
do you need to if your phone goes off 
and you they'll say you know what do you 
need to take that text you need to take 
that call that must be important maybe 
that's your kid calling if somebody 
shows that they are liking you that they 
are caring about you that they're trying 
to protect you 
that person is most likely into you and 
again if you are interested in this 
person you make sure that you are doing 
the same okay be emotionally attentive 
to that person and try and take care of 
them and make the conversation more 
pleasant if their eyes are squinting 
you're like oh my gosh is the sun in 
your eyes do you want to move around a 
little bit is it bothering you here why 
don't you come stand over here closer to 
me I can move right when we show that we 
are concerned about somebody's 
well-being that we're watching their 
body language and they're watching ours 
we definitely like them 
and now Q clue number seven this is a 
really fun one and I've got lots of 
little things around this okay 
if somebody shows that they're what we 
call in the body language World preening 
okay preening meaning 
I'm sort of at attention and I'm trying 
to make myself look attractive okay and 
I want to draw attention to me I'm gonna 
tell you typically 
okay how a man looks when he's preening 
okay so if you're a woman looking for a 
man and you see a guy doing these things 
okay if he's straightening his tie while 
he's talking to you if he's smoothing 
his shirt out if he's tightening his 
belt if he's tucking his shirt and 
showing you that he wants to really look 
good for you right now also if his 
eyebrows goes up just a little bit it's 
like oh I'm shocked and audit you you 
are beautiful typically when our eyes go 
our eyebrows go up we're kind of really 
interested in somebody in a surprising 
way right and now another way men Preen 
a lot is they put their hands on their 
hips right they want to show you that 
they're powerful maybe they've got maybe 
you know it's not quite hands on their 
hips because they don't want to look 
like the cowboy but they've got their 
thumbs and their belt loops right now 
and also if he's kind of puffing his 
chest out a little bit sucking in his 
stomach shoulders are going back you 
know like he's gonna you know I am 
Superman I'm going to fight you I want 
to take care of you these are what we 
call he's trying to be the Macho Man 
right and if you see a man preening in 
this way he's definitely most likely 
into you right and if his legs okay 
again watching the legs if his legs are 
about call it a foot and a half apart 
maybe as wide as his shoulders and he 
squared off and he's looking at you he's 
kind of staking you out as his territory 
right he's kind he's preening he's 
saying I want to talk to you so these 
are typical preening signs that a man 
shows now men that are listening to this 
how do women Preen oh we Preen so 
obviously right what do we do we play 
with our hair we might twirl our hair 
around our fingers we might right run 
our fingers if you could see me right 
now through our hair just kind of 
fluffing it right kind of judging it 
over our shoulders putting it behind our 
ears and hair is our crown and glory and 
if we are touching our hair foofing our 
hair playing with it chances are we're 
like look at me look at my long feminine 
hair 
is it 
pretty I'm trying to ourselves so if 
we're passing our hedorana right again 
we're trying to get you to notice us and 
this is really interesting if a woman or 
really even a man exposes their wrists 
it's supposed to be it's a very 
vulnerable sign that tells us 
subconsciously that somebody is open 
right because it shows from prehistoric 
days the way our limbic brains are wired 
that there's no weapons in our hands 
right my hands are clean they're open if 
we're exposing our wrists it's kind of 
sexy it's kind of vulnerable it's kind 
of open that is what we do when we are 
really interested in somebody right and 
gentlemen or women interested in women 
if you're talking to a woman and she's 
Crossing and uncrossing her legs right 
she's drawing attention to herself look 
at my pretty legs one comes up the other 
goes down and you're watching those legs 
going whoo loving those games right and 
this is really fun like if women kind of 
are playing with their feet and they 
dangle their shoe they're definitely 
interested in you right like shoe comes 
off like oh why is she taking off her 
shoe while she's talking to me or when 
she sits down if she hikes up her skirt 
just 
a little 
attention to herself and her body right 
and and always 
she's 
speaking on Stitch she stress right 
he's probably as well so these are 
really Key signs that someone is into 
you if you see them doing these things 
and remember you can not only be the 
Sherlock Holmes and watch what they do 
to see if they're interested in you but 
you too can practice these body language 
tips you can mirror people you can show 
them that you're attentive to them you 
can ask great questions you can make 
sure that your feet are pointed at them 
have that sexy eye contact let your eyes 
kind of dangle all around their face 
Preen show this person that you're 
drawing attention to yourself smile 
while you're talking to them and I 
guarantee you're going to start to send 
out some mucho sexy charismatic Vibes so 
ladies and gentlemen I hope that you 
have enjoyed this episode make sure you 
save it make sure you download it so 
that you can listen to this anytime time 
you're in a position where you want to 
know if someone is into you or you want 
to demonstrate that you are into them so 
as always follow us on Instagram at 
smartdatingacademy for more tips come to 
our website 
smartdatingacademy.com to sign up for 
our free newsletter or book a 
consultation with us for 30 or 60 
minutes and as always we are here to 
serve you we can't wait to hopefully 
talk to you live face to face until next 
week have Rock and Body Language 
Sherlock Holmes it and let me know send 
me a message if you see somebody doing 
this to you because I can't wait to hear 
about it we'll see you again on the next 
episode next week thanks for listening 
