[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
hi and welcome back to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast I'm so happy that you're 
here to listen to this conversation 
today because this is a conversation 
I've been dying to have since the minute 
I uttered the words or the phrase to 
myself I think I can do a podcast and 
today's guest is 
I'll tell you who she is because I can't 
hold back I'm terrible at keeping these 
kinds of Secrets I'm great at keeping 
other Secrets but it's my friend my 
compadre one of my soul sisters Nancy 
holla who is not only all of that that 
I've just told you but she is also a 
brand coach she is a strategist she is a 
strategist extraordinaire and a 
Storyteller she is an entrepreneur she 
is a former podcaster 
she is newly married you guys I mean 
like five minutes ago as in like 
September 
2025 minutes ago and just an awesome 
lover a lover of Life a mom and she's so 
relatable to so many of us and I'm 
delighted honored and humbled to have 
her here to have this chat with you to 
tell us where she was who she is and who 
she is today so Nancy thank you for 
joining me I'm so excited you're here 
Bella Bella I'm so happy for you I love 
this podcast already I love it for you 
you know I love everything about you and 
Smart dating Academy for good reason you 
have transformed my life but thanks for 
that great introduction it's so it's 
great to be here 
I am so glad you're here and you are in 
Washington state right now is that right 
in your beautiful Magical Home yeah I 
call it the tree house because I live in 
in the middle at the edge of a forest a 
Pine Forest I live in a place that I 
could never have imagined for myself 
um even two years ago but that's where 
true love has taken me so I live in a in 
a small town north of Seattle and it's 
very very pretty mountains and lakes and 
oceans and trees 
ugh and I need to correct you one thing 
you said I got married a minute ago 
September 2020 no it was September 2021. 
oh my God 2021 you were at the wedding 
my friend September 18th we got married 
in Cleveland Ohio 
and weird it not only did I get the year 
wrong yes it really was five minutes ago 
and September 18th of 2021 and Andy and 
I were so delighted to get the 
invitation in the mail and we were like 
yes yes yes we are coming and as Nancy 
and I were getting ready to record I 
said to Nancy I think it is the most fun 
wedding that I have ever been to it was 
filled with love and Magic but I'm gonna 
wait for us to get there chronologically 
for you so you can hear exactly where 
Nancy was but let me let me tell you in 
Nance jump in because I'm gonna tell the 
story I'm gonna set the stage as to how 
we met how we work together and what 
happened so probably I want to say it 
was 2018 maybe where somehow Nancy's 
best friend and podcasting partner 
Sherry Salada and I were connected 
through a common friend and we got on 
the phone together just connecting as 
two people do like oh tell me you tell 
me you what do you do oh great great 
great and so when Sherry was listening 
she's like wow some more dating Academy 
you teach people how to find love 
personal trainers that's amazing and you 
know both my business partner Nancy and 
I are both single I'm not really ready 
for the things that you do but Nancy is 
super adventurous and I think she would 
Dive Right into this so how about we 
test let's test the waters Bella come on 
the podcast let's do your very first 
meeting with Nancy live on the podcast 
you do your thing and then we'll figure 
out where it goes from there so Nance 
you and I met for the first time on 
podcast episode one not knowing where 
this journey was going to take us I know 
Sherry love to do that she loved it to 
Spring guests on me and where I was my 
my story was the focal point it was so 
so adorable and fun and I actually 
really liked it I I love that because I 
am adventurous and I was in a place in 
my life where I was I'd been single for 
a long time right so I had I got 
divorced when my kids were four and 
seven which is about you know 26 years 
ago so at the time that you and I met 
Bella I had been single for for many 
many years and of course like dating 
here and there but not ever with like a 
game plan in mind you know I thought 
like oh true love maybe one day I'll 
meet Keanu Reeves 
that's my fantasy yeah now that I live 
in L.A I'm Mary Keanu because of the 
time I was living in La 
um so I had very sort of pie in the sky 
and I I didn't really I wasn't really 
thinking about it in terms of a game 
plan and then you and I met on the 
podcast and the minute we started 
talking I am like who is this woman and 
what the heck is Smart dating Academy 
and she hails from my hometown of 
Chicago 
everything about you I was like yes like 
Law of Attraction yes 
okay and because I remember we we worked 
it out where I was going to be the test 
subject I I went to Chicago to have have 
the Smart dating Academy experience the 
whole kitten caboodle so I had the 
intake session we had that wonderful 
brunch we talked for several hours at 
the Four Seasons right yes and it was 
very amazing it was like this wonderful 
revealing conversation I felt like 
therapy and then the photo shoot which 
was incredible and so important really 
and that's something that I never I was 
like oh the photo shoot whatever so I'll 
get some good pictures maybe but the 
photo shoot was like key to success oh 
my gosh and just 
change your life and you know what's 
funny is you know pre-covered we used to 
meet everybody in person we had space at 
the Four Seasons and so what Nancy did 
is we sent her like we would for all of 
our you know Boutique coaching clients 
we sent her this dossier of paperwork to 
fill out these questionnaires which made 
her detail what was it like growing up 
what were you like what were your 
parents like what were they like with 
you tell us all about your significant 
relationships your marriage what What 
attracted you to this person what what 
ultimately broke you up what was his 
responsibility what was yours and going 
through this constellation of data 
points together then really what I call 
embarking on this new contract for what 
we call your high GHQ Guy high in good 
husband qualities and so 
um and so we took Nancy through we took 
you through this exercise of the people 
in your life that make you happiest 
right your elevator people and really 
focused on the qualities that elevate 
you in relationships and clarify that 
and then what are their Flags in dating 
right 
legs you know what honestly what I would 
say about it is it was a profound shift 
in Consciousness for me and you know 
anybody who's embarking on any kind of 
self-help in any area 
knows that shifting your Consciousness 
is part of the puzzle right so expanding 
your awareness being present with who 
you are your needs your wants your 
desires your Hang-Ups your triggers all 
that stuff and really being clear about 
the person you are and what you really 
want and so I've had a million 
conversations in my life with 
girlfriends about guys are you kidding 
me it's like the number one thing that 
we all talked about for many years 
especially when we were younger but I 
never had a conversation like the one 
that we had at the Four Seasons because 
it was strategic there was a there was a 
like like I said before a game plan 
there was a an outcome an end game in 
mind we I wanted to find true love and 
honestly I would tell you that just 
saying that making that declaration with 
you was super elevating as you say super 
liberating you know you don't have to 
hide behind it you don't have to act 
like oh well whatever maybe maybe not 
maybe it's not for me 
I just heard somebody say this I was in 
a Master Class A couple of uh days ago 
and one of the women said you know what 
I'd like to find somebody but you know 
you know whatever so probably not going 
to happen or and just Shrugged it off 
like it was nothing and I remember that 
I used to do that I saw her doing it I 
thought wow I used to do the same thing 
and it's a defense mechanism right 
because you're worried that you're not 
going to find it so you act like it's no 
big deal and and listen for some people 
maybe it's not but I would imagine that 
all the people tuning into this podcast 
have like an interest in this and I 
think it's amazing to be with somebody 
that you really truly love who loves you 
back 
and I think it's a an incredible life 
experience and I'm super glad you know 
like Super Glide isn't really cover it I 
am enormously grateful profoundly 
grateful that it has happened for me but 
it was it was there in that conversation 
and it was you know yes identifying the 
qualities the good husband qualities 
identifying the things I really want 
beyond funny you know tall tall because 
I'm six feet tall tall gotta be tall you 
know this that all those sort of 
superficial things 
um and really digging deep into well you 
know my my first husband was those 
things that didn't work out let's talk 
about why 
and so I started really exp my 
Consciousness was waking up but then 
those red flags 
I'm going to tell you what I would when 
I after meeting you I would go on dates 
and even I talked about the dates and I 
would think about the red flags this one 
time I took a little notebook with me 
and I and I and I put it in my purse and 
when I excuse myself to the ladies room 
I would like write down little notes 
because I didn't want to forget because 
I knew that I was going to have a 
follow-up with you and you know red 
flags are things that in the past what I 
realized I used to completely brush them 
aside 
I'd be like yeah oh he's only talking 
about himself he's not asking me any 
questions but gosh you know whatever 
maybe he's nervous you know oh that's 
okay maybe you know and you just kind of 
do that defensive sort of Playbook where 
you're trying to make room for this guy 
in your life even though you've only 
known him for 14 minutes and he's you 
know really ex there's he's covered in 
red flags but you're like oh well I can 
fix that you know I can work on that so 
I stopped doing that I really did I 
stopped I stopped ignoring the things 
that really bugged me and I started 
looking for things that I told you I 
wanted in those conversations like I 
told you I wanted somebody 
who's really interested in me and 
listened and asked questions and gave 
of himself you know real information not 
superficial stuff like a good a good 
talk the kind of talk I have with people 
that are important to me and I started 
noticing when that wasn't happening and 
I'm noticing when it did 
so it was it's like I think that you 
need to be armed with that information 
to date with a goal in mind you can't 
just go out there and be like oh well 
whatever will be will be 
because that's what I did for 20 years 
100 and I think that what so many of us 
do it's kind of the same thing over and 
over again when you're not armed with a 
new plan a new strategy it's like you 
think oh I know what a narcissist is 
I've read about some red flags and I'm 
ready to date and then you go out there 
and yet what we end up doing as human 
beings is we end up doing what's 
comfortable for US versus what's 
actually right so we find ourselves like 
oh I know that's right 
but I'm going to keep doing this instead 
because it's comfy it's kind of like if 
I want to lose 20 pounds I know I 
shouldn't shove the chocolate cake in my 
mouth but at a certain point I just do 
because it makes me feel good right it's 
comfort and so we date kind of like we 
eat the chocolate cake sometimes like it 
makes us it's like an instant hit and 
sometimes when people come in and they 
remind us of x's and Nancy I don't know 
I think you've probably like most people 
had these experiences where someone 
comes in and it's fast and it's Furious 
and they say all of the things and it's 
intoxicating and suddenly you feel like 
oh my God this is it and then three or 
four months later you're like oh my God 
this is not it and the red flags start 
to reveal themselves and you're like oh 
crap maybe I jumped into that too fast 
and maybe I swept those things under the 
rug but I'm sure that this resonates 
with you you dear listener as well as 
you Nancy as well as with me because I 
had my own dating patterns as well yeah 
yeah I mean you're right when you say 
the Mind seeks out the familiar right 
that's why it's so hard to change a 
habit like if you're a person who gets 
out of bed every day at eight and you 
really want to be the kind of person 
that gets up at six and gets a workout 
in it's not so much that you're 
physically unable to do it or or that 
you're that you really don't have no 
willpower it's that your mind seeks out 
familiar patterns so that's why changing 
habits is hard it is and you have to 
really set yourself up for success or 
else you'll make a million New Year's 
resolutions for example and then they 
all fall to the Wayside because none of 
that stuff is familiar you fall into Old 
patterns and the thing about dating 
other people is that 
you know once I see somebody if I'm 
sitting next to somebody who seems 
familiar to me laughs a lot talks a lot 
bombastic personality it's like oh my 
God we should get married you know 
within within an hour which has happened 
to me 
um and it's but all that really is is 
narcissism you know and I learned that 
is that that there what I'm looking for 
is I don't believe you know in order for 
me to feel validated by love it's got to 
be a big huge tidal wave coming at me 
and for that person who's the tidal wave 
that's a narcissist in action right 
because they need to be Central to you 
immediately so I didn't know any of that 
stuff I mean like listen who told me 
that when I was 18 nobody nobody nobody 
nobody tells you a damn thing when 
you're starting to date and it's it's 
and it's a rocky sort of landscape to 
try to navigate 
so right before I met the man after I 
after I met you and we started we 
started doing some of the dating I 
started doing you know dating in La 
which is not that easy for a woman in 
her 50s 
um and but I did it go on a couple of 
dates and nothing nothing stuck and then 
I moved to Seattle and right when I 
moved to Seattle I went home to 
Cleveland to see my family that's where 
I'm from and I ran into an old flame 
from high school oh my God and and this 
was like the light but like the thunder 
clouds I I it was like oh my god this is 
my love story This Is My Love Story how 
poetic I'm gonna write a novel on this 
here's the guy who I loved since I was 
in fourth grade and and I loved him all 
through high school he never looked at 
me twice he dated all my friends he was 
like the Big Man on Campus the football 
player the popular guy hilarious and and 
he never really I never really existed 
for him right and so here we are I mean 
I was 56 or same age in our 50s we meet 
up in our old Hometown purely 
happenstance and Sparks a big romance 
and you know he was all those things he 
was the same things that attracted me 
about my first husband it's like that 
that you know Larger than Life almost 
personality 
and 
um I fizzled out within you know three 
months because it was completely 
unsustainable and and none of and there 
were red flags I mean literally there 
are red flags popping up all over the 
place that I was adding away I was like 
ignore ignore ignore ignore ignore but 
then every once in a while I would get 
my Smart dating Academy handbook out you 
know that that folder that you give us 
and I would read my good husband 
qualities I would read my red flag list 
and I'm like oh brother I think I'm in 
deep water here so I realized you know I 
got to start edging out of this 
relationship and so I did I put the 
pause button on it and I was sitting on 
my couch one day and I I put my my toe 
back out into the dating water right 
went on hinge which is a dating app that 
I love and went on Match and won a 
couple others and I started you know 
okay slowly going on a couple more dates 
in Seattle 
and one day I had a date it was a 
Saturday I had a date schedule with a 
man for six o'clock drinks right down my 
street where I lived and I get a text 
message from the old flame out of the 
blue 
and he and it's like hey just checking 
in how are you and I thought oh you know 
what I'm gonna respond because I'm gonna 
be a kind good-hearted oh hi I'm fine 
how are you and then I get this long 
text message back about as long as 
almost as long as my arm 
so he had to seat up waiting because I 
know how slow he types and it's all 
about how amazing he's doing and who 
he's dating now and how he's also 
hanging out with all my old girlfriends 
from high school life couldn't be better 
and you know and so in other words 
designed to hurt me which it did and I 
felt like someone punched me in the 
stomach so I sat down on the couch and I 
had this moment Bella 
that it's like this was to me the big 
Turning Point 
I said to myself if you want a different 
love story you have to look for a 
different kind of man 
and that and and that day one hour from 
that moment I had this date down the 
street and I did not want to go because 
I was not happy but I'm like no you're 
going you're going to do the Bella 
Gandhi you're going to go into the 
bathroom you're going to put your Berry 
lip on you're gonna fluff your hair out 
you're gonna put your dating uniform 
right at a thing that I wore for every 
single first date it was like of course 
it works it's black it's this it's that 
you know that's my dating uniform threw 
it on and I went down the street 
and they're sitting there was David 
Bruce 
the man who is now my husband my beloved 
and he is everything that those other 
guys are not and I mean that really like 
you know lovely quiet introspective 
attentive loving kind giving you know 
interested 
um funny but like in a in a quiet funny 
way and and you know it was it's to me 
that like that that is the indication of 
a completely changed Consciousness and 
then an immediate manifestation like it 
can't it can't get faster than that it 
was 60 minutes 
that I found him 
and one one day likes another and here's 
the thing too there was never a moment 
when I was left wondering oh my God is 
he gonna call me is he gonna did he have 
a fun I don't know you know is he gonna 
because literally you know that was 
great I'd love to see you again that was 
a Saturday night Monday he came down 
again and this is a two-hour drive from 
Bellingham where where he lived down to 
Seattle 
you know oysters on Monday again right 
down the street from me and then then a 
date that you know two days later and 
then he's going out of town but right 
when he comes back and can we go to this 
thing and can we go whale watching and 
so there was never a moment where I felt 
overwhelmed because it was nicely paced 
and super mellow no love bombing no love 
bombing at all but just a steady slow 
and steady slow and steady wins the race 
my dad used to say and just a slow and 
steady like always the interest always 
the attentiveness no love bombing no 
weirdness 
um no sex 
because because of your instruction 
Bella Gandhi say that again in case in 
case you were driving and you didn't 
hear that no sex and that's and that's a 
that's a key because also I think that I 
think that what sometimes we miss as 
women is that guys aren't always ready 
for that either right away you know it's 
not like every man is so voraciously 
sexual at every moment of the day like 
and I think that for some guys that can 
be overwhelming too too yes it can be 
scary intimacy can be a lot you know it 
is a lot and it and it has to be timed 
correctly 
so I remember you gave me this image or 
she might be with Sherry when we were 
talking because we talked about you 
endlessly back in the day when we first 
met you of like you're like Doris I'm 
like Doris Day with my little kitten 
heels and my lipstick and my purse and I 
I give them a nice little uh good good 
night at the door and I go into my 
apartment like it's done you know I'm 
not jumping into bed with anybody and 
and that's why one of the strategies to 
see a couple people at the same time and 
sleep with no one and wait until you're 
in a monogamous committed relationship 
so I took that very literally and I 
actually said to David 
um I don't want us to make love until 
we're in love so for me that was a huge 
leap of faith to be able to be brave 
enough to say those words 
because you know in my my inner critic 
was like oh my God what if he's thinking 
I've never fallen in love with you you 
know what are you talking about girl but 
I said it anyway because I was like I'm 
gonna say my truth and this man is worth 
it and this relationship is worth it so 
I mean all those little moments Bella 
were really fueled by the confidence and 
Clarity I gained working with you and 
shifting that Consciousness you know 
this isn't a free-for-all okay this is 
my life my love life is my life is part 
of a big part of my life this isn't a 
game you know this isn't uh oh well 
whatever will be will be no I don't know 
part of my life that way I don't 
approach my business that way I didn't 
approach raising my children that way I 
don't approach my life as if it's a 
catch-all whatever happens I have goals 
and I have maps to get those goals right 
I have I have a purpose and so I really 
woke up to that and I was like you know 
what my love life is important I want to 
find true love I want to get married to 
somebody I deeply love who deeply loves 
me I want to grow old with this person 
that's what I want 
and you know honestly it's the clarity 
that that that illuminated the path for 
me and here I am 
married yay and to such a lovely guy and 
here's as you were talking it brought me 
back to so many great moments from the 
podcast and our work together the 
majority of it was remote and but there 
was this one 
time where we on a lark we wanted to 
record a couple of different episodes 
and I flew to LA and we met at Sherry's 
house and we were recording in her back 
recording room behind her kitchen and I 
remember the three of us were all miked 
up and and we were having this 
conversation and I don't know if you 
remember this moment but because it's 
come true for you is I remember saying 
the kind of man that I imagine you with 
Nance is he's gonna be this guy you're 
gonna be up on stage and you're gonna be 
wearing sequins and you're going to have 
a mic in your hands and you're going to 
be talking about something and because 
this is your event and you look gorgeous 
and the man that you're with is going to 
be in a tuxedo in the back of the room 
and he's going to Elbow the guy next to 
him and say look who I got can you 
believe that 
and it was this moment and I think we 
were all teary at that moment and like 
voice is quivering and I remember 
being at your wedding and looking at 
that guy wearing a tuxedo up in the 
front talking about you into the 
microphone and how he was the luckiest 
guy in the world I'm like this came 
full circle here he is and she's up 
there it may not be sequins but it's in 
this gorgeous white wedding dress and it 
was just it was this full circle moment 
like you deserved that guy we could see 
that that was the guy that you were 
going to be with and here he is 
September 18th of 2021 saying this is 
the best moment of my life the best 
decision of my life the best woman of my 
life like it was just amazing and I 
couldn't be happier for you and to have 
witnessed that truly after we manifested 
that on the podcast we did we manifested 
it together girl I'm telling you I mean 
and he is like that he is like this 
tireless supporter this True Believer in 
in me in our love and our future I mean 
it's a beautifully 
secure lovely feeling and you know I I 
honestly I would I wouldn't have got 
there on my own I wasn't I wasn't clear 
about what I really wanted and I wasn't 
brave enough to say what I wanted 
So speaking of that which brings me to a 
funny memory because being with you is 
like taking this beautiful walk down 
memory lane over the last few years say 
gosh how did we get here but if I 
remember right when we first started 
online dating 
we were talking about okay like Nancy 
says she's tall and she's gorgeous and 
she's six feet tall and I'm envious 
every day I would love to be six feet 
tall right but it's like okay what do I 
do and in the beginning I remember you 
saying you know what this is my thing 
everybody's got a thing and he has to be 
at least six foot one Bella and that and 
we would go through your inbox together 
and we're on Match and I'm logged in as 
Nance and Nance is logged in as Nance 
and she's in LA and I'm here in Chicago 
and I was like oh my God look at this 
guy and we were looking at men that had 
emailed her she's like no he's six feet 
let's move on I'm like but but look at 
look at this message and look at nope 
he's done and so now tell us what 
happened and how David Bruce made it 
through those filters Nancy holla you 
know okay that's funny and you are a 
hundred percent right and all I can do 
to make myself feel okay about that is 
the outcome was great but I probably 
passed passed away past you know by a 
lot of great guys because that's a silly 
thing I mean you know listen we all do 
have something but we all and that was 
my thing but it was but it wasn't my 
thing like it turns out it wasn't it's 
not my thing at all it turns out that 
that was a childhood thing that I never 
really challenged or explored because I 
always felt awkward being the tallest 
girl I was 5 11 in fourth grade I was 
taller than the football coach in fourth 
grade and you know like we all have some 
trauma stuff from childhood and that's 
that was mine you know I felt like 
awkward about my physicality and so I 
needed a guy to be like enormously tall 
so I could feel like oh bundled up in 
his arm a little yeah yeah I mean the 
whole thing is I think of it now and I 
laugh but that was real for me then well 
so David on his on his hinge app 
um he listed himself as six feet tall 
which you know I will lovingly say he is 
not but 
he's like well he thinks he is and I'm 
like I assure you you're not but that's 
okay because I love you and it's fine 
and guys always think they're taller 
than they are okay 
um and so he he listed his height at six 
feet tall but his pictures were in my 
opinion so Charming because they they 
were so um low low res and low like 
funny you know and not I mean my 
pictures were the Bella Gandhi 
professional you know photo Suite of one 
was this and you know different outfits 
and Berry lip and fluffy hair and oh I'm 
just leaning over this bar having a 
whiskey what oh you caught me I caught 
me in my gorgeous chambray shirt and my 
perfect jeans that are hugging my hips 
just when it was 105 degrees outside 
so hot 
um but his photos were you know not that 
um but it was but he was funny and he 
was like there wasn't here's what I 
liked it was minimal it wasn't like he 
was trying to explode on the page like 
oh my God there's everything about me 
and I'm so funny and quippy and clever 
and there was something about him and I 
liked his I liked his expression and I 
liked his I liked his smile and I like 
just liked him goodbye and then Sherry 
came for a visit 
to Seattle and we were sitting on my 
couch and I had um I think that I'd 
already been on one date with them and 
and she looked at his profile and she's 
like oh my God he's so hunky and I'm 
like is he and you know like when one of 
your girlfriends thinks that your your 
guy is cute you're like oh okay okay let 
me lean into that and then I and then I 
mentioned that um he's a he was a former 
professional hockey player and you know 
Sherry's big into sports she's you know 
a very proud alumni of uh University of 
Iowa go Hawks and she loves all that Big 
Ten stuff and she loves all the sports 
stuff and I'm not that way you know just 
because it's not my interest but so 
she's like oh my God he is this hunky 
Canadian former professional hockey 
player and so and I'm like oh my God he 
is so cute right right right look at him 
and I'll tell you something our first 
date our very first day we were sitting 
at a at the at the bar having a drink 
and um and I didn't know how tall he was 
because he was seated and I I signed in 
right away so he didn't get a chance to 
stand up so I didn't know and you know 
I'm like oh brother I hope he's you know 
like I hope this works out as I'm 
drinking my Chardonnay nursing my 
Chardonnay then I find out because we're 
saying where do you live where do you 
live I was new to Seattle so I thought 
Bellingham was a neighborhood in Seattle 
because Seattle has a lot of 
neighborhoods like Queen Anne Fremont 
you know they all have names 
so I said well how long did it take you 
to get here you know two hours 
two hours hours two hour drive one way 
and so then I thought oh my God here it 
is seven o'clock on a Saturday night 
this guy is gonna he's gonna drive four 
hours round trip I should at least say 
so I broke my rule because my jading 
rule was one drink and then go and then 
see if there's a second date 
but so so I said would you like to have 
something to eat and he said I would 
love to take you to dinner 
so I said okay listen there's a really 
cute French Bistro right around the 
corner let's go there so we got up and I 
noticed that he was shorter than I was 
and I was like okay all right Nancy just 
chill out so so far this guy is nice and 
you just said to yourself you need to 
look for a different kind of man you 
just said those words two hours ago on 
your couch in tears 
so just chill out and have the date so 
we go to the French Bistro we're sitting 
across from each other and we proceed to 
have this lovely 
you know as as romantic as the dinner 
can be with two people who just met but 
there was definitely a connection there 
was nothing you know sexual or anything 
it was just sweet and lovely and cute 
and funny and then we're walking to the 
car because he drove us there around the 
corner so we so I he was driving me back 
to my car and I noticed again oh my he's 
really he is shorter than I am and I 
thought well you have a decision to make 
like here's a really nice guy who 
clearly wants to see you again what are 
you gonna do Nancy what are you gonna do 
are you gonna really not date somebody 
because of two inches of height 
and so I just decided to ignore it and 
now it's so hilarious to me that I would 
ever have thought that way like that I 
would pass up 
this kind of love for something so 
superficial and my friends in Chicago 
Betsy and Scott and and Scott's a little 
bit shorter than Betsy and and they've 
been married forever happily married for 
like 25 30 years and bestie's like oh 
girl like look at Scott 
look at Scott and we I met them I love 
Scott like look at him like you think 
that I would pass this up for for you 
know for two inches of height 
and I thought to myself you're 
absolutely right so it's good you know 
there's we all have a hang up probably 
not we all but many people do we all do 
as a dating coach I can say what you're 
saying okay correct we all have a hang 
up we all have a hang up but you know 
what I would say I would invite everyone 
to explore it you know some things are 
deal breakers you know like maybe you 
don't want to date somebody who smokes 
cigarettes like okay some things might 
be deal breakers but look explore your 
hand explore it and really ask yourself 
why and ask yourself where it comes from 
and for me it comes from some fourth 
grade playground insult you know what I 
mean that stuck with me like like a 
cloud and Shake It Off man because I 
think a lot of Hang-Ups are about about 
that are about the unresolved stuff from 
from childhood or unresolved stuff from 
former relationships and if you explore 
it and really look honestly at it 
and maybe look Beyond it that's all I'm 
going to say not everybody can do it but 
if you can I think you'll be surprised 
because guess what happens your dating 
pool opens up I mean guess what if I'm 
if I'm gonna say okay well I'm only 
dating guys who are six three 
uh who are in their late 50s who are 
this that you know what I mean like all 
of a sudden your dating pool shrinks 
tremendously tremendously tremendously 
and I think a conversation you and I had 
because I love numbers and stats is that 
only 12 of the U.S male population is 
over six feet tall right and so and I'm 
sure I didn't Levy that on you right 
away because that would usually make 
most people cry especially when they're 
when they're hideous and they're like he 
must be over six feet tall and I'm 
thinking okay if you put a hundred guys 
in a room even 100 age-appropriate men 
so let's say at that time 50 to 60 years 
old and if I said okay there now I need 
everybody over that's under six feet 
tall to leave the room that would mean 
close your eyes and imagine 88 of those 
guys would depart the room and we would 
be left with 12 guys just 8 based on one 
parameter and that's height and then 
when you lump in well I'd really like 
him to at least have a bachelor's degree 
or a master's degree because I have a 
master's degree right 17 of Americans 
have a master's degree 34 have an 
undergraduate degree so it's like how we 
slice and dice and I'm not saying this 
to demotivate people but it's really to 
like Nancy's saying think about for real 
real real what your deal breakers or 
your deal makers are and then think 
about that because with every inch that 
you open up your parameters on height 
with every year that you open up with 
age on both ends older younger with 
every Mile in your ZIP code that you 
widen you may just let in the love of 
your life and you don't know and Nancy's 
is not the only story where oh my gosh 
he wasn't in my parameters or he said he 
was 60 but maybe he was six feet tall in 
a really big hair day whatever that was 
right but it's like I've I've had 
clients that have told me my age limit 
was set to 60 right and then one day I 
went to 61 and I got that first last 
message in my inbox and that was the 
love of her life right and so really 
thinking about those things right I you 
know how important and you can probably 
answer this question now better than 
anybody I ask it rhetorically how 
important is blank to long-term 
happiness how important is height to 
long-term happiness it's like okay how 
right and you and what I love and this 
this is a part of the story Nance I 
didn't even know I didn't know and I saw 
you at your wedding I didn't know David 
was shorter than you I thought you were 
the same height and so she's laughing if 
you could see this video right now and I 
thought and I've told this story since 
I've been at the wedding and they're the 
same height and now she's telling me and 
you you're hearing it first that he's 
actually a little bit shorter and she's 
okay with it and this is the most 
Soulful easy elevator yummy love that 
she's ever had in her life and isn't 
that amazing yeah well you know yeah I I 
love what you just said about you know 
you you you look at all your parameters 
and if you can open each one up a little 
bit it's like opening up the floodgates 
right like so if you're saying I'll only 
date somebody within 20 miles 
well of where I live right now well 
guess what Bellingham is 90 miles from 
Seattle 
I didn't have that as a parameter set I 
I think unthinkingly I just didn't have 
it if I had I mean God you know and now 
I live here I was like okay I'm I'm a 
girl who's lived in Chicago La Seattle I 
thought I was a big city person forever 
I live in a little village a cute it's 
adorable I love it but I mean what I 
love about it is that I am living here 
with David I would live anywhere I said 
in my wedding vows you did I would love 
anywhere to be with you and that is the 
absolute truth and he feels the same way 
if I said Okay I want to move back to 
Chicago he would be on it in a heartbeat 
it doesn't matter as long as we're 
together but things like you know you 
know height or you know you know do you 
know what deal breaker should be deal 
breaker should be unkindness yes cruelty 
um you know intolerance 
right withholding affection like those 
are deal breakers deal breakers aren't 
height or degrees or you know bank 
accounts I mean you can't yeah in the 
Quest for true love you just have to do 
a little bit more magical thinking I 
think a little bit more you know yummy 
like like bring bring me the yummy and 
and whatever package that person comes 
in uh you know I'm gonna be open up 
enough to explore that 
you know that good feeling 
and this story just came to my mind from 
your wedding and to what exactly what 
Nancy says these are the deal breakers 
you should have people that are 
inconsistent unreliable don't care about 
you or your life Nancy's son Alex who's 
this hunky lovely military well-spoken 
all that is good first time I laid my 
eyes on the kid and I'd heard he was 
amazing and then he got up and gave a 
speech at his mom's wedding that brought 
everybody to tears into their knees and 
he tells this story about you know I'm 
this big military guy and I was out and 
I'm probably telling the story 
incorrectly so tell me and and Alex was 
out somewhere and he had been skiing or 
snowshoeing and he gets back and he 
realizes that he lost his car keys and 
it could be anywhere in this vastly 
snowy terrain that he was in so he's 
like like every good military Soldier I 
did what any of them would do I called 
my mom 
yeah exactly I called my mom as a 28 
year old naval officer I did what you 
know I did what anyone I called my mom 
that was so funny I died laughing and 
the story and what he did was talk about 
this amazing man that his mom was with 
and David jumps in the car brings an 
extra set of keys he drives five hours 
in a snowstorm five hours in a snowstorm 
one way because because Alex was in 
Whistler which is in Canada 
so we had to go across the border he had 
to first go to Anacortes to get Alex's 
spare spare keys which is an hour drive 
and then he had to drive up Whistler 
Mountain in a terrible snowstorm 
and never but the thing here's the thing 
I'm telling it like that he wouldn't 
tell it like that he thinks it's funny 
he would he didn't even blink an eye 
he's like and I said I'll do it and he 
goes no you're not doing it I'm gonna do 
it because I was I was getting over a 
cold he goes you're staying here stay on 
the couch I'm gonna do it drives up to 
Whistler Mountain meets Alex at a place 
hands him the keys 
and Alex and then and then stays 
overnight at his sister's house and then 
drives back and Alex texted me he goes 
that guy is a chief he's a good guy and 
I said I know and we were just dating he 
hadn't even met Alex yet 
I like I I like I have Goosebumps your 
kids right who would do that you know I 
opened a single mother for most of my 
kids lives right divorce when they were 
four and seven and and you know nobody 
ever lived with us I was a single mom I 
dated yes but you know kept that sort of 
out of the out of the radar of the kids 
until if I you know I was waiting to 
meet someone special and I never did 
when they were younger 
so you know as a single mother who's 
sort of shouldered it all on her own 
right for so many years to have somebody 
step in and immediately take some of the 
weight right like take some of the 
responsibility because out of love for 
me he didn't even know Alex yet now Ian 
Alex are super close he and my daughter 
Olivia are very close there's so much 
love and there's so much you know back 
and forth just between them and but in 
the early days he didn't know the kids 
but he was there like I I can't even 
articulate what that was like for me and 
how um totally life-changing that was oh 
my God I'm gonna cry because it felt 
like it was a long time just me 
you know and and then all of a sudden I 
had a partner and we weren't even 
engaged yet you know he was just my 
boyfriend and all of a sudden they have 
a partner who's gonna drive up a 
mountain to help my kid 
I mean oh my God I get I get emotional 
with that story Alex tells a story in 
such a funny way and such a sweet and 
daring way but for me it was you know it 
was it was a pretty big moment it's the 
real deal and so much so that your 
wedding was in September and we're now 
in February by the time you're listening 
to this and the story just it's like I'm 
looking at Nancy and having this 
conversation and the neurons started 
firing we didn't plan to tell the story 
but this is the story of this is you 
know I always say we focus so much on 
these quantitative things right like 
what does he do what how much money does 
he make does he make more than me what 
does he look like how tall is he what's 
his education and yet you can see here 
that there's something you can't teach 
character 
right and here's this man that hasn't 
even met your kids and was like I'm 
gonna drive five hours and I'm gonna 
bring him this key because that's who I 
am you didn't have to say hey could you 
go he's like you lay in bed and heal 
I've got this and he didn't even think 
probably for two seconds about it 
because that is who he is and this is 
what a true partnership feels like and 
if you're listening to this and you 
think oh my gosh I can't even believe it 
this sounds like a fairy tale this is 
what this is what exists and this is 
what can exist for you when you start to 
prioritize different things in your 
relationships and you don't ignore the 
red flags and you look for the green 
flags and you look for somebody who 
loves you for you and will love all of 
the pieces of your life because they are 
yours David didn't know Alex David 
probably had seen a photo of Alex and 
jumps in the car and says Alex is your 
son and therefore he's important to me 
so I'm gonna go bail him out of this 
right and that is like oh my God that is 
the kind of love like the story that I 
told you earlier I imagine someone who's 
going to be like look who I got elbowing 
the guy in the tuxedo and she's up on 
the stage wearing sequins and then this 
is what that person can do and will do 
for you and you don't even have to ask 
that person yeah 
yes yes it is it is there is a fairy 
tale equality to it I mean honestly 
that's one of the reasons I decided to 
wear a big poofy wedding dress on my 
wedding I was gonna wear you know like a 
svelt little red carpet sequence number 
but the closer we got to the wedding day 
I was just so filled up with this this 
like wow you know this is really 
happening I'm really getting married you 
know at my at my lifelong friends home 
in Cleveland Heights beautiful backyard 
wedding 50 of the most important people 
in the world to me 
and this guy who is like it is is so 
easy to love him and it's so easy for 
him to love me it Feels So effortless I 
didn't know it could be like that so I 
decided to lean fully into bride mode I 
got a big old poofy cupcake of a dress 
and I had the most fun I felt like a 
princess I did and I still feel that way 
I mean honestly I look back at the 
wedding and think there was a reason it 
was so fun and playful and joyful and 
dance filled you know and everybody and 
hollering because it was just there was 
so much joy you know and everybody was 
so I could feel everyone's happiness for 
us I could feel it you know it's no 
small thing to find true love in the 
middle of your life in your mid 50s it's 
I think that's a big deal honestly it's 
a huge deal I do I think that you know 
you get to a certain point you've been 
single for a long time and you're almost 
conditioned to think it's not gonna 
happen to me I know for sure that's what 
I felt 
and so to find true love at that stage 
in life feels like we gotta celebrate 
this 
we gotta celebrate this man so that's 
that's what the wedding felt like to me 
and marriage at this point how does it 
feel oh my god well marriage feels like 
um 
I'll tell you if well here I'll tell you 
something it feels like the safest place 
I've ever been in my life oh it's like I 
feel like I've never been safer in my 
life not as a child not as a young adult 
I've never been safer I feel zero 
anxiety about anything 
really I can honestly say that I don't 
feel I don't feel anxious I don't feel 
worried you know I I'm you know I'm 
always going to be a little bit 
concerned for the kids you know make 
sure everybody's safe drive safely and 
this and that but I'm not anxious and 
I'm not I'm not you know wondering when 
the other shoe is going to drop that 
feeling of I don't know what the future 
holds because I do know what the future 
holds it holds this beautiful happiness 
and this loving 
partnership in this marriage and I'll 
tell you that 
um this year in my business I decided to 
take 
my business in a new directions I 
decided to offer more things online 
brand therapy lab a podcast lab online 
courses in addition to the one-on-one 
work I do I invested money into my 
business I built a new website I I 
started new things and and here's why 
because I felt so grounded and secure 
like I just feel like there's nothing we 
can't do together he and I you know and 
now he's my business manager he takes 
care of invoicing we can talk about 
business together and I just don't feel 
like I'm going it alone on every single 
front I feel so safe and alone you know 
I'm like hell like I feel held 
I mean and even if there's a we spat 
like I was mad at him this morning 
because I thought he was being grumpy 
about something and I'm not really 
grumpy I'm trying to be quiet because 
you're still sleeping he gets up really 
early and he he makes me coffee every 
morning and he puts it in a metal carafe 
and he puts it on my bedside table so 
that I come with a cut and empty cup so 
that the minute I wake up it's a thermal 
carafe so if he makes it at six o'clock 
and I wake up at eight it's still piping 
hot and Super Fresh 
and I'm like you know we were talking 
for a minute I'm like I think you were 
grumpy and then you know he's like I'm 
sorry if I seem grumpy honey I I was 
just trying to be quiet and then I 
thought to myself in the okay everybody 
said and I said you know baby forget it 
you're not grown thank you for the 
coffee I'll see you today at five and I 
love you very much like those small 
things are just it's so easy to brush 
away because the bigger picture is so 
solid that's that's the thing I think 
like when you're in a contentious 
relationship all the little stuff all 
that just gets like yes 
overwhelming because you're mad about a 
lot of things you're mad about big 
things you're mad that you don't feel 
seen and heard and appreciated so the 
small things like you were you were 
making noise this morning when I was 
trying to sleep that seems big that 
seems indicative of you don't care about 
my feelings right yes take on these big 
monstrous meaning like oh well the way 
you spoke to me means you don't respect 
me you know and it's not like nothing 
can be small and guess what when you're 
living with somebody for year after year 
after year 
you're gonna say the wrong thing 
sometimes you're gonna do the wrong 
thing you're gonna get into each other's 
nerves but when you're truly safe and 
rounded you can brush that nonsense 
aside right you can brush it aside 
because you know that there is so much 
love that there's so much affection that 
there's so much true loyalty that you 
don't have to worry about the small 
stuff that's just like human 
the dust of human life you can sweep it 
away 
I think that is the greatest thing that 
is my my favorite thing is that 
regardless we're fine we're great we're 
more than fine we're happy 
and I just full body Goosebumps when you 
said I've never felt safer in my entire 
life from childhood until now and safety 
is so underrated and feeling secure 
right and like you said kindness when 
you're with the right person I mean I'll 
Andy and I'll be married 25 years this 
may and we probably have little 
arguments I don't know how many times a 
week a lot right we're raising two 
teenagers together we've been together 
for basically our entire lives we were 
like children when we got married but 
it's okay conflict is okay with the 
right person you navigate through the 
conflict and because you're not worried 
you don't see me as important as another 
paper cut that's ultimately gonna you 
know hit as deep as that Stab Wound it's 
like no I know that you're good and I'm 
good and we're good so this is just like 
a little breeze of wind okay and let's 
move on and then and being able to 
navigate conflict even when it could be 
more serious conflict which is fine if 
you put any two human beings together 
for a long enough amount of time there 
will be conflict or somebody is giving 
in but it's about how you agree to 
navigate through that conflict right you 
put boundaries around what you can say 
and what you can't say and one of our 
rules is when you have conflict can this 
conflict get our relationship to a 
better place and if so then it was 
totally worth it you look at it as a 
stair step up like yes we're going to 
have friction that's part of being human 
and part of being in a partnership but 
can we make us better and take the next 
step forward I love that Bella that's 
really smart that's really smart because 
and you know what here's I love that for 
you too as an extension even of your 
brand because after you find true love 
you got you want to keep true love you 
know you want to keep it you want to 
sustain it you don't want to throw it 
away and you know I love the idea of 
having boundaries about and and having a 
goal of you know we're uh we're together 
and I remember I remember saying to him 
once you know the only thing that 
matters really is that you and I are 
good because when we're good 
everything's good exactly and you know 
because there's nothing we can't handle 
because we're a team we love each other 
we're two very very capable adults who 
dig each other so much and we love our 
kids we love our friends and family so 
it's almost we're good everything's good 
when we fall apart all that other stuff 
falls apart too so it's like tending to 
that and but also it's it's it's easy 
because it's great you know it's like I 
really do love this guy so much and he's 
really madly in love with me too and I 
know it so nothing that happens is a 
deal breaker now no it's easily so it's 
it's it's it's it's good and but here's 
the thing 
I have that Foundation because of the 
work I did with you again I come back to 
that shift in Consciousness that real 
awareness and Awakening of what's 
important to me and what kind of 
relationship do I ultimately not want 
not like how tall is he and how cute is 
he what is the relationship I want what 
is the feeling I want every day and that 
is the start of it when you're dating so 
everybody who's listening who's dating 
think about yourself you know five years 
from now married to one of these people 
what what do you want to feel like 
right what do you want to feel like when 
you wake up what do you want to feel 
like when you go to bed how do you want 
to be able to talk to this person how do 
you want to be able to be held by this 
person and you're right when you say 
safety is so underrated and I would 
totally never said that in a million 
years because you're right you know you 
started by saying I'm adventurous I am 
I'm like a risk taker I've been a 
business for myself for 30 years and I 
always thought of myself as this free 
spirit and very adventurous and I never 
thought to myself I really want to feel 
safe yeah but now that I feel safe it is 
such a delicious feeling it's like the 
basis for everything else I can do 
creatively spiritually professionally 
because now that I'm grounded in in 
marriage safety love safety like the 
sky's the limit 
so it's I it's really cool I mean I just 
sort of turned that on its head it's a 
great one 
man and and 
to have that kind of love fuels all of 
this other Beauty in your life and like 
Nancy was saying she's pivoted this 
business that she has and you guys if 
you see her website it's beautiful and I 
know so many women that I'm in touch 
with that I coach probably listening to 
this either you have your own business a 
small business a mid-sized business or 
you have this side hustle and you're you 
want to make this your purpose you want 
to take this but you don't know how to 
tell your story I just have to tell you 
I've worked with a lot of people but if 
you want to check out Nancy's work and 
you can tell just by listening to her on 
this podcast how she can take the 
nuggets out and get to the heart of the 
story she's really truly brilliant so I 
would encourage you we'll have the 
website is it Nancy hollow.com yeah 
Nancy 
and check out her website and Nance I 
just have to end with one quick story 
about you from our photo studio which I 
know those of you who have followed me 
on Instagram and if you don't follow us 
at smartdating Academy but you know 
about the berry lip so when Nancy came 
into our photo studio I came in there 
and I'm like and she's like listen I 
know you wanted color and clothes but I 
really wear a lot of black and you know 
and I was like okay that's fine these 
are all great clothes we can make do 
with this and she sits down in the 
makeup chair and the makeup artist like 
we're done I'm like you need to pop her 
lip and Nancy said what do you mean pop 
her lip like this is the lip color that 
I wear and I said no no for our photos 
we will pop your lip you need to have a 
brighter lipstick on they said we do 
What's called the berry lip she's like 
what is the berry lip I said look at my 
lipstick right now right I may not have 
a lot of eye makeup on or a lot of 
makeup on in general but that lip is 
always pop because the science says that 
when men look men are viscerally 
attracted to lips that pop red brighter 
pink Berry she's like I don't know I'm 
like you're in our photo studio and I 
love you and I say this with one but 
we're going to do a berry lip on you and 
that and those photos and the berry lip 
and the berry lip then became something 
that you loved oh my God the berry lip I 
mean that's something we couldn't stop 
talking about on the podcast and the 
Very and I'll tell you what those photos 
pop because the berry lift because the 
smile is so is so front and center and I 
was a nude lip girl for forever you know 
and and those right lips became our 
signature so then Sherry would do a 
bright red lip and I would do a bright 
Berry lip and we had I mean we were 
working with beauty counter that makeup 
company and and there so we're talking 
about the bare lip we sold the berry lip 
on our website 
um I'm a big believer in it honestly and 
I have so many Berry lipsticks now you 
are the queen of the lipstick so your 
lipstick does not move like she can put 
lips but I could put lipstick on at 
seven in the morning and do like five TV 
show appearances and run around town at 
seven o'clock at night she's got the 
same lipstick on and it looks amazing 
I'm like I don't know you're like I 
don't know what magic shellac you're 
using but it is unbelievable the way 
your lipstick stays and it's so pretty 
and you have such a nice smile but see 
you know what else the berry lift does 
it gives you confidence because when you 
have a big bright lip you want to smile 
you don't want to just sit there with a 
pouch you want to you want to show a big 
smile a joyous smile 
that's a good vibe it is the great Vibe 
so 
put on your Berry lip if you're 
listening to this and you're dubious 
about it I'm just going to challenge you 
and every couple of months we do a berry 
lip Challenge on Instagram where we have 
people send their photos and how their 
Berry lip made them feel and I put you 
in my story so we may or may not be 
running it when you're listening to this 
episode but I want you to put on a berry 
lip just find one how good is CVS go to 
Walgreens I'm not saying go to you know 
you know go to Neiman's and buy a 100 
red lip that's going to end up in your 
cosmetic graveyard that's not what I'm 
saying like go buy one of those 
Maybelline five dollar sticks I mean go 
to my Instagram live you guys I did a 
whole 45 minute episode on the berry lip 
and I put on like eight different ones 
to show you guys from three dollars to a 
hundred dollars like you can do this and 
then we ran the challenge so do the 
fairy lip and it will just it it's like 
you know you're kind of like this French 
woman it's like a little femme fatale 
like you can be a little your hair can 
be a little like must up you can be 
wearing black but you put that red lip 
on and suddenly you're like I'm kind of 
badass I know it is it is a badass 
feeling it really is and and a berry lip 
with with sunglasses is like a great 
look oh it's super hard makeup at all no 
and even like you can throw your hair at 
a top knot it doesn't matter it looks 
very chic messy buns sunglasses Berry 
left done very chic very wow Nance if 
you had I mean you've been so incredibly 
generous with your time and I'm grateful 
if you had all day you know that I know 
I love you so much if you could leave 
you know our if you could leave people 
with you know just any Gem of 
inspiration of advice like people that 
are thinking love isn't going to happen 
for me like do you have anything you can 
tell them like that can keep people 
fighting the good fight walking the walk 
running the marathon of Love 
yeah I would say no number one be be 
brave enough and believe in yourself 
enough and believe in your own happiness 
enough to say what you want and I think 
that the truth is as humans most of us 
want to find love I think we'll go that 
way yeah part of our destiny and I think 
that it's out there for all of us it 
really is out there waiting for each one 
of us and so it starts though with being 
brave and saying it and not saying maybe 
or one day or maybe it's not for me but 
but making a declaration and saying I 
will I will find true love and and then 
follow that heart you know follow that 
that that Vision Follow that dream and 
you have to tell yourself that story if 
you're like me you were telling yourself 
all kinds of other stories 
self-defeating stories so you have to 
look at your story you have to look at 
your at your limitations that you've 
placed on yourself that you don't need 
you got to be really brave and you got 
to go for it and I I like you I I'm I'm 
a total optimist about it now Bella and 
I know that that's one of the first 
things you said to me that you're a 
total Optimist a psychotic Optimist 
psychotic Optimist yay and I am too now 
I really really believe it and I feel 
like getting out there and telling 
people about it I mean honestly the 
women I meet I just want to say please 
call Bella I want to be carrying out 
your cards because I really do believe 
that everybody can find some really 
great great great love story but it 
starts with believing that you can 
Nance I love you to pieces and I can't 
wait to see you in person again and 
thank you so much for sharing your story 
with me with things I learned about 
Nancy things I did not know during this 
call even having been her your dating 
coach for quite a while so thank you so 
much and you guys feel free if you love 
this episode which I know you will we 
have a page on our website dedicated to 
Nancy's love story so come and check it 
out at smartdatingacademy.com and if you 
love this episode give us a review I 
don't need a Christmas present I don't 
need a birthday present just tell us how 
much you love this episode and come 
visit smartdatingacademy.com and check 
out nancyholla.com and with that I bid 
you farewell until next time 
