today's guest is one of my soul sisters 
nancy holla nance you and i met for the 
first time on podcast episode one not 
knowing where this journey was gonna 
take us we worked it out where i was 
going to be the test subject i went to 
chicago to have the smart dating academy 
experience the whole kit and caboodle 
i'm going to tell you after meeting you 
i would go on dates and i would think 
about the red flags i stopped ignoring 
the things that really bugged me and i 
started looking for things that i told 
you i wanted and i always thought of 
myself as free spirit and very 
adventurous and i never thought to 
myself i really want to feel safe yeah 
but now that i feel safe it is such a 
delicious feeling it's like the basis 
for everything else i can do creatively 
spiritually professionally because now 
that i'm grounded in marriage safety 
love safety like the sky's the limit to 
have that kind of love fuels all of this 
other beauty in your life it is the 
great vibe 
