when did you first see the red flags oh 
I would say the red flags were there 
before we even got married and I could 
not pull the trigger for myself even 
though I knew it was probably the right 
thing so I'm very grateful that he 
pulled the trigger ultimately for us I 
haven't been dating in 25 years I have 
no idea what that looks like I need to 
recognize red flags I need to also 
recognize the red flags of myself I 
forget where we met but you ran me 
through this whole questionnaire just 
made me feel really relaxed and then we 
got into the nitty grip which is how are 
we going to reconstitute a partner for 
the better half of your life I really 
love the connection I remade for myself 
during those moments and that that was 
also not an easy experience for me every 
one of you is beautiful and we're going 
to see the beauty and we're going to 
highlight it and it's just a really fun 
experience and I'm so glad that that did 
that for you and started that spark back 
into your soul 
