one of your favorite sayings is and she 
lived happily ever after on her own do 
you 
believe in love the second time around 
or the third time or the fourth time 
around oh totally i first of all i'm a 
serial monogamous i believe in love i 
love being in love i love falling in 
love i really do believe every time you 
fall in love you're falling a little bit 
in love with yourself as well again 
and of course i do at any age or stage i 
mean it's so crazy we've had clients 
come in that are in their 80s and i kind 
of think like one of the younger 
associates said the other day like why 
bother and i'm like what she's just 
gonna wait for him to die like 
every day needs to be lived until it's 
to its fullest and if you've hit a point 
again i'm a big fan of couples 
counseling and you know weekend retreats 
to do whatever work needs to be done on 
the relationship but if it really isn't 
working 
get out and move on 
