I have the love story of love stories 
the person that I thought I was supposed 
to spend my life with moved to Chicago 
long story made short it didn't work out 
and so I found myself divorced so you 
and I got a chance to meet and then you 
followed up with a whiz bang and you 
said How's your love life and I wanted 
to go and hide and she's like wait a 
second what do you do for work I said oh 
you know I started this business it's 
called Smart dating Academy and I think 
you might have said we need to talk I 
was like all right I'll sign up for your 
program and I followed the rules the 
book Line singer everything from the 
photo shoot to writing the script emails 
and all that making it so that I had it 
down to a science which was helpful for 
me because I'm a seller it was really 
really simple because I wasn't 
overthinking it one of those reach outs 
was to my husband it was the first time 
I'd ever been in a relationship where I 
was like this is the most natural easy 
thing I've ever experienced and so we 
ended up getting married in Puerto Rico 
we eloped and it was amazing and yeah 
the rest is history 
