[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find l 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to this week's episode of 
the Smart dating Academy podcast I am so 
excited that you are here and I'm even 
more excited to present to you a total 
Rockstar 
attorney my friend Marilyn chinit who is 
a partner at blank Rome with 40 years of 
experience in literally every facet of 
family law divorce law she's worked with 
some biggies I'm going to let her tell 
you about that Marilyn welcome to the 
Smart dating Academy podcast so glad 
you're here God when I heard that number 
of 40 oh it's like wow she's old you're 
not old oh my gosh for those of you that 
are listening go back and look at the 
reals look at the YouTube video this 
woman is drop dead gorgeous when we 
logged on I said my gosh Marilyn what 
are you doing to anti-age so um listen 
to words she says so Len with all those 
years I think I've learned quite a bit 
and um and that's what 
created my practice that's what created 
the longevity I have with my 
clients um and it's a wonderful it's 
been a wonderful Journey 41 years it's 
been terrific and I hope I can do a lot 
more oh absolutely and tell us just you 
know feel free to drop a few names at 
the listeners because you are a trusted 
you are a 
trusted family member to so many people 
without a doubt you know I mean I I 
think I'm really really blessed because 
I love what I do and I didn't start out 
doing matrimonial law I started out as a 
corporate litigator and then was asked 
by one of the partners to quietly do his 
divorce and in those days it was fault 
grounds and that means that you had to 
prove adultery or abandonment or neglect 
or cruel and inhuman treatment so you 
got all the salacious details of 
someone's life life coupled with 
information concerning finances and 
assets and 
valuations I jumped into it and I ended 
up loving it and so I then asked the law 
firm where I was at could we do 
matrimonial law and they kind of hemmed 
and hard and they met with the partner 
board and ultimately they said no it's 
like ambulance chasing we won't do that 
unfortunately for them they they 
imploded I'm still here and then I 
decided switching over to matrimonial 
law was right up my alley so I've built 
a practice over the years um and 
fortunately have met some Extraordinary 
People I I can mention some names 
because they've been in the in the 
public eye so I represented Tom Cruz and 
his 
divorce um and that was a very 
interesting divorce because literally we 
worked around the clock for seven days 
and ultimately settled the 
case place in seven days but literally 
247 everything else was kind of put 
aside because we had to get this case 
resolved and we did um and Tom Cruz had 
a wonderful attorney Bert fields in La 
who flew in and helped us unfortunately 
he passed away um but that was quite an 
extraordinary experience he was 
one really cool guy and a very 
appreciative human 
being so yeah I really enjoyed working 
with him one thing that was really 
interesting and I'll share it he said to 
me I want to be able to speak to my 
daughter every single day for no less 
than 45 minutes and I said whatat are 
you going to talk to a little 
six-year-old about for 45 minutes 
and he said well no matter where I am in 
the world I'm going to shut down the set 
and I'm G to call her and I expect for 
you to make sure that I have that 45 
minutes and we did and she took his call 
every day I said to him what is the 
secret how did you get her and he said I 
dummied down the movie that I was 
working on and I left her at a 
cliffhanger so that she'd want to talk 
to me the next day and fig and find out 
what was story was I thought that was 
brilliant that is really smart that wish 
I was a producer then I could get my 
teams to talk to me every I thought that 
was so clever um and then the most 
wonderful human being uh that I 
represented is um Michael 
Douglas I represented Michael in 
connection with the lawsuit that Deandra 
brought to um get a second bite at the 
Apple when my Micha came out with Wall 
Street too that was an asset that was 
distributed in their divorce but uh she 
did not have any kind of residual rights 
so we litigated that and got that kicked 
out of New York which was great um wow 
Wendy Williams who was such a I don't 
want to say was but she's a fabulous 
talented talk host um who really built a 
tremendous career and sadly uh got sick 
and and we don't see her on the show 
anymore but what a Dynamo very very 
Dynamic so I've been blessed with other 
wonderful celebrities wonderful people 
who may not be 
celebrities um I've represented large 
hedge fund managers private Equity 
regular spectacular women who've devoted 
themselves to the marriage and really 
focused in on their children 
uh intelligent brilliant women and so 
I've had a great array of very 
interesting people and so I love what I 
do because 
matrimonial is not 
just about dividing assets and and and 
separating people and the psychology it 
also involves trust in estate you have 
to have a really strong tax background 
and valuing different assets are so 
interesting 
understand how do you value a hedge fund 
a limited partner a business a law 
practice so in those years I've been 
able to accumulate number one a great 
group of of professionals therapists uh 
private 
investigators um forensic 
accountants um and so with all that 
wealth what I love now is to share that 
wealth and and that is the sustaining 
factor in my in my practice I 
think that's why you have this glow you 
love what you do and there's no glow 
like that I do I really I I honestly I 
married 38 years believe it or not I 
wake up happy every day and I feel very 
blessed every day because I think if 
everybody has their health their kids 
are are healthy you've got it all 
there's nothing there's nothing you can 
accomplish 
and so with that 
mentality I I I turn the faucet on every 
day right and just help people get to 
the next best chapter of their lives 
yeah and and there are a lot of good 
chapters out there and I see it every 
day you know Bella I do a lunch and I've 
invited you uh every April you are 
coming and what I it's 60 women and 
their former clients they current 
clients they're plastic surgeons they're 
business people president of 
Zimmerman um artists I mean such a great 
collection and they get there at like 
12:30 they leave at like 5:30 and they 
all they all have the best time meeting 
each other women are very um very 
generous I 
find um not always sometimes 
professional women are not always so G 
generous um but for the most part women 
want to 
share you know all their all their 
knowledge and they want to share their 
advice and I think it's a great thing so 
that platform is so much fun because 
that's exactly what we do and we 
celebrate we have fun well I'm coming 
you send me the date it's going to 
beend and I will be there until I will 
be the one to shut the lights off and 
that you and me both we'll do it 
together all right girl we'll be each 
other's dates well you know we were 
talking a little bit before we turn the 
record button on about all these 
fantastic women you've represented many 
of them right and why there's so many 
women that just you know kind of resign 
themselves to saying I don't think 
there's anybody out there for me like 
what do you see on that side of the 
spectrum well it's so it's very very 
interesting 
um I'm going to I hate to put people in 
categories but women who have had wealth 
around them are very on guard and very 
careful about bringing a partner into 
their life for fear that they're being 
used that that that person is there just 
for their financial 
circumstances that's not often the case 
at all and so those women who I've 
celed end up 
passing potentially some really good 
uh people that may not be interested in 
materialistic but they have a love of 
culture they have a love of art they 
have a love of 
traveling and you're measuring your bank 
account thinking that they're measuring 
your bank account and they're not and so 
you don't let those opportunities go by 
because you know as we get older we 
really refine the important things in 
our life right friendship is really 
important uh sex may be super important 
health is number one yeah and as we get 
older we should not just dismiss people 
because they don't have a tremendous 
amount of money but they may have a 
tremendous amount of wealth in other 
areas and so I like when women focus in 
on that and I'm beginning to see more 
and more of that um which I think is 
terrific I see that all the time I mean 
we get women that let's just say have 
high net worth for whatever reason right 
and they'll come to us saying I don't 
want to be a nurse I don't want to be a 
purse and and I've heard that Y and you 
know and men can when men will come to 
us we coach men and women and say well 
you know I just and they have net worth 
and well I don't want any gold diggers I 
said but if you're leading with your 
wealth right exactly that's what's going 
to happen and so what I can tell you is 
if you're listening to this you don't 
have to lead with your wealth good 
people that want to love you and adore 
you and you'll do the same back to them 
they're not looking at your balance 
sheet compared to their balance sheet 
right they're not keeping score Marilyn 
my my advice to my clients male or 
female right this person will never 
match you dollar per dollar do they 
really need to as long as they can pay 
their own way what more do you want and 
and also Bella you know you're talking 
to a matrimonial lawyer there are so 
many ways to protect your wealth yes and 
so you could have a prenuptual agreement 
you can set up trusts there are many 
ways that Shield your wealth if that's 
what your concern is that you're going 
to be um you know with somebody just 
because you're going to take care care 
of them financially it doesn't have to 
be that way and so there are many 
many you know ways that we protect our 
wealth and there's nothing wrong with it 
the law actually provides for that so 
that if you're coming into a second 
marriage you have assets that you 
acquired long before that marriage 
you're entitled to protect it the law 
protects it so having a prenup is not an 
offensive thing you know and then the 
other interesting thing is um someone I 
know was married for 30 
years both of them were professional 
highly 
successful and the husband had decided 
that he was not happy and he wanted to 
exit the marriage and he did it in a 
very respectful way they separated they 
got divorced they you know they they 
divided their assets and lo and behold 
four months later the wife former wife 
started dating very quickly and she just 
got 
engaged and I thought that was 
extraordinary beautiful right so she's 
starting a whole new life and it didn't 
negate the value of the life that she 
had with her husband and three children 
it just gave her a new platform very 
different from her 
husband um that opens up other doors and 
no one can sit judgment 
right no no one has a right to sit 
judgment if if you know I got text 
messages wow can you believe that she's 
engaged and I said well why not just 
congratulate her I think that's 
fantastic oh I hope she knows what she's 
doing she's an adult she's a 
professional she found somebody happy so 
let's be happy for her um and that's a 
wonderful thing so some people are ready 
to take the plunge 
immediately it wouldn't be my first 
choice because I think when you end a 
marriage it's an 
opportunity at exploring so many new 
things new 
people and yourself and yourself because 
you forget yourself right you're always 
at the bottom of the of of the uh stick 
there you forget yourself some people 
that I know you know they didn't have a 
chance to travel they they didn't have a 
chance to find an art class or go to the 
museum and all of a sudden life is 
opening up and you know what they're 
taking an art class now they just met 
somebody who's interesting and you know 
they're they're now dating um I think 
every place is an 
opportunity if you have the 
mentality yeah if you come in with a bag 
you know all your baggage and your 
luggage and your 
insecurities it's going to be 
challenging but if you kind of free it 
and I know your platform is a great 
platform to help people people if you 
free yourself up and just enjoy the 
moment the experience you just don't 
know what's going to happen I'm going to 
give you a very interesting example and 
I just took oh I can't wait to hear all 
right so last night I I went to this 
beautiful I mentioned it to you it was a 
Gala the Angel Ball Gala and I took one 
of my clients and and uh her divorce was 
uh two months ago and I said okay we 
can't be late because my client is being 
honored and I want to go to the cocktail 
party so she picked me up and we got 
there about 10 minutes 
early and 
um it was cold in New York yesterday 
last night I had a jacket she didn't 
behind us was this gentleman and he said 
it's cold and I said yes it's very cold 
my friend is freezing and he said well 
let me take off my coat and give it to 
her and she said no no no that's okay 
and I said no could you give her your 
coat yeah take it he put it on her and 
we struck up this fantastic 
conversation and it led to you know what 
he does and he invited us to his Studio 
at another time and it was it it 
created a very lovely introduction and 
and maybe a friendship but certainly 
something that was interesting enough to 
continue a dialogue so I'm a believer 
that if you're open you can you can you 
can have a 
dialogue and and there are people out 
there that I think are very interesting 
may not be the person that you end up 
with but you can have you know a lot of 
new people in your life if you let if 
you let yourself open to it if you're 
open your up open yourself up you're 
right and it's kind of this having this 
yes 
mentality right and it's the fact that 
most people are good people and if you 
look at the world from that lens I'm not 
saying the polyana but yeah if somebody 
strikes up a conversation with you and 
you're cold and he offers his coat take 
the coat it's not a an engagement ring 
it's somebody TR to be nice to you and 
accept that gesture and it forms a 
little bond between the two of you right 
people like to help 
right we all want 
to% makes us feel so good yeah so and 
you never know I tell my clients say yes 
to everything good that comes your way 
because you never know even if you go 
have coffee with that person they may 
not they may turn into a friend that you 
can have Sunday brunch with and they may 
end up fixing you up with absolutely 
your pot a 
th% so 
th% you never you never know when that 
person's going to come along but if it's 
what I would encourage you to do my dear 
listener is ask yourself am I a yes 
person do I look at everything in front 
of me with hope and with opportunity 
versus do I look at it with Dread and 
disdain and negativity and wondering how 
I'm going to get screwed or if and you 
can you're the only person that can 
answer that question but if you feel 
like yeah you know I could stand a 
little bit of your psychotic optimism 
Bella I'm spraying it to you across the 
speakers here so look at people as good 
people and approach the world in that 
way because you know what it just is a 
hell of a lot more fun it is and there 
are safe places to meet people right so 
you know if you're a theater person if 
you like going to the museums there are 
courses there are programs 
and you know there are I love s bees in 
New York because you can walk around and 
look at all the beautiful art and then 
they have a a little cafe and people sit 
at the cafe and they sit by themselves 
and you know I know once I was there and 
and somebody said is anybody sitting 
there and I said no and and it was not 
it wasn't a come on it was just a nice 
person striking up a 
conversation and it ended up that we 
knew people in common but that's how 
your World grows and I think the whole 
point of it of this is how do you let 
your world grow as opposed to closing 
the walls how do you expand them how do 
you take down the walls so that you have 
opportunities to meet people wherever 
you go and I think there are so many 
opportunities um but it all it's in your 
control it's in your control that's 
right and so and it's an easy thing to 
change ladies and gentlemen 
it is and you know there are some I 
always say there are some I love this 
beautiful women out there six 
spectacular models who are so insecure 
about the way they look and then there 
are other women who I think are 
beautiful but they're not like they're 
normal beautiful they're normal but when 
you get to know them and it's the same 
for a man when you get to know them you 
see all of their beauty come out and 
different way and so you only get that 
message two points on that number one 
insecurity is the worst thing that you 
that you can have and it and it takes a 
lot of work to to break you know we all 
have insecurity it all comes from our 
parents you know it comes from our 
background um but breaking that away is 
so critically important I think um and 
then thinking that 99% of the population 
is insecure so I got to walk into that 
room like a Powerhouse cuz then people 
are going to look at you and and and and 
and feel it they feel the energy that 
you pass on they also feel the 
negativity you want to hear a mantra 
that I learned in my 20s that has never 
left me yeah I was thrust into 
leadership at a very young age in a 
family business and was then dealing 
with clients globally and I learn 
something and I teach this to everybody 
that will listen expect 
acceptance was a very good one that's 
great every time you walk into a door 
you tell yourself I belong in this room 
yeah and that's it and it flips even if 
you don't really believe it yes you just 
say I belong here expect acceptance 
because as soon as you do that you 
become a different version of you we're 
all diamonds right we have different 
facets so the facet that you want to 
spin Face Forward 
is I belong here just like you do and I 
know you're going to accept me because I 
accept you and when you come in with 
that Vibe with that jqu you become 
magnetic you bag right insec Y and then 
you're the equal and maybe you're a 
little beyond the equal um you know and 
Eclipse but that's exactly right I 
always had this image I try to explain 
to my my kids my daughter is a lawyer my 
son is at at Duke business school and 
they said Mom I don't know how you keep 
going you like work like a dog all day 
seven days a week then you go out at 
night and you and I said I feel like you 
know that little ragd doll that you you 
turn the doll and and she goes up up up 
up up up up right stands straight up and 
she's Full Speed Ahead and then she 
comes home and then she goes back down 
and I said but if you can keep getting 
up every day and doing that you are 
ahead of the game you're ahead of the 
game and so it's not that the body 
doesn't ache the mind doesn't ache the 
stresses are not there is that you've 
cleared the path and said this is where 
I have to go and you go and you just 
don't have a choice and it's as simple 
as that I'm not very sympathetic when 
when when I can't I can't I can and I 
just yeah you can and we're going to 
we're going to you know we'll do it 
together and I see it with my associates 
how do you get out there in Market how 
do you bring in business come on let's 
go and and and we'll go and we'll do it 
naturally because there's no formula per 
se it's all within your your body it's 
within your head and your heart and so 
you you you look to people who can give 
you that guidance because a lot of 
people really don't have it they don't 
have the mentorship they don't have the 
guidance they may not have the parents 
they may not have the best friend so you 
look to professionals who can help you 
and those are gems those are resources 
and you take even if you take just a 
little of that advice and incorporate it 
into your World it it it's it's a wealth 
of information gamechanging it's 
absolutely game changing and then 
another tip I'm going to give which I I 
found through my life has been very very 
helpful are we on radio only no we're on 
video too okay I'm gonna show you a book 
this is every day every single day I 
write down things I have to do take care 
of because when we're busy in our life 
we have so many things and there are 
thing you too there you 
go Bella how did I know you were gonna 
have the same book and it's sitting 
right here my exactly right always the 
book what's that great satisfaction of 
Crossing off something that we 
accomplished and you don't have to have 
your long list you can have five things 
for the week that you want to accomplish 
write them down out and by Sunday night 
I hope that you've crossed off those 
five 
things and and to me that's that's also 
a great 
motivator you know I in the last in 2024 
I have started to make two 
lists I was a big one list vomit 
everything on one piece of paper have it 
all down sometimes I'd Circle the 
priority things now I do two things 
right 
there's tasky things that we just have 
to do that you're like H but they take 
up a lot of our day I make sure that 
every day I write down three to five 
things that will make me proud to have 
done so tell me what they give me a 
sense of what they may be so well let me 
let me flip back here um I have one 
called intentions and this was from 
yesterday you could see the list didn't 
all get scratched out here it will by 
Sunday it will I'll tell you what it 
said look for what's going 
right this is a new mantra I heard 
somebody talking about this last month 
every time you walk through a doorway 
it's a prompt for you and think about in 
your own house there's many doorways you 
stop and you go what's going right and 
instead of waiting until the end of the 
day to write that gratitude list have 
you paused and said to yourself three to 
four times in a day what's going 
right it has been gamechanging I'm a 
pretty positive person anyway but our 
brains are wired to have a negativity 
bias right it's survival we want to look 
for what's wrong so we don't get eaten 
by the tiger or bitten by the 
rattlesnake and instead when you just 
stop and say what's going right oh my 
God 11 things come to mind immediately 
about what's going right and it and it 
makes you feel good 
in that zone of positivity and the 
reason for those of you watching it's 
not scratched out is because you don't 
do it one time I just want it front and 
center on the things that are going to 
make me proud all the time like didn't 
help me gosh it's helping me so much to 
look that's great I've got to I I've got 
to implement that I think 
about who can I help today 
love that besides my clients so I I am 
the go-to person when somebody needs 
something and and that's a great role 
that I that I was able to achieve 
whether it's medical advice do you know 
a good doctor do you know a good 
coach um and to provide that 
information because if you can become a 
resource for people you know you feel 
good and there is science to this when 
you do an act of kindness you feel good 
about yourself yes there is a 
scientific um basis in your body what 
whatever it is that your body produces 
that when you do something nice for 
somebody it makes you feel good and it 
could be the simplest thing Ed who runs 
the lobby downstairs in our big time ink 
building came over to me one day he said 
I love your attitude tell me your name 
and I told him and he told me his name 
and every morning as soon as I walk 
in Hi Marilyn how Ed how are you how's 
your family you you can't imagine how 
you turn somebody's life on just by 
simple things because people feel like 
they've been neglected and ignored by 
the 
public and you let them know that 
they're important takes so little but 
it's very very nice and it and it gets 
commented by other people that come in 
the lobby that was really nice I didn't 
know his name I see him every day um 
again it's forward you do and it's ways 
to make life I think so much nicer 
because we do have so many stressors out 
there that if you can focus in on what I 
can be proud of and what my intention is 
you put out all that negativity and 
you're focusing in on the good stuff and 
that's the driver 
that that's when you're at the Helm of 
the 
ship it's so true and I think just when 
you switch your energy into that I have 
a friend who did an exercise and she 
said you know when you walk through an 
airport or you're walking on the street 
you're like oh look at that person that 
guy needs to cut his beard off or 
whatever the that Negative Nancy that 
lives in our brains and she said I'm 
going to do this experiment and I'm 
going to every person that I see just 
silently I'm going to tell myself a good 
story about that person so instead of 
you know the guy with the 
Harley-Davidson long beard she says you 
know what I bet he is the fun 
uncle and she's got to be very 
perceptive that's a very good way 
because I I get that and she started to 
notice how much even because she was 
just doing these things in her mind that 
people started 
she's like I would go into restaurants 
and I would think to myself I bet you 
that waitress is the kindest grandmother 
and keeps like two twins on her knees at 
all times suddenly she says you know 
what the waitress just said you know 
what you look like a nice person your 
check is on 
me and she wasn't even saying that 
because she was creating these she gave 
the vibe but the 
energy just the sheer en energ of 
telling yourself a good story about 
another human changes your own the way 
you are perceived by others so try to do 
this and it's I will tell you what it's 
so much more fun because you'll find 
your brain giving you a little dopamine 
squeeze when you say I bet you that guy 
is the fun Uncle because when you think 
about the fun Uncle who doesn't like the 
fun uncle right absolutely yeah 
in that she picked up the vibe so your 
friend who was you know clearly giving 
off some message and it was received and 
that's the whole point about dating too 
you know when you date or when you when 
you are in a group with people it's you 
project certain things and that's what 
makes you interesting attractive 
somebody talk to and and and again it's 
all within your control 
and those are the things that we learn 
every day we get so busy in life you 
know we're moving so quickly um and 
sometimes you just got to take a pause 
and think about things and when you do 
and change maybe pivot just a little 
then a whole bunch of new stuff happens 
um that's why I think waking up every 
day is such a privilege I mean the 
greatest blessing at night is that you 
wake up in the day in the morning so 
what do you you going to make out of 
that day right you got that blessing 
what are you going to make out of that 
day you got to be something 
good I love that I you know I have a 
question just because we're like in this 
mode of positivity and you're right and 
you're saying that just sparked a story 
of a woman that I worked with that my 
team worked with um a couple of years 
ago that came to us she was 71 when she 
signed on with us and she's like you're 
my last hope and I'm like we are not 
your last hope and she said by the way 
I'm not a size two I'm curvy and who's 
going to love me I'm old and I'm heavy 
absolute nonsense the most beautiful 
spirit inside and out and she met this 
amazing guy online and we coached her 
and he is the perfect lid to her pot 
unexpected package when you're looking 
for the things that matter he's 
completely an unexpected package and 
they're having what's called a 
commitment s ceremony my question is 
that a thing legally or is that just 
like so that's interesting that you say 
is that a thing legally tomorrow I'm 
speaking with two judges about whether 
or not are you really married so there 
are cases where you may have had the 
ceremony but you have to have somebody 
officiate the 
ceremony and then you did not send in 
your marriage certificate it was never 
sent in so are you legally 
married um and so there are there a 
whole slew of cases now but if you have 
a commitment ceremony it's not a wedding 
ceremony it's not a marriage right it 
just it's not a marriage it's I 
committing myself to you and I ask that 
you do the same but you don't have the 
marriage certificate 
you do not have if you if you do not 
have somebody officiating that 
ceremony 
um then it's not a marriage and you're 
not thinking that you're married you're 
calling it a commitment you're not 
calling it I'm married and we are 
committed so I think those ceremonies 
are beautiful uh I I I actually my 
husband said and God willing we're 
healthy and okay 40 years and 2 years 
we're going to do a beautiful ceremony a 
um which I think is very very sweet but 
people like to reate their vows or they 
want to say I'm committed to you but 
it's not legally BL 
binding um I said blinding it's not 
legally binding binding but it's 
important that people know that they're 
committed and and you know I find that 
couples who have been together in 
Sweden um they have a thing called 
sambba where you're not 
married but you've been together you 
hold yourself out as husband and wife 
you have children together but you're 
not legally 
married however you do have the rights 
as a married person as a spouse as a 
spouse in New York we do not recognize 
common law marriage so you could be 
living together with somebody holding 
yourself at as husband and wife 
um but you can be together for 20 30 
years and you have no legal rights 
whatsoever not to property not to 
support 
Etc um but if you move to another 
state that recognizes common law and 
you've lived there and you're a common 
law couple there and you come to New 
York then you are married 
then New York will recognize 
that so this is just me conjecturing 
here if with all of the protections that 
exist you can have prenups you can have 
postnups you can have all of these 
things and if somebody wants to be 
together and they have a commitment 
ceremony what is the fear of marriage is 
it 
finances is it like I'm just curious 
from from an attorney's perspective like 
what's the there there 
so I you know I just uh I think I I 
previously mentioned to you I have set 
up three 
couples um two of whom got 
married and 
one they met they're both in their 
60s um they have children from from 
their prior 
marriages they don't want to get married 
they live together they don't want the 
obligation of of I don't want to say 
obligation they don't want the financial 
responsibility of state issues and so in 
the case I I'm very I met I the husband 
the the boyfriend is has been a friend 
of mine for 40 years and the woman was a 
client of mine and I introduced them and 
uh they have the most loving wonderful 
relationship but he has three kids from 
his marriage and he has 
grandchildren and no doubt he will be 
extremely generous but it was important 
for him to keep everything separate yeah 
and they will probably stay 
together until their last breath I mean 
they are so in love and and because they 
have that love and commitment she'll be 
protected no question but he did not 
want that legal uh element to it and 
explain to his children and so forth and 
then they would have a difficult time 
taking her in as a stepmother it's 
complicated so it's a beautiful 
relationship that the kids love and 
respect and they're very happy so they 
don't need to get married in that 
situation that's great and they both 
were fine with it they both were fine 
with it I'm doing a prenup for a couple 
now he's 84 years old and she's 
66 and they do want to get married and 
so we're working on a 
prenup um you know Different Strokes for 
different folks and so sometimes people 
feel like I I want to be married I want 
that blue more than just a commitment I 
want to know that person is is my 
spouse and that psychologically is a lot 
is is Meaningful to them 
totally so it varies that's interesting 
I was wondering like I hear more and 
more about commitment ceremonies I'm 
like what does it mean legally it 
doesn't mean anything it's a good party 
it's a good party you get a great Ring 
maybe you exchange Rings you live 
together exactly whatever it means but 
and if you later get married that ring 
is your separate property by the way 
never in maror to last it um oh my gosh 
everybody needs Marilyn in their speed 
dial to ask how I start thinking oh my 
gosh I can't help myself oh my gosh well 
are there any last things that you want 
to impart to our dear listener with your 
wealth of experience with you know 
humans for the last you know 40 
years I think Making Connections every 
single day is is that beautiful string 
and you don't want you don't want to 
break that chain if you just have one 
link to the chain you're so denying 
yourself all these wonderful things so 
if you can imagine every day I'm going 
to create another link think about what 
that link is going to be it could be a 
connection to an old friend it could be 
a connection to a neighbor whatever that 
link is create a link and and then I 
think you've adorned yourself with the 
most beautiful J Jewel 
imaginable um I think life is so 
fantastic if you take advantage of it I 
mean when I said to you I'm an optimist 
I am I I want to continue waking up 
every day happy and going to bed feeling 
I did the best I could may not be 
perfect but that's okay I paid my taxes 
and I did the best I could right and who 
can I help today I love that about you 
yeah and it could be anybody in nuclear 
you know Circle it could be beyond that 
um I'm blessed I have two adorable 
little grandchildren so if I can help my 
daughter who works nonstop to have a few 
hours to take a break I'm going to take 
those Little Cuties um and so it could 
be somebody close to you and it could be 
somebody far is she a matrimonial lawyer 
just like Mama no she wanted to uh when 
she graduated law school said I want to 
do matrimonial can I come work with you 
and I said nope absolutely not and she 
said why and I said because number one 
if you're going to learn I'm not going 
to cuddle you you've got to learn so if 
you scw up you've got to own up and so 
she went to work for a matrimonial firm 
she loved the people she hated 
matrimonial and she came back to me and 
she said I don't know Mom you made it 
look So Glamorous it's miserable the 
lawyers yell at you the Dodges yell at 
you the clients yell at you it's 
horrible so she ended up leaving 
matrimonial and then she became uh she 
she was Ellen degenerous as lawyer doing 
her branding and Licensing and and so 
she's now created and built her own firm 
with another woman and uh two other 
partners and they do all of us branding 
licensing and IP work and I'm so so 
proud of her you must be yes I really am 
really proud of her that she decided to 
just go out on her own and do it and 
there was a time a month ago she said oh 
Mom you know I have't I have the a lot 
of new clients but I need a a flurry and 
I said it will come she said should I go 
in house and I said no stick where you 
are and just keep on doing it so I have 
no doubt she's going to be a great 
success and I'm really really proud of 
her yeah okay so sharing here my 
daughter was between her sophomore and 
junior year in college that and she's a 
finance 
major she worked at a matrimonial Law 
Firm this summer they her instead of a 
law clerk she was because of her Finance 
background it was a tiny woman-owned 
firm and she went in for an interview 
and they said you understand finances 
she 
says she and this woman and her partner 
like most attorneys don't understand 
finance and in matrimonial law it's all 
Finance she says well yeah I'm going to 
be a finance major can you do excel she 
said I've taken three Excel classes can 
you do PowerPoint and my daughter wrote 
a book and they said could you write 
introductions for the case she wrote a 
book she yeah in high school she's 20 
now she wrote it when she was 16 so 
she's unbelievable a novelist out of her 
head but she doesn't want to be a writer 
because she's like if I if that was myob 
job I would hate it so she worked at a 
matrimonial law firm and I will tell you 
what not only did she love the work now 
for the first time she's gonna study for 
the elsat so fantastic so so where do 
she live she well when she's in school 
she lives with me in Chicago but she's 
at school at Indiana and their business 
at Kelly business school so you got to 
get her to call me or come meet me she I 
will bring her to New York and abs she 
would literally she loved it and I had 
lunch with her the partner that she 
worked for the owner of the firm and 
they said she came up with these 
insights and she was just I was so proud 
of her so I can only imagine for you 
having daughter start her own firm to 
have my daughter working at a firm and 
with a woman who you know she's has her 
own little firm and it was just look how 
did something out of her comfort zone 
that had nothing that she knew had 
nothing to do with what she was doing 
and now she fell in love with possibly 
the idea of going to law school that's 
the whole point right you've got to get 
out of comfort zone try something 
because you never know what door is 
going to open up and I think that's a 
perfect example she should definitely 
come meet me I would love to meet her oh 
that's that's great well you know I said 
to you before it's it's not just about 
dividing assets and support and things 
like that in custody all very important 
but it's about understanding tax issues 
finances valuation issues and and you 
know that's really right up her alley 
you need a good stomach to do your work 
you were doing God's work and I know now 
know that because I lived with it for 
three months so um it's not for the 
faint and weak that's no Marilyn you are 
the most delightful human being I oh 
Bella I love meeting you and I love what 
you're doing with all the wonderful 
people and clients that you work with 
because it's such an incredible service 
and you know it there are not many 
people who have that um experience and 
knowledge and compassion and that's what 
you have so you are a very you very 
unique 
resource well and you are a unique 
unicorn in your world thank you I'm so 
glad our paths crossed I really am so am 
I so am I well smart daters if you're 
not feeling positive and elevated and 
like you're going to say yes and you're 
going to create good stories about 
people and you're going to look for the 
connections and look for what's good I 
don't know what the heck's going to 
inspire you because I feel like I'm 
walking 6 in off the ground right now so 
if you love this episode with Marilyn 
rate it five five stars write us a love 
note I read every single one share it 
with everyone you know that there is 
life after divorce and it can be more 
beautiful than your life has ever been 
that's great absolutely B thank 
you thank you and smart daters until our 
next episode I bid you a week full of 
love and optimism and intention and 
intention hell yes thanks again Mar 
thank you 
