laura wasser is an author entrepreneur 
and family law expert our friend laura 
maintains that divorce is the great 
equalizer it terrifies everyone on earth 
i really like doing this kind of law 
because i'm sure as you will see but on 
a different end of it it's all about 
human nature and human relationships and 
you're helping people to end something 
but begin a new phase of their 
relationship and hopefully a better way 
because divorce is never fun but it 
really is an opportunity to kind of 
represent yourself not only to whomever 
sitting across from you at the table but 
to yourself and feel good about yourself 
in this next chapter for most people 
it's crazy to say i'm healed i'm no 
longer angry or pissed or whatever it is 
it's just okay have you closed that 
chapter and you feel like you've 
invested in you have you fallen in love 
with yourself a little bit and 
the thought of dating puts a little bit 
of a spring in your step 
