[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back I hope you've 
had an amazing week since we met last 
time and today I am called by the spirit 
to talk to you about a topic that comes 
up every single day 
um with our clients and with new 
potential clients and that topic is how 
do I date after divorce 
so I put pen to paper and I've come up 
with the top 10 things to do when you're 
dating after divorce and this has been 
inspired by the fact that I in this 
month of October am speaking to two 
different really big groups one is 
called the National Association of 
divorce professionals and talking to 
their professionals about how their 
clients should date after divorce and 
then I'm speaking to another big singles 
group so I wanted to talk to you my 
audience my dear listener about what you 
should do when you're dating after 
divorce and even if you haven't been 
divorced I don't think you should shut 
off the episode here I think you're 
going to find a lot of tips that are 
going to be useful to you when you've 
kind of come out of any relationship so 
let's get right into it so 
thing number one to do when you're 
dating after divorce is really think 
about have you done the work have you 
done the therapy have you done the 
coaching right divorce and ending a 
relationship even if it's a breakup 
maybe you weren't married but it feels 
like a divorce right and there are so 
many relationships that feel like 
divorces whether you were legally 
married or not it's incredibly painful 
for most people they say during the time 
that it's happening it's the most 
tumultuous storm that they've ever been 
in there's feelings of failure feelings 
of sadness feelings of anger so many 
things that need to be processed right 
and some of us try to go at it alone but 
the issue is this when I get you at the 
other side of the tunnel when you've 
come out of your divorce I can tell the 
difference between the people that have 
done the work and people that haven't 
done the work and you can rest assured 
if I feel like you have haven't done the 
work yet I'm going to tell you date 
coaching is not for you that you need to 
get yourself into therapy and you need 
to process what happened what happened 
to you why did it happen why did it go 
on so long and also just as important 
what your part in the divorce was right 
it always takes two to tango so you 
might be listening to this going oh my 
gosh you don't know my ex he or she was 
awful they were avoidant they were a 
narcissist I had nothing to do with this 
I was the victim but at the end of the 
day when you really start to dig in and 
do the work we all bring our own stuff 
and our own baggage to relationships and 
that stuff for that baggage certainly 
contributes to the good things that 
happen in the relationship but also in 
the bad things that happen in the 
relationship so number one I want to 
make sure that you have done the work 
whether it's therapy whether it's a 
support group whether it's coaching that 
you've done something thing and there 
are so many great therapists great 
coaches great support groups out there 
so make sure that you have done your 
work and you'll know it when you may 
never heal right I don't know that we 
heal from a lot of wounds right but 
you'll know that you'll be able to think 
about what happened to you your divorce 
and without the anger that bubbles over 
the hostility that bubbles over the 
profound 
sadness and grief that you once felt if 
you feel like okay I've gone through 
that I know if you push on that wound it 
hurts but I'm in a pretty good place 
you're probably in a pretty good place 
to think about dating if you've done 
that work so 
um thing number two tip number two on 
what to do when you're dating after 
divorce 
um this is really super important hire 
somebody to help you 30 40 years ago 
there was nobody to help you therapy 
wasn't something that people really 
considered and it wasn't widely 
available I'll tell you what coaching 
didn't even exist right 
um any kind of coaches whether they're 
divorce coaches dating coaches nothing 
like that existence so I'm going to make 
a case for you to hire someone to help 
you navigate what feels like being 
tossed into the Atlantic Ocean without a 
life Fest on I get so many people that 
have come to us and maybe they do our 
love lab workshops or they've been 
listening to this podcast and they're 
like oh my God like I just don't know 
where to go anymore I've tried this I've 
tried that people let me tell you this 
hire someone to help you I'm not saying 
it has to be us at Smart dating Academy 
it can be whomever you think best serves 
you but somebody that is really going to 
help you at the granular level to figure 
out how to date during divorce are you 
ready to do this what are the three 
major pipelines that you should be 
looking at to get yourself out there 
dating and dating successfully right so 
hire someone that is a professional to 
help you go through this process I get 
lots of referrals from therapists lots 
of referrals from divorce coaches from 
divorce professionals divorce attorneys 
hire somebody that can make this process 
less painful because the data bear bears 
out 
you can save 40 to 50 percent of first 
marriages end in divorce but you know 
what 
the data for second marriages 67 of 
those dissolve in divorce and 74 of 
third marriages due and that doesn't 
even include the 10 to 15 percent of 
people that permanently separate so the 
state of our unions isn't very good so 
thank goodness put your big boy or big 
girl pants on on tighten your belt and 
make the investment in someone that can 
help you think about the emotional 
turmoil this breakup or this divorce 
cost you the financial and the economic 
impacts of that where you can make an 
investment albeit it might be sizable in 
making sure that you know how to 
navigate this process the right way you 
would hire a coach in any other aspect 
of your life right if you wanted to 
learn how to golf and you wanted to 
become a golf pro you wouldn't just go 
out and hack by yourself you would hire 
a golf coach Business Leaders CEOs and 
at any company at any level all have 
coaches at that level right professional 
athletes have coaches can you imagine an 
NBA or an NFL team without a coach heck 
no right they have people coaching them 
guiding them on how to be their personal 
best or how to make the team it's best 
to win and to achieve the goals so hire 
someone to help you there's no shame in 
that in fact the stigma is so far down 
the line so you guys know if you want to 
hire us send us an email at 
smartdatingacademy.com and you know we 
will get back to you the same day now 
Point number three fix your picker okay 
fix your relationship picker have you 
noticed that your picker is broken and 
how do you know if your picker is broken 
are have you been in a series of bad 
relationships maybe even before your 
marriage dissolved in divorced where the 
people before that read flaggy and you 
didn't pick well have the people post 
divorce that you've dated with dabbled 
with goes to you been red flaggy 
ultimately been narcissistic avoid it 
overtly controlling or anxious if your 
picker is broken meaning you're doing 
the same thing over and over again again 
get help around this if your picker is 
broken it's what we do every day at 
Smart dating Academy is it easy no is 
there a magic wand that I wave to fix 
your picker no it's about understanding 
why your picker is broken in what way 
it's broken what the bad things that 
it's leading you to do and then how 
we're going to gently fix your picker to 
start to attract the right kinds of 
people that give you what you need 
versus what you just want and why are 
our Pickers broken right I mean there's 
a lot of reasons right attachment theory 
is something those of you who have 
followed my work a lot you no I'm an 
enormous believer and you know we've 
become quite the experts now at 
attachment Theory and how that plays out 
and Pickers can be broken because you 
didn't get the love that you needed when 
you were a kid or a teenager from your 
parents or your guardians or your 
parents or whomever was taking care of 
you now does that mean that they were 
bad horrible abusive people absolutely 
not it just means you as young you did 
not perceive that your needs were going 
to be met adequately by the people that 
you were trusting to get your needs met 
so you can have attachment systems that 
aren't functional that cause you to 
constantly gravitate towards anxious or 
avoided or anxious avoidant Partners 
right now now your picker could be 
broken if even if you grew up in a 
lovely home where you had two great 
parents that wanted nothing more for you 
and you're like oh my God I won the 
family Lottery it's amazing you could be 
that secure person who's constantly in 
relationships with people that don't 
work for you simply because maybe you've 
had early dating relationships where it 
kind of set the imprint in for you 
looking for bad boys or bad girls 
whatever it is someone with a little 
Edge someone that keeps you on your toes 
right those kinds of things don't always 
serve us well in the dating world so 
really think about yourself and if your 
picker is broken and good Lord social 
media and the media they don't make our 
Pickers any better right we watch 
Hollywood films thinking we're gonna 
meet eyes across the produce aisle with 
someone and you know sail off to 
relationship happiness two weeks later 
that's just nonsense right none of that 
works that's why it's fun bubble gum for 
the brain to watch the rom-coms are on 
the screen because they're not realistic 
that's not how real life happens and 
remember we're also evolutionary program 
to search and preference certain traits 
for women its height for men its age 
maybe our body shape there's so much to 
this that enables us and causes us to 
pick people that aren't good for us so 
rule number three or tip number three 
when you're dating after divorce is fix 
your picker and again that goes back to 
rule number two if your picker is broken 
and list the experts to help you please 
I beseech you to do that don't think you 
need to do this on your own you really 
really don't especially if you think 
your picker is broken do something to 
fix it because it doesn't magically fix 
itself because even if I put the most 
perfect person in front of you if you 
had a broken picker you would think ugh 
I'm not attracted to this person ugh 
this person is boring I'm not feeling 
any chemistry so if this sounds like you 
you might just have a broken picker now 
thing number four that I want you to do 
is get psychotically optimistic about 
your future right you've just come 
through the dark tunnel of divorce and 
hopefully that storm cloud is lifted and 
the sun is shining and you're feeling so 
good about your life and you have grown 
to love your life as it is now okay when 
people say fall in love with yourself I 
think what they actually mean is fall in 
love with your new life enjoy you get to 
know you enjoy spending time with you 
get to know new people get to make new 
friends right so much of the drama of 
divorce causes so many of our friends to 
abandon us you know who your real 
friends are once you go through a 
divorce right so I want you to get 
psychotically optimistic about your 
future because when you're doing the 
right things when you get your picker 
fixed when you have somebody alongside 
with you you will become psychotically 
optimist stick and I want you to keep 
the Mantra remember for those of you who 
don't know what psychotic optimism is it 
means you believe that love will come to 
you whether it feels like the Sahara 
Desert and dry dry right now or you just 
feel down and out you feel like 
nothing's going to happen I want you to 
tell yourself love is out there for me 
it's a when it's not an if I'm gonna 
have to do some things differently and 
I'm gonna have to push myself out of my 
comfort zone and I'm gonna have to make 
some changes in the things that I'm 
doing but I know in my heart of hearts 
that love exists for me it's a when it's 
not an if and if you truly believe that 
you'll start to vibrate at a different 
level and once you're vibrating at that 
level you'll start to let good people in 
you'll start to date better you'll start 
to have better fun and better luck 
through this process as well now thing 
tip number five okay now your mindset's 
in the right place let's say you're 
picker is fixed you've done the work 
you're feeling psychotically optimistic 
about your dating future number five I 
want you to get online the right way 
okay you need to take this seriously 
most people come to us with profiles 
where I was like oh are you kidding me 
men and women okay people pick what you 
do is you don't take this seriously I 
want you to take this as seriously as 
you would selling your home okay I want 
you to take this as seriously as you 
would job search you would invest in 
that you would get a new suit if you 
were job searching you would hire a 
professional to write your resume you 
would practice interviewing with someone 
you trusted you would do all of these 
things because you're like wow it's 
really important that I position myself 
the right way for job search or if 
you're looking to sell your home right 
that could be a fifty thousand dollar 
home it could be a five million dollar 
home but whatever it is you want to to 
make sure that you're maximizing top 
dollar are you going to take some old 
cell phone photos of your kitchen and 
your bedroom from your iPhone with all 
your clutter and crap laying around when 
it's not well lit heck no you're gonna 
have your realtor give you advice and 
they're going to help you stage your 
house and you're going to hire a 
professional photographer to take photos 
now I wish people would put half the 
effort into themselves in the dating 
process as they do into job search as 
they do into selling their homes right 
you would reap so many benefits if you 
do ladies and gentlemen you have to have 
great photos as part of this process you 
need to have six amazing photos of you 
and that doesn't mean the six best 
photos you have in your phone and if 
you're laughing right now you're just 
like everybody else that comes to us we 
pick the best of what we have right it's 
like thinking you're gonna cook a 
gourmet meal and picking like the six 
things that are sitting molding in your 
refrigerator potentially they're not 
that great they're half eaten but you're 
going to prepare a gourmet meal out of 
that absolutely not you would have a 
plan you would have a recipe you would 
know it in advance you would go to the 
grocery store you would buy the freshest 
best ingredients right you would know 
maybe you would even practice making it 
before you would entertain a group with 
that meal so here I want you to think 
about having that preparation having 
great photos if you don't know what 
great photos look like go to 
smartdatingacademy.com look at our 
photos and profiles Page look at our 
inspiring stories Pages there are so 
many amazing photos on there and I'll 
let you know we're putting that stuff 
out there for every client that's your 
competition the people that I'm putting 
online I'll tell you what you don't want 
to compete with my clients right we've 
got the best photos so you want to dress 
to impress have great headshots have 
great body shots and take this seriously 
do not just use the phone the pictures 
that you have in your phone own and all 
the data shows that we don't pick the 
right photos of ourselves get rid of the 
photos with your kids get rid of the 
photos with your ex that look like a 
crime scene get some new photos and have 
somebody besides you pick the best 
photos of you we have an online dating 
love lab called the 
um online dating love lab and where we 
pick our clients best photos and then we 
really teach people how to position 
themselves how to have the best photos 
how to post what kind of lighting all of 
the things so there's a lot of great 
information out there if you don't feel 
like cobbling it together and figuring 
out on your own again hire someone that 
can help you to do that and then spend 
some time writing some great text on 
your profile okay something that sounds 
positive something that sounds specific 
something that's about you leave all of 
the negative ambiguous verbiage out of 
there one of my pet peeves is when 
people say they're not looking for any 
drama you know what the person that says 
they're gonna they're not looking for 
dramas the person that's gonna cause you 
drama okay but I digress have a great 
profile and again if you need someone to 
take a look at your profile take a look 
at your profile text hire someone to 
help you get your profile into my cute 
little hands and I will help you with 
all of this to make sure that you're 
putting your best foot forward and if 
you're thinking right now especially 
ladies do men really read profiles the 
kinds of guys that you want to date are 
going to read your profiles okay so you 
want to make sure that you're putting 
the best gems about you out there okay 
now Point number six tip number six have 
a dating strategy you can't just go out 
there and throw some spaghetti at the 
wall on this I want you to think about 
this again as seriously as you would 
date sir as partner search looking for a 
new job job and partner search job 
search is what I meant to say thinking 
about how you would sell your house you 
need to have goals you need to have a 
plan okay so now that you're going to 
have hopefully and I've talked you into 
getting amazing photos that look like 
you okay I'm not saying the souped up 
glammed up filtered up version of you 
because guess what y'all you got to show 
up to the date and you gotta look like 
those photos so don't be over filtering 
and over photoshopping that stuff 
because it will bite you in the you know 
where okay so now you're gonna have a 
dating strategy okay I want you to think 
about creating a dating funnel and 
creating a dating funnel means you're 
going to Pedal that bike you're gonna 
send out lots of proactive messages and 
you're going to spend 15 minutes in the 
morning 15 minutes in the evening I want 
30 minutes a day just like you would to 
work out just like you would to do 
anything important in your life you have 
to put some scheduled time into this 
process okay and again if you're coming 
out of divorce and you're a single 
parent use video video to be efficient 
don't just message someone and go 
straight to meeting someone where you 
have to hire a sitter right do a video 
date 15 to 30 minutes all the apps have 
them built in now it really avoids a lot 
of disappointing dates and remember what 
do I always say to you guys crazy cannot 
hide for more than 10 freaking minutes 
so if you do a video date and if 
somebody's truly cuckoo for Cocoa Puffs 
it's going to come out during the video 
date okay and then as part of your 
dating strategy only go on two dates a 
week okay now with our clients I know 
you're smiling and I know you know what 
this dating funnel looks like what this 
scheduling looks like and how to 
navigate all of this 
I only want you to go on at maximum two 
in-person dates a week because I want 
you to stay psychotically optimistic I 
don't want you to have dating fatigue 
about your dating life I want you to 
have the energy to do this I want you to 
fill up your cup I want you to be with 
your elevator people the people that 
elevate you and they bring out the best 
version of you I want you to exercise 
because exercise builds beta endorphins 
and good happy hormones and it makes you 
healthy and fit right I want you to eat 
well I want you to sleep well I want you 
to do all of those things that are going 
to keep your dating cup full so only go 
on two dates a week at Max okay now 
Point number seven I want you to 
remember get your pen out take a note on 
your phone right now take things slowly 
keep them slow okay people especially 
coming out of divorce you know what we 
want to do sometimes we want a Revenge 
date because our X is already with 
somebody sometimes we just want to fill 
those voids with that new boo that new 
person and we want to get out there and 
we don't want to date because we just 
want to be snuggled up in a happy 
relationship today but remember those 
divorce statistics okay that's what 
happens when we take things too quickly 
okay I want you and especially if you've 
been in an abusive and empty a Loveless 
relationship Your Love cup is probably 
empty and I love you're ripe for a love 
bomber to come along and fill up your 
cup and tell you all the things and 
sweep you off your feet and all the 
things you've been craving you've been 
wanting to hear the gifts the words and 
I'm telling you when you speed things up 
too fast you're really really 
susceptible to all of that you're 
susceptible to being oxytocin bonded 
because you've slept with this person 
too quickly you're susceptible to 
missing red flags because now you're 
chemically bonded to this person and 
you've only got one option and if your 
brain and if your picker's broken you 
want to sweep all those red flags under 
the rug and just make put a round Peg 
through a square hole and make sure this 
is the one because you just don't want 
to be in the dating pool again ladies 
and Gentlemen please keep things slowly 
you know if you have listened to this 
podcast long enough and if you haven't 
go back and listen to the Sylvia foti 
the Nazi's granddaughter episodes called 
the 15-day rule we want 15 dates with 
the person over three to four months 
super slow get to know people date them 
old school okay keep things slow in the 
dating process there is no substitute 
for one thing and that's time you cannot 
take things too slowly it should be 
ramping up at a nice Pace but not 
ramping up in two to three weeks okay I 
hear other coaches and matchmakers 
talking about uh a 10-day rule over you 
know and you can go on as many dates as 
you want and all of of those things I'm 
telling you keep things slow you will 
thank me later okay you will miss red 
flags if you keep things up every one of 
my clients that has come out of divorce 
said yeah I jumped into things too 
quickly and I missed a lot of red flags 
okay now Point number eight and this is 
kind of a funny Point don't go over to 
anybody's house prematurely when we want 
to speed things up in the dating world 
we want to gather so much data and we 
want to see this person maybe you know 
this person has said oh my gosh it's 
date four I want to cook you dinner 
nobody's taking care of you let me do 
that right you go to this person's house 
right there's a bottle of wine there's 
Frank Sinatra playing in the background 
you know how that story can end oh my 
gosh I just slept with this person and I 
didn't mean to do that right or so when 
you let somebody cook you dinner they 
probably have good intentions but things 
can go too far too fast if that's sounds 
like you keep yourself out of those 
situations one hundred percent and also 
don't go over to somebody's house 
prematurely I've had that many people 
tell me well I just went over to his 
house for a couple of minutes but ugh 
his house was a disaster or you know oh 
my gosh I looked inside his refrigerator 
and there were all these leftovers and 
they looked like they could walk out of 
the fridge they were too old guys that 
is information that is known too soon 
and that is easily fixable stuff you 
cannot fix character and character 
doesn't mean do you have fresh food in 
your refrigerator and does your house 
need a little bit of fix up okay I don't 
want you to go to somebody's house 
prematurely and I don't want you to have 
somebody at your house prematurely 
either because they're gonna judge you 
and I don't want them to judge you on oh 
my God your house is way too amazing I 
can't keep up with you or ugh your house 
isn't that great either I don't want you 
getting judged for anything I am hashtag 
team you dear listener dear smart dater 
so just trust me don't go over to 
anybody's house prematurely okay 
um you'll thank me later now along with 
that rule number nine get physical if 
and only if you want to you might even 
pass 15 dates and you might not be ready 
to you know do the big bang with 
somebody you do you okay you pick a 
person that's willing to accommodate you 
there is no such thing as a three-day 
rule ladies and gentlemen don't let your 
friends that have no idea what the hell 
they're talking about make you nervous 
oh everybody's having sex out there oh 
my God if you don't put out you there's 
you're gonna lose all the good ones 
that's all absolute BS and nonsense you 
take the physical aspect only at the 
pace you want to go at okay and remember 
if you haven't listened to the safe sex 
episode that I did with Dr Lauren 
Striker a couple of episodes ago please 
listen to that before you decide that 
you're going to do the three-day Rule 
and jump into the sack with somebody 
okay there's no pressure to do anything 
and a good partner for you will respect 
you and your boundaries and if somebody 
is making you feel badly because you're 
not going fast enough guess what they 
might not be the right person for you 
and that might be a red flag that you're 
missing right now okay and finally roll 
tip number 10 only take advice from 
people who can guide you correctly this 
might resonate with you so many people 
think they can take advice from their 
married friends so many people think 
they can take advice from their best 
friends so many people think they can 
take advice from their single friends 
I'm gonna tell you this if you broke 
your leg would you ask your neighbor who 
is an electrician how to fix your leg no 
you would go to an orthopedic surgeon 
conversely if your electricity went out 
you wouldn't ask your orthopedic surgeon 
to come over and fix your breaker right 
you would call an electrician in this 
realm please please please 
stop listening to the people in your 
life that are coming from a good place 
they come from a place of Love they want 
the best for you but they also might be 
telling you what you want to hear or 
they might be telling you anecdotal 
things from their own experience which 
don't make them true that's just their 
experience only take advice from people 
that have your best interest at heart 
and our professionals and can guide you 
correctly like I said your friends your 
family don't get me wrong I'm throwing 
no shade they mean well but they don't 
know how to do this they don't know how 
to navigate the dating World in today's 
day and age this Rule n goes back to 
rule number two hire someone to help you 
to do this you don't have to do this 
alone and what I want you to know 
is that if you are dating after divorce 
right 
you too can be a love story go back and 
listen to some of the episodes like 
Andrea javer who found love after 
divorce Sylvia foti who found love after 
divorce sugar found love after divorce 
Marilyn Found Love after two divorces I 
promise you getting the help that you 
need from whomever it is that you trust 
will help you through this process and I 
hope that you are inspired and you're 
feeling a little bit psychotically 
optimistic because you've gotten some 
good nuggets and you know that love 
exists for you out there it's a one it's 
not an if and I've given you 10 rules to 
make sure that you don't end up in that 
second or third or fourth fourth divorce 
statistic so if this resonates with you 
please share this episode everywhere you 
can on your social media rate our 
podcast give us five stars tell us what 
you loved about this we're always here 
here to help you sign up for a 
consultation go to 
smartdatingacademy.com if you need the 
help if you've been listening for a 
while and you're finally like God I need 
to take this step and I need to do this 
for me and I want to be like all these 
other people out there that find healthy 
happy love maybe your pic your picker 
needs fixing that is our superpower 
reach out schedule a session nothing 
would make me happier than being your 
personal Fairy Godmother in dating and 
love so until next week I bid you 
farewell and I wish you a week Full Of 
Love full of psychotic optimism and full 
of great dates see you soon 
