[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your life smart taters 
welcome back I am so excited to be here 
for you today and to introduce an 
extraordinary person to you her name is 
Jody Lavoy Jody is a widow Jody is an 
entrepreneur Jody is a coach she's a 
mother of three people Jody is an active 
dater more importantly Jody is not only 
a client at Smart dating Academy but is 
a dear friend of mine who is here to 
share with you what her journey in her 
life has been which I know many of you 
will find pieces of this that you will 
relate to and you will put Jody in your 
heart forever and Jody's going to tell 
us our story her story 
um and what it's like to date as a widow 
what it's like for her and tips for all 
of us as to what to do and what not to 
do if you're dating a widow or widower 
so Jody welcome to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast I'm so excited to talk 
to you today thanks Bella I'm excited to 
talk to you on the podcast and always 
and you guys before I begin Jody is an 
incredibly humble person but she's a 
total badass entrepreneur 
leader she's really an extraordinary 
human being so I'm just gonna proceed 
with that so and now I'm gonna ask her 
to tell you her story but I really want 
you to listen with those years because 
this is truly an amazing human being 
tell us you Jody tell us about 
your life your marriage and and we'll 
let's just go 
well I guess I'll start with my marriage 
I met my late husband on a blind date 
and it was a blind date 
through a dating matchmaking service 
and because there wasn't really online 
dating back in the late 90s thank you 
everybody for dating myself here but 
we're all good hey we're all children of 
the 90s right that's right and we were 
set up I live in outside of Chicago and 
we were set up at a restaurant in 
Chicago Catch 35 it still exists today 
and I I brought a prop Bella for this 
even though I love it because it's a 
podcast but my husband to be was wearing 
this hat 
oh my god oh if you guys could see it 
maybe we're gonna put a little we'll try 
and get a screenshot of it in there but 
it's like a Russian how do you describe 
it one of those yeah is it a Babushka I 
don't know why I always thought that's 
what it was I don't know it's a Russian 
black fur hat and it's February in 
Chicago so it makes sense but not a 
first date hat you probably wouldn't 
tell your clients but I like to wear 
that on a date and I found that so 
endearing I think and I would say it 
certainly wasn't love at first sight 
but he intrigued me and he just had this 
big 
big like a really big presence about him 
that made me I I prepared for our second 
date Bella we were going to the Art 
Institute I'm like I better research 
what are we seeing so I can you know 
have some very intelligent things to say 
just because he he had that kind of 
presence about him and I really I loved 
that piece of him as well 
and so we we went on dating 
um for Let's see we dated for about a 
year and a half and there was a time I 
actually put a deadline on okay if we're 
gonna not gonna move this relationship 
forward that's okay but let us come 
together at you know in a year and a 
half and make that decision because I 
wanted to have children and 
if if he wasn't going to be my person 
um which I certainly hoped he was going 
to be and he was then I'd want to make 
that decision so anyway that time came 
we got engaged on my birthday which is a 
day that I was a little cuckoo about my 
birthday Bella because it's right before 
Christmas and as a Christmas baby my mom 
always made sure that I was showered 
with birthday gifts that were not 
wrapped in red and green and so my 
birthday was kind of a big deal and he 
knew that and so he knew that would be 
the only day that I would be surprised 
and I was completely surprised so it was 
truly special and we had an amazing 
marriage that we worked at we were 
really intentional about keeping our 
relationship as a primary relationship 
after our kids were born we had a 
standing date night every Thursday night 
we had a standing babysitter if he was 
out of town for work he flew back in and 
so it was a huge commitment for us in 
fact my wedding band said my commitment 
because that that 
to us was first and foremost were 
committed to each other we're committed 
to working on the relationship we're 
committed to investing time in it and 
that really was so important to me 
yeah and then we had three amazing 
daughters who are 
two are have kind of flown The Coop 
Bella and only one at home you know you 
just sent your daughter off to college 
oh it hurts right like something inside 
of you physically hurts 
yeah 
it is it does but then you see them 
there and they're they're where they 
should be right right so that just it 
feels good it does feel good 
yes and then let's see my husband 
founded a business in 2000 in Chicago 
and you know over the years I I worked 
on and off in the business I did a 
little HR I did a little marketing I did 
some of the bookkeeping and then I took 
eight years off to raise our kids 
and then in 2014 
the unthinkable happened my world 
changed forever Bella 
um I received a knock on the door at my 
home from a local police officer who was 
holding a slip of paper that had the 
phone number of a Chicago police officer 
and all he said was your husband has 
been Gravely injured I need you to call 
this number and I said okay what 
happened he wouldn't tell me so I took 
the paper called the number and that 
police officer just said 
your husband is in surgery can you get 
downtown and I'm like yes what happened 
wouldn't tell me and then a few minutes 
later Bella my cell phone rings it is 
the Press they told me 
and 
no no I'm not kidding I didn't know I 
never told you that no yeah yeah it was 
the press that it happens 
instantaneously when I was my dad drove 
me downtown and I could see the 
helicopters oh and I haven't told 
everybody what happened so he my husband 
was shot at work by an employee that he 
demoted four days prior who came back to 
the office and shot my husband and this 
is downtown Chicago in the loop so this 
affected 
hundreds and hundreds of people they 
evacuated buildings and there are many 
people who were head offices in that 
that space that remember it and as I was 
driving downtown with my dad I could see 
the helicopters the news helicopters 
like hovering over 
the scene 
and it's just crazy because 
you you see parts of your life in the 
news it was on you know the nighttime 
news the news people camped out in front 
of my house and I had my kids here and 
my mom here and they would ring the 
doorbell and so my kids and my mom left 
they went and stayed at my mom's house 
and they never found her there the Press 
showed up at our church for Candlelight 
vigils they came to the funeral 
they knocked on my door the day Steve 
died he did not die right away he never 
regained Consciousness and he was in the 
hospital for three months and then he 
did pass away but 
overnight 
when this happened all of a sudden at 
first you know I'm worried about my kids 
I was scared to call his parents and 
tell them this happened to their son 
like that's just an awful thing and I 
actually had my brother-in-law and 
sister-in-law do that because I can't 
deliver that they need somebody in 
person to hear that kind of news and 
I woke up the next morning and I went 
well I never slept of course but I woke 
up I'm like oh my gosh I I'm now running 
a business because that was the plan if 
something happened to Steve I would take 
over and 
that was the extent of the plan Bella we 
didn't but fortunately 
you know it was we were the largest 
shareholders we talked about the 
business all the time I had traveled 
with Steve I knew many of the employees 
I knew where Steve wanted to take the 
business so so I knew a lot of those 
things which is is really fortunate yeah 
um yeah and I guess part of me I was in 
shock of course early on and having to 
jump into some of these things I think I 
was happy I was in shock you know in 
retrospect I bet it was just there were 
so many fires to put out and 
um it took 
but well let's see it was running the 
business for three years until we sold 
to private equity and those were the 
most stressful years of my entire life 
for sure and you know because my 
daughters struggled as one can imagine 
when this happens and 
you know each of them were struggling a 
little bit differently and needed extra 
help in different ways and so that took 
a lot of time and energy and then the 
business so there really was not much 
time for myself back then for sure and 
my health certainly suffered from that 
wow wow so in one moment your entire 
life just went upside down and you had 
you didn't even have a moment to 
yourself it's like you had three little 
girls you had a sizable business to 
assume CEO ship of while you're grieving 
it's like it just sounds like you were a 
player that went on to the court and 
that was it like you didn't have time to 
think about anything except the game you 
had just been 
inserted into 
it it's so true I did take a brief trip 
after Steve died I I like to go to 
Canyon Ranch in Tucson and who doesn't 
it's awesome there but they have 
programs and it just so happened I was 
looking at their schedule and they had a 
rabbi that was coming to speak about 
grief and I'm like I need to be there so 
I packed up all my grief books because I 
had received quite a few and hadn't 
cracked any yet and and that was my 
first chance really to be alone you know 
I had my room to myself I knew I was 
going to do some of this grief work with 
this Rabbi I was going to be in nature I 
was going to be able to take advantage 
of some of that and Bella I needed 
privacy to just to scream to cry to vent 
to do all of that because you're right 
yeah 
I absolutely want wanted and did show my 
children you know crying but 
they didn't need to see the crazy 
hysterics that I really had to get out 
of my system at that point and so that 
was that was really helpful and that was 
right after you just got out of it yeah 
yes it was probably two weeks after he 
actually passed away keeping in mind he 
was unconscious for three months so 
yes and people that were at that that 
session it was over a couple days are 
like wait your husband just died two 
weeks ago and you're here I'm and and I 
was like absolutely I've got to tackle 
this grief thing and figure out 
how to do it and what does that look 
like and what should I be doing what 
shouldn't I be doing and of course 
there's no shoulds or shouldn't but at 
that moment that's where I was 
and did you have anybody around you that 
could help you with this grief or this 
was a journey that you embarked on it's 
like nobody had walked in your shoes how 
could they have no no and there's and 
there's the fact that yes I'm grieving 
and then there was the fact he was 
murdered like yeah that doesn't happen 
in my community it hadn't happened to 
any of my friends my youngest daughter 
was nine at the time and so all of a 
sudden like the world is in a safe place 
your dad's supposed to come home from 
work and so having that lesson 
and instilled in them was just awful so 
I did a couple things so number one I 
found a local organization actually that 
supports children who've been victims of 
homicide the Sheila oil foundation and 
they have a summer camp and so I 
literally was just Googling and came 
across them and reached out to them and 
very quickly they they knew my story 
since it was in the news and I met with 
the head of the organization and my kids 
went to Camp that following year I 
wanted them to meet other kids that this 
had happened to that had lost a you know 
a dad or a mom from homicide because 
I don't know you say that and it's like 
you have two heads so right so that was 
helpful for them and they had a parents 
program too because I I wanted to talk 
to other people that had lost spouses 
that way 
so that was one thing it did and then 
secondly there was just an ad hoc group 
of widows in my neighborhood that they 
were getting together socially and for 
support and just to bounce crazy things 
off each other that happen that people 
say sometimes or 
um gosh I got in the mail and I guess 
only a widow would laugh at this but it 
was addressed to my husband 
after his death couple years after his 
death asking if he wanted to be cremated 
I'm like really God oh my God take us 
off the list but anyway those women 
were so supportive and had walked where 
I'd been because they were a year or two 
ahead of me in their grieving process 
and we got together monthly for a while 
and unfortunately the group grew because 
that there were more and more widows 
entering my community and that was a 
really good point and that was just 
something we we did 
our connection got a little wonky so I 
apologize for that but 
doing is that Chad a great group of 
widows that got her through this she had 
a good therapist and you know day by day 
week by week things you know times that 
the hands of time kept ticking away and 
my question is when at what point did 
you start to see a little bit of light 
at the end of the tunnel or through the 
tunnel and when did we connect let's go 
there 
yeah so I would say just because of the 
running the business element which tends 
to be different than most widows 
experiences 
um I started to see the light after the 
business was sold because that and that 
was always the intent of the business 
was to sell at some point and that that 
was when the time was right so I really 
was able to breathe frankly Bella I have 
a sign downstairs that just that says 
just breathe so it did feel like then 
there was this huge weight that was 
lifted off me and I I took a trip 
um there's a there was there's a woman 
who's a widow and she did these 
Adventure trips in it so I thought okay 
I sold the business a month later I'm 
gonna go take this adventure trip with 
other widows and and um and that was 
that was really healing for me as well 
so so yeah three months or three years 
three years so now we're in 2017 and 
when did you start to think about dating 
now you go on this adventure trip you're 
like okay like when did the thought of 
going on a date first excite you 
yes so after I sold the business 
um that's when I really started thinking 
about it so 2017 we met I think Bella in 
2018 because before I met you ugh this 
was terrible I was the worst dater so I 
went back to that matchmaking company 
that I used was Steve because I thought 
I met Steve through that and hired them 
because I was still really uncertain 
about this whole online thing 
and because of all of the media coverage 
and in the news and that was just so 
invasive I just I I feel very private I 
guess about my personal life in that 
regard so that was making me leery so 
the whole matchmaking thing I thought 
would be a good idea well 
I went on these dates these these poor 
men I I they were such Troopers I was 
trying to solve their business problems 
you're like hey how about I Mentor you 
and solve your and and these were guys 
that you were meeting through the 
matchmakers 
I did because I didn't know how to date 
like I didn't know how to flirt I didn't 
I didn't know how to do any of that and 
and so I guess I I view that time as um 
some dating boot camp and experience so 
I I got experience during that time a 
little bit I probably went on eight 
dates uh with eight different men and 
then 
I knew that wasn't working and I really 
needed an expert to teach me to teach me 
how to date again and teach me this 
whole crazy world of online dating and 
what's appropriate and what's not 
appropriate and 
I don't know what do you what are what's 
some how do I be witty and cute in two 
sentences on to capture someone's 
attention and so all of that was so new 
to me and I wanted 
to make sure that I was putting myself 
out to this dating world in the best 
light possible 
so so I found you one of my friends good 
friend introduced me to you and forever 
thankful for her and we started working 
together 
wow and what was it like 
to 
you know think about embarking and 
embarking on The Dating process you were 
smart I always say we get get help where 
you need it prep yourself in the right 
way and how did it feel like you've had 
the love of your life and now you're 
doing this again like tell us like for 
people I know people listening to this 
maybe you listener have lost someone you 
love like Jody did or maybe you listener 
are open to dating somebody who has lost 
the love of their life like what were 
you thinking what were you feeling what 
what what should we know I just want to 
open it up 
oh absolutely and so I was personally 
ready to start dating I knew I felt 
solid about who I was I I felt 
definitely ready to date but I'll tell 
you it was scary 
um because these are new people new men 
entering my life and it's not my husband 
and what is that going to be like and I 
think I got some of that out of my 
system with the poor eight people before 
sorry if you're listening eight people a 
much better dater now 
um 
so 
I and I guess what I really went back to 
Bella and this was a really 
transformative conversation that my 
husband and I had was our values and he 
had never really thought about what his 
values were like that those weren't 
language they used in their household 
and that was key to me so being really 
clear on what my values are and and 
stick to my guns on that is has been and 
is really helpful going through the 
dating process for sure 
that's amazing and what did it what was 
it like getting your photos taken at our 
studio and writing a profile and the day 
what we do at Smart dating Academy is we 
call it launch day right we've got your 
pictures done we do the photo shoot we 
help you write your profile and then 
you're on there and you're live and 
you're like oh my gosh what do I do 
yes and thank goodness for Lindsay I 
mean she held my hand the whole way 
because you know all of a sudden this is 
my first time you're getting likes and 
hearts and winks and you know all of 
those different things and 
uh knowing how to respond and it took 
practice but you know but Lindsay was 
with me every week uh helping me along 
the way and 
um I've as you know I've worked with you 
twice now so the first time was for six 
months and I actually met I'm well I met 
I met somebody in that time somebody 
that frankly was one of those people 
Bella that you talk about our first date 
I'm like it was there were Sparks I 
frankly have never felt that way in my 
life like there was this instantaneous 
connection and 
and um I think I I got 
I lost sight of where my values were 
Bella but it only took three months and 
he showed his true colors and 
um you know he's he's still out there 
dating and actually when I went back 
online recently he reached out to me 
again and at the time he had he was not 
divorced yet he was he was separated 
certainly and he'd actually dated 
another client of yours and so so 
knowing that because what he was telling 
me was lining up with what he told the 
this other client of yours so that 
reassured me I guess a little bit Yeah I 
was really nervous about dating a 
separated person Bella and and but he 
said I'm getting divorced you know the 
next month and same that he had told 
your other client 
um we've got all the inside Scoops he 
disappeared so we know we know who's 
telling the truth and who's not because 
we're online in everybody's inboxes yes 
yes but I loved that but anyway so he 
disappeared basically like some people 
do he just wasn't ready for a 
relationship and oh by the way this is 
now four years later he's still not 
divorced Bella 
bananas bananas yes so then I met a man 
that I dated for two years and 
we we were in love Bella and this was 
also we met a year before the pandemic 
started and three months into our dating 
I got breast cancer again for the second 
time and you know I mean here's this guy 
he just started dating me he didn't have 
to stick around and he stuck around and 
he sure did he he really did and he went 
to all my appointments and he went to 
the surgery and that really carried a 
lot of weight for me which made me also 
not ask a lot of the important 
value-based questions 
and kind of turn a blind eye on some 
things so at the end of our two-year 
relationship and and I wasn't working 
with you while I was in this 
relationship had I been I think you know 
a lot of these questions that I didn't 
ask would have come up a lot sooner but 
it kind of got to the point where okay 
well we're in love but are we going to 
spend the rest of our life together 
and the answer was no no no I didn't 
want to he didn't he didn't we didn't 
have the same values and so that Unwound 
very quickly 
and I needed a break at that point I 
needed some space I needed to regroup I 
needed to make sure I was back on board 
with what I was looking for so then 
when I was ready I reached out to you 
again and I'm I'm in the dating realm 
right now nobody particular to talk 
about but but I am back online dating 
and you know I wanna I wanna come back 
to something that you said which is so 
important you know sometimes people 
think about dating and date coaching in 
the okay you know people ask me all the 
time well Bella if I I work with you and 
I meet someone on the third date do I 
just put myself on hold and the answer 
you guys is I and at SDA we look at 
dating in two phases phase one like 
Jody's saying is getting yourself out 
there the right way knowing women that 
are looking for men who your high GHQ 
guy is high in good husband qualities 
right same for men Good Wife qualities 
and then really understanding the red 
flags building your funnel having 
multiple people that you're dating at 
the same time filtering some people are 
going to make it to the second third 
eighth twentieth date and some people 
are going to get sifted out now the goal 
of the funnel is to narrow it down to 
one person who becomes your boo your 
partner your boyfriend your girlfriend 
whatever you want to call it but that 
sort of marks the end of phase one but 
then what happens is we go into phase 
two which arguably is the more important 
phase right now we've got this one 
person now we're going to say is this 
the right person like Jody's saying does 
this person line up with my values do we 
want the same things for example things 
as simple as do we want to live together 
in the same house or do we want to 
maintain two different spaces do we want 
to live the same lifestyle do we want to 
live in the same city what do we want 5 
10 and 20 years later and these are the 
things that we really want to address 
during phase two does this person fit in 
well with my family with my extended 
family with my kids and these are all 
the tires that we want to kick in phase 
two so when people come in I'm like 
there is no love in 90 days there's 
maybe less than 90 days maybe you found 
a prospective candidate but this is a 
process that takes months and years as 
Jody's saying sometimes we have people 
on and they found love on the second 
date and here's Jody who worked with us 
in 2018 and now we're back to 2022 and 
we're taking this on again at a slower 
pace for more than a year really saying 
okay how are we going to measure twice 
and cut one so I want you if you're 
listening to this to understand 
everybody's just like you right we're 
all trying to figure this whole dating 
process out but remember slow and steady 
is what's going to win the race and 
there's no trophy for getting this right 
the first time right dating is a 
marathon it's not a Sprint so I'm so 
glad that you you shared your story with 
us and you're back there in the dating 
pool well how you know what is what are 
some things if people are listening to 
this and they're dating a widow or a 
widower let's kind of flip the the 
script here what would you say what are 
some things that you would say are okay 
to say versus things that like don't say 
don't ask like can you give us any 
sunlight any transparency around that 
because I know nobody wants to say 
anything that's hurtful to somebody on a 
date right right and 
so I think it's important to know that 
frequently I mean I have pictures in my 
house of my husband I have pictures of 
my husband with my kids I have pictures 
of us all together those are really 
special memories and those are going to 
stay in my house whether I you know when 
I remarry they're still going to be in 
the house because my husband my late 
husband is always going to be a part of 
me now that doesn't mean that my heart 
doesn't have room to let somebody else 
in but it's important if you're dating a 
widow or widower know that that person 
is really special to them still and and 
you know I'm assuming they had a very 
you know I had a really positive 
relationship so I'm you know going to 
use that as an example but 
yes Steve is is still a part of me and 
and I want to talk about him and not a 
lot you know usually when I go on a 
first date people always ask you know 
they know I'm a widow 
everybody always asks like well how did 
they die 
is that right people ask that all the 
time and I don't know why people ask 
that 
um 
but they don't ask that should we say 
don't ask let's just say don't I would 
say don't ask that and I say don't ask 
that because my story is so unique that 
people I usually get like these saucer 
eyes because then people don't really 
know what to say and so you may be 
dating a widow or widower that has had a 
traumatic story and so then things get 
really awkward but you know I I like to 
talk about him I don't talk about him 
all the time on a date but you know he's 
gonna come up in conversation just 
because and then there's going to be 
difficult days 
um that we all have and knowing what 
their difficult days are for the person 
that you're dating it could be their 
birthday it could be their anniversary 
it could be the date they died but 
there's these days that just bring up a 
lot of emotion for widows and widowers 
and being sensitive and caring and and 
saying hey I know 
you know this this day is coming up for 
you how can I best support you 
I want to be there for you yeah and 
asking it's okay if you don't know just 
say how can I how can I best support you 
how can I best support you and now I 
love that I love that and I'm curious 
when you're dating do you find a 
difference sometimes you know widows or 
widowers are like well I'd like to date 
someone else who's a widow or a widower 
or dating someone that's divorced do you 
see any differences 
I think what's really hard for me Bella 
and I haven't dated a widower yet and I 
would love to frankly because my 
relationship 
came from a place of commitment and love 
and trust and happiness and we worked 
hard on that and so it's challenging for 
me when I meet people that you know just 
didn't have a great marriage or for 
whatever reason didn't put the effort 
into their marriage and and I it's 
important to me to make sure they've 
worked through that stuff uh before I 
date them because I want them to come to 
the a date with me ready to be fully 
present in themselves and having 
having worked through any past issues so 
so I think it would be really neat to 
date a widower I've tried I'm searching 
Bella okay putting a general APB out to 
all eligible widowers to contact me on 
behalf of beautiful Jody Lavoy I am her 
personal bodyguard here so uh right 
email our site because she's a catch I'm 
telling you man if I was a single man 
I'd be all over dating you so um and 
Joey how 
how did how has dating been for your 
kiddos 
you're dating yeah it's been hard 
frankly 
um they they want me to be happy they 
don't want me to be alone absolutely 
but when they see me dating someone 
they're reminded that they don't have 
their dad and that's what sticks in 
their mind and so 
it just takes time you know my girls 
will take time and now I have two that 
don't really live at home so for them to 
get to know somebody is it's it's gonna 
take time and that's okay and that's 
okay but but yeah that's important for 
people dating widowers and widowers 
widows to know that it's just hard for 
the kids because they don't have that 
person anymore 
yeah 
yeah 
100 and how has 
or how did you 
know 
for widows and widowers how is it 
offended family and for your spouse's 
family 
yeah 
so I would I'm so lucky Bella Steve's 
family has been incredibly supportive 
they ask about my dating they ask you 
know when I was in a relationship they 
would ask about that person they would 
invite him to come through me to to 
Christmas to visit and I never took them 
up on that because that's also special 
time with my girls 
and frankly my kids really did not like 
him and for for valid reasons that 
didn't align with our values 
um 
so so anyway I look forward to 
introducing my in-laws to my future 
person and that could be very weird you 
know for somebody that's dating a widow 
or widower like oh gosh I'm gonna go 
meet your in-laws but it's not weird for 
me 
no because they're still your family oh 
gosh yeah and it sounds like your 
in-laws are amazing and everybody in 
your life wants you to be happy 
they do they really do 
and I want you to be happy and I'm so 
uh profoundly honored like it almost 
makes me teary to be on this journey 
with you the second time around 
um you're just a beautiful soul and I 
know your dating life is going to 
Blossom in the next year I'm feeling 23 
Is your year baby I feel like 
23 and me I like it we're gonna go with 
that 23 is Jody and Jody tell us about 
you know you've done so much work I mean 
to do I've been through the sale of a 
family business and that is no small 
feat and to do what you did and to sell 
the company I I literally like it makes 
like the hair on my arm stand up what an 
incredible move that was Jody has done 
so many amazing things you were the CEO 
of the young entrepreneurs Academy right 
the female strong why yea she helps 
young girls or helped write business 
plans and Pitch them Shark Tank style of 
which I love Jody so much I had my own 
daughter Jaden apply to yea as a 
freshman in high school and she did it 
and it was one of the most amazing 
experiences that she's had and to this 
day she's at the Kelly business school 
in Indiana and I credit so much of that 
to the work that you and the curriculum 
you put together at yea and and your 
work continues to be so Purpose Driven 
tell us what you're doing with coaching 
now 
yes so I am coaching widows in the 
workplace Bella because 
I know my journey was was very difficult 
for me and I learned a lot along the way 
and I want to help other widows who are 
in a similar place be able to be 
successful at work and be able to take 
care of their their family and find time 
for themselves and figure this whole 
thing out of your who your person is who 
you are 
without your person anymore and what 
does that look like and that there is a 
future and I help them find that and 
it's incredibly rewarding work I work 
one-on-one with them via zoom and and 
when I get to the end of a client 
engagement and just reflect on how far 
they've come and you can physically see 
it in their face like the smiles they 
have and the way they carry themselves 
it's just it's incredibly rewarding 
and with your practice is there a good 
time for people to reach out to you for 
coaching 
you mean a good time in their grief 
journey in their grief Journey like 
what's the right like you know for me I 
can say as a dating coach the right 
moment to reach out to a dating coach is 
the is the day where the thought of 
being on a date with someone excites you 
the thought of Finding Love Again 
excites you right we'll never be fully 
healed I don't know that we can ever 
heal from loss right we learn how to go 
on and so when is the right moment for 
someone who has undergone loss a woman 
to reach out to you like is there that 
moment where you're like God this is the 
right time to reach out to me as Jody 
Lavoy your Widow coach yeah and and it 
varies Bella because I've had some 
widows come to me before they're even 
widows because their spouse received a 
terminal diagnosis a couple years ago so 
their grief actually started even though 
they were very hopeful back then and 
they just wanted to set themselves up 
for Success that their family only up 
for Success so you know that's one 
scenario and the other is when you feel 
like you're you know there's more but 
you don't know what that is 
and so if you're a widow out there 
widower 
um that's that's the time 
I love that I mean look at what a 
remarkable human being you are you're 
like the oh I think you were the MVP of 
the week at WGN Radio weren't you that's 
right right yes yes Bella that was fun 
right I mean this is like I'm saying you 
guys this is truly a bad ass human being 
and kind and generous and if you find 
yourself you know wondering after your 
loss like what do I do and let me ask 
you this question we have a lot of 
divorced clients and divorce is also a 
loss right and especially if it wasn't 
at your behest is there you know are do 
you feel like there might be 
commonalities are these people that you 
would also help through the process 
so I would not work directly with them 
because I'm my passion really applies 
with widows but it's still a life 
transition totally so whether that is a 
divorce or a death or your kids going 
off to college or or you're retiring all 
of those are major life Transitions and 
there's there is a lot of commonality 
between all of those 
100 so I you guys we're gonna have I I'm 
gonna put this out there to the universe 
that Jody's out there dating right now 
she will be back on this podcast to be a 
Future Love Story how does that sound 
Jody we're gonna I love it that's great 
as soon as you find your boo the lid to 
your pot you're gonna come on here and 
tell people what it's like is there any 
is there any advice you that we haven't 
asked you for or that's kind of come to 
mind that we haven't talked about about 
dating as a widow or a widower or if 
you're dating someone just any last 
things that I might not have asked you 
gosh we covered so much Bella 
[Music] 
um 
no I think we got it guy we did good 
we got it just be brave 
hire someone to be on the path with you 
whether you're grieving and you need 
purpose as a widow whether you want to 
get out there and have a coach Jody's 
hired us I would tell you to hire her 
there's a whole the world has changed in 
some senses really beautifully in the 
last couple of decades where the 
services like what Jody's doing what 
we're doing they didn't exist 20 30 
years ago right we were all going to be 
washed up and if you were single after 
loss that was it right and now there's 
so many people out there that can help 
you to take that next step so be 
inspired and I hope Jody's story 
inspired you that if you can go through 
losses as deeply profound as she has 
right 
um that you too can find the strength 
within yourself to go forward and to do 
this again so Jody you're the best I 
love view to the moon and back thank you 
for being on here and you will be a 
bookend love story I know it so um and 
where can people find you if they want 
to check out your widows coaching yes uh 
Jody lavoycoaching.com 
I'm and I will put it in the show notes 
as well so thank you my dear and I know 
we're going to toast with a glass of 
wine live soon so for those of you who 
have listened to this episode loved it 
please 
go to Apple go to Amazon give us the 
five stars write what you liked about it 
it means the world to small new podcasts 
like us share it with your friends share 
it on social media send it to somebody 
who has had a loss that needs to hear 
this send it to somebody who you can 
motivate to take that next step to find 
the lid to their pot and maybe just to 
be brave and to know that someday 
they'll be ready so until next week I 
bid you farewell 
