I've learned don't get too excited about 
the pictures you see in 
profiles you get together for coffee and 
you see a person walk into the 
restaurant you go that can't be him it 
doesn't look back her picture at all and 
then 3 minutes later you get a phone 
call where are you I said I'm in the 
restaurant he said told him I guess what 
it was the woman who came by oh I'm 10 
years older than my picture and you know 
I kind of understand that sometime 
because women if they say they're older 
they say they're late 70s or 80 maybe 
they won't receive any invitations from 
EV so I'm not too critical of them but 
both men and women have to be aware that 
the pictures they're looking at may be 
extremely outdated one sent me a picture 
and I looked at I said oh my gosh I got 
to meet her I'm met her the picture she 
sent me was of her daughter 41 years old 
come on both men and women have to be 
ready for 
that 
