the best amount of sex for people is the 
amount you're comfortable with and I 
know that might seem sort of cheeky on 
the one hand but but in fact there are 
some couples who report really high 
sexual and relationship satisfaction and 
we know that sexual satisfaction and 
relationship satisfaction are highly 
correlated one of the strongest 
predictors of divorce are people's sex 
lives and I always think it's it's a 
little entertaining to me when people 
forget that because we say we need to 
think about sex and relationships if you 
sometimes I'll joke with my colleagues 
say if we want to keep families together 
we need to think about 
but in fact the uh our sex lives have a 
major impact on our relationship 
satisfaction and stability and for some 
people it's because we use they use sex 
is a Weather Vein if suddenly if they're 
not having sex they think okay there's 
something else going on in our 
relationship I'm unhappy you're unhappy 
we're working too hard you know whatever 
could be the reality is couples 
fluctuate throughout their life whether 
you have sex once a week or four times a 
week there doesn't seem to be a big 
difference on its impact on relationship 
and sexual 
satisfaction 
