Charlie Capps who is now Holly caps 
Casey because y'all Hallie just got 
married and she's going to tell you the 
story of how she started with one of our 
love Labs I never did date well I did 
what I knew how to do which was I'd meet 
somebody that I was interested in that I 
was attracted to and then I'd stop 
seeing anybody else one of the podcasts 
I had stumbled on was this is 50 and one 
of the things they were talking about 
was dating and that's when they were 
talking about you and I became aware of 
the love lab and of your coaching and of 
Smart dating Academy and then there was 
a certain man named David who came into 
your inbox from the first date it was 
very easy conversation it felt safe and 
it felt right and it has felt safe and 
it has felt right the whole time that is 
David he's the most thoughtful wonderful 
man I have ever met every tribulation 
and every painful dating experience I 
ever went through was worth it to find 
him 
