[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart daters welcome back I hope you've 
had an amazing week today's guest is 
such an awesome human being a friend of 
mine and a dating coach and a 
relationship expert and her name is 
Demona Hoffman damona welcome to the 
Smart dating Academy podcast I'm so 
happy to be here Bella thank you for 
having me I can't believe I feel like 
we've been friends for like a decade 
does that sound right it's about right 
yeah yeah we girl we've been in the 
trenches in the dating coaching trenches 
together oh my God we were just if you 
guys could be a fly on the wall behind 
the scenes here we were talking about 
behind the scenes lives of dating 
coaches that do it all so we had a great 
conversation but for you guys I'm really 
really 
um happy to have Demona here because 
we're going to tackle kind of three 
different 
subjects today and in our way we're 
gonna go kind of fluidly from one to the 
other but we're gonna get geeky we're 
gonna talk about chat GPT and what the 
hell it is and how we're gonna you know 
how this is gonna affect 21st century 
dating we're going to talk about gender 
roles in dating right what is going on 
who should be doing what then we're 
going to talk about empathetic dating 
because let's just say empathy is super 
sexy super hot and we need to get back 
to that place of empathy and it's going 
to make you a more fun and more 
successful data so let's talk about chat 
GPT my friend tell us all the things 
all the things all the things I must 
admit I was a little skeptical when I 
first heard about chat GPT and uh I got 
called for an interview about chat GPT 
and also these like AI generated photos 
and how it was going to impact dating 
and I got really curious at that point 
because whenever we hear about new 
technology and you and I have both 
worked with a number of the dating apps 
you know as an Insider doing content for 
them and looking at their data so I'm 
really interested in using technology to 
our benefit and not just just 
throwing the baby out with the bath 
water and being like I just don't it's 
new I don't like it because I think 
that's our our initial reaction like 
it's going to replace replace our our 
real communication and 
I have landed on the side Bella that 
chat GPT could actually be a very 
powerful tool for dating I don't know 
how I feel about AI generated images I 
think that less so that's a little 
creepy and crazy that's Barry yes and we 
have enough of enough problems with 
catfish and people using fake photos I 
don't even need to deal with pictures 
like over torturing right it's like 
we've got we don't need ai's generated 
photos that make us look like Kim 
Kardashian no the robot Kim Kardashian 
even though very sexy but very obviously 
AI generated but I think we're still 
ai's still in its infancy and I think 
the tools are going to continue to be 
improved but as far as chat GPT when 
it's really meant to be a tool used for 
written communication and so then I 
start thinking about in dating that has 
been the biggest shift 
in dating since I started coaching 
over 15 years ago 
it's really been like 17. but I just say 
over 15 so I can keep my youthful glow 
Bella clearly you're very glowy very 
glowy it's just the lighting it's just 
the lighting but I the biggest change 
that I have seen and I want to get your 
take on this it's it's not actually even 
the dating apps changing the dating 
scene it's communication the way we 
communicate has shifted completely even 
since the time I met my husband online 
we just celebrated our 16th wedding 
anniversary yay 
got a few years on me so I'm trying to 
keep up with you but you know that was 
pretty early on in online dating to me 
I mean we didn't if we think about what 
was different back then and back when I 
even started coaching we didn't we 
didn't text that was not our primary 
method of communication like the the 
first email message that my husband sent 
to me online it was like three 
paragraphs long that has changed the 
we're now in a much more short form 
communication and I started teaching 
this I started teaching classes about 
six years ago I realized I was getting a 
lot of questions on the dates and mates 
podcast about texting how can I text 
more effectively how can I screen and 
filter through my dates on text how can 
I use text and dating and I feel like I 
called it the texting trap that that it 
really was a necessary step in dating 
but also something that was blocking a 
lot of people from getting to the 
ultimate step which is to really have 
true human connection and I feel like 
chat PT could be a tool to unlock that 
step for a lot of people what do you 
think 
how so 
she's skeptical I'm curious 
okay so I was just talking with uh a 
friend in 
um I have this little Mastermind group 
of other coaches and she was saying 
she's doing a keynote and she's very 
analytical and doesn't think of herself 
as very funny even though I think she's 
very funny and Charming so she actually 
put into chat GPT take my keynote take 
this paragraph for my keynote but make 
it funny and make it funny now make it 
less funny and she was able to dial in 
to Source some jokes from chat GPT but 
then to integrate it and make it sound 
like herself and that's what I'm trying 
to encourage my clients and my data 
mates listeners to do is to not it's 
never going to replace human I don't 
want to say never actually I take that 
back in the immediate term it's not 
replacing human connection but could you 
use it as a tool tool to access that 
funny part of yourself to sort of punch 
up your texts or your profile your 
written part of your profile everybody 
has trouble writing their profile and I 
you know I don't I don't think it's 
unethical to use support I mean people 
come to you for help writing their 
profile all the time I don't think it's 
unethical to use a Tech Tool to do that 
it's it doesn't work if you're just 
copying and pasting it right but if you 
use it as a tool and you program it 
correctly I think it could really 
really revolutionize your dating life 
yeah I think to your point the question 
mark in my head it's kind of like having 
somebody take over your online dating 
app for you right it's kind of having 
them Cyrano your texts and so yes you 
can use chat to add humor so the 
question is is your friend used it to 
make sure that it really reflected her 
personality because she's funny now if 
you are not funny right or if you're 
Ultra funny you just have to make sure 
whatever it is that there's congruence 
between how you're using chat GPT slash 
Ai and who's going to show up to the 
date or the phone call or the video date 
because I think we've all had clients 
that are like wow when I was messaging 
this person back and forth it was fun 
and we had playful banter but then you 
meet the person IRL in real life and 
you're like wait who's 
to warm and you're like you know a brick 
wall sitting in front of me and you know 
Bella that people were saying that 
before chat GPT existed 100 
yeah it's already a thing the question 
is how do you integrate it into your 
life and also can you use it as a tool 
to help you get funnier I think all 
dating skills and I know you agree with 
this I think all dating skills are 
learned skills and can be improved with 
the right kind of support training 
education practice 
and you can actually use chat GPT to 
help you in constructing Whittier 
attacks so maybe you use it as a tool to 
get better now but then down the road 
you've implemented that learning and you 
can do it more seamlessly on your own 
exactly it's like augmenting your 
scintillating personality already right 
so use it learn it build it in lather 
rinse repeats exactly and the other 
thing 
I don't know how many of your listeners 
have tried chat GPT yet but it's not an 
absolute and it it's it's you don't 
always get the right it doesn't always 
sound good the first time so I've been 
really encouraging people just to play 
with it and you don't have to use what 
they give you the first time you can 
refresh you can put in a new prompt you 
can add to your prompt and really see 
how the how the text 
evolves depending on what inputs you 
give it but chat gbt it's still it's 
still sort of human programmed right so 
it is both flawed and Flawless at the 
same time and when you really put that 
lens on and you say okay I'm going to 
use this as a tool for dating and I'm 
going to go into play with it and I'm 
going to get curious and then see how it 
how it's able to impact your dating life 
like you might you might find that it's 
it's not giving you things that sound 
like you and like you said then you show 
up on the date and they're like this 
isn't the same person that doesn't help 
you that you can't get through the 
texting trap only to get to the date and 
have the other person be disappointed or 
feel like you are not who you say you 
are but can we use it as a teaching tool 
for ourselves that's the question at 
hand I like that a lot and I think you 
know I've read studies over the last few 
weeks that have showed you know what's 
happened when they let chat GPT respond 
to text in dating apps and chat GPT 
ain't getting many responses back 
because it just it's the words are good 
but contextually tone wise it's just a 
little off a little weird and so I've 
read some of the interchanges I was like 
wow sounds a little sterile we haven't I 
think that there's room to grow for chat 
GPT but yeah I think for now don't think 
the chat GPT can respond to all of your 
dating inquiries at this point because 
the research is showing don't do that so 
really just use it as a tool if you're 
stumped on what to say or see I might 
say this what does chat say I could do 
to be funnier and then I think that 
that's the way to use it for now and I'm 
sure that we'll be having a very 
different conversation about this 12 
months from now probably and the more we 
use it the smarter it's gonna get and 
also I'm very curious as Google starts 
to integrate more of these tools because 
the piece that chat gbt doesn't have it 
has all of the information on the 
internet that it can pull from it 
doesn't have you it doesn't have your 
voice and your sense of humor 
specifically but you know who does 
your Gmail 
exactly exactly into the future 
everybody Welcome To The Future so wow 
so interesting do you anything else on 
chat gbt before we roll out of it into 
something else I think everyone's 
probably 
probably done with us talking about chat 
gbt just go try it just go try it report 
back shoot us notes DM us come into our 
inbox and tell us what you found with 
chat GPT if you do a before and after 
send it to me and I'll post you in my 
story as long as it's postable let's put 
it that way so let's talk about 
let's talk about gender roles in dating 
I mean this is a big topic for everybody 
so what are you seeing right now in your 
in your in your sphere with gender roles 
and dating 
oh this is such an interesting time 
Bella so many things have been shifting 
and I for I should say just right off 
the bat I am a person who has never 
really subscribed to traditional gender 
roles like I think I asked my husband on 
his on our second date uh I was never 
somebody that was shy about approaching 
guys in the bar or what have you 
um but more importantly 
I have always 
believed in equality I'm a feminist in 
the true 
the true definition of the word feminist 
which means that men and women are equal 
um and also non-binary individuals uh 
that you were all equal 
um but there are a lot of societal 
inputs that I think we are coming to 
terms with and I will not get too 
political today but I think you all know 
what I'm talking about when I say that 
there are a lot of 
uh societal beliefs that we're examining 
right now and being forced to come to 
terms with and when we look at just 
what's happened for equality of the 
Sexes over the last 
let's call it 20 years since I kind of 
look at like everything is like before 
dating apps and after dating apps but 
just look looking at the last 20 years 
of in just in terms of equality 
there have been tremendous shifts in the 
number of women graduating from college 
the number of women moving into 
leadership positions the uh um the the 
of financials and uh how much money 
women are earning so a lot of the the 
lovers are being uh evened out but at 
the same time I feel like there's 
there's this like grasping for 
there's no framework for it and so we're 
still holding on to some old ideals 
about gender roles and dating when we 
really need to be examining if they 
apply to our current situation today 
I love that I mean I have a date 
coaching client named Lila who's a 
testimonial on our website and she is 
African-American beautiful meta guy from 
Spain on Match he had a son Lila has a 
daughter they're now married because 
Lila asked him 
to marry her when they had climbed up 
Everest or Kilimanjaro I think it was 
Kilimanjaro and she had a little ring 
and it was a ring that she literally got 
at REI which was like a ring to have 
like when you actually get to the summit 
and in front of this room full of people 
she asked him to marry her I was like 
but that's Lila and Lila is fierce and a 
feminist as you said in the true sense 
of the world and he was like yes and 
they couldn't be happier 
I love that I love that and I I wish I 
wish more people were willing to do that 
because I think these gender norms and 
stereotypes that it's not our fault by 
the way the other fault that we have 
these things programmed but they you 
know we we've seen so many rom-coms and 
read so many fairy tales and and just 
seen different 
different roles modeled for us that what 
I'm asking people to do I know is very 
difficult because it goes against a lot 
of what you have learned but if we're if 
we're going to 
get ahead in all of these these other 
areas of Our Lives we have to be willing 
to examine like even 
even looking at the 
um the institution of marriage 
the reality is that it was a transfer of 
of property essentially it was a woman 
marrying into a family for her the 
livelihood livelihood of her her her 
existing family and her future family 
and it it was that we didn't have any 
power we didn't have the ability to do 
economic power we had no socioeconomic 
power we couldn't own our own property 
we couldn't provide for ourselves and so 
we had to marry for our 
for our livelihood but now we get to 
Mary for all of these other great 
reasons that I know you coach your 
clients to marry or partner for or 
Partnerships right that's why we marry 
some people marry you know because they 
it's religious some people marry because 
they've dreamed about it since they were 
kids some people I have clients that 
have been married four times before they 
come to us and they do the fifth 
marriage right because for some people 
it's just something that they want and 
they desire and to me I'm like I'm going 
to help you find the lid to your pot 
whether you decide you want to get 
married or not doesn't matter to me it's 
all chalk and cheese at the end of the 
day so so 
I love that we're chatting about this 
and I love that things are transforming 
and that women to your point there's 
more women right now in med school and 
law school than than men at this point 
and as we close in on that 83 cents per 
dollar and it's going to happen really 
quickly right there's the shift of I 
make X as a woman now let's say if I'm 
you know heterosexual whatever and 
looking for a guy like he's got to make 
more money than me right because that's 
what's wired into my DNA well not 
necessarily right as if you're making 
your money if he can pay his own way and 
you can pay your own way there's going 
to be a lot more interesting ways of 
coming together in the future and we're 
seeing it already yeah and this is a 
conversation that I I feel like I've 
been having for many years with a lot of 
my female clients who are looking 
for 
marriage to a man that they have these 
beliefs and they they may feel like 
they're Progressive in their gender and 
that they they want all of these things 
that were not available to my mother and 
my grandmother 
they my mother could not be the CEO of a 
company that was not one of the options 
for her and so it's wonderful that now 
that is an option for women today but I 
do hear just what you were saying that 
okay well what are you looking for in a 
partner we always start our programs 
with mindset and I know you you help 
your clients get clear on this too 
because I'm like if I don't know the 
Target that I'm shooting for for I'm 
just like I'm just tossing arrows into 
the air okay for real let's get really 
clear on what you're looking for and a 
lot of times I will hear that I I need 
well I have a master's degree and I make 
this much money so I need to find 
somebody who makes this much or more and 
somebody that has this level of 
Education or higher and I'm like honey 
how much higher are you gonna go like 
what what do you need them to be like 
PhD doctorate like there's a ceiling 
like multiple doctorates where are we 
going from here you're already you're 
all ready achieving at this high level 
but then if we start to unpeel what do 
you what do you want out of life like 
let's let's paint a picture of the life 
that you are building 
and what do you want and what do you 
really need well I I want to make 
partner and I want to be able to lean in 
at work and I want to you know I want to 
be flying all over the country and doing 
deals and I want that for you but then 
let's build your life around that do you 
then need a partner if you also want to 
have kids and you also want to have a 
home that you have to maintain and all 
do you need to have somebody that's more 
on the home front 
and do you need to have somebody that 
supports you emotionally and do you need 
to have somebody that's not threatened 
by the fact that you are doing all these 
things in the world and when we start to 
really look at the future we sometimes 
realize that the Target that we thought 
was set out for us is actually not what 
we want at all that's right it's so true 
we end up looking for things that match 
on paper or write for no good reason and 
I think biology social media the media 
Traditions culture all point us in 
certain ways but if you really sit back 
and think about gosh what makes me 
really really happy and what kind of 
Life do I actually want and need you'll 
start to look at a potential partner 
very differently and you know we I 
always say in 14 years since we've you 
know had Smart dating Academy we've had 
zero divorces in that time because when 
you have someone who's really helping 
sit on the Seesaw on the other side and 
saying to you is that really really 
important with what you need at this 
point it isn't how about we look over 
here right and height is also a really 
big thing right for in the dating world 
girl don't get me started do not 
and okay let's go let's go and at the 
end of the day these are biological 
impulses that were built into us right 
for 200 000 years ago we're we're 
basically humans haven't evolved much in 
the last 200 000 years and so maybe I'm 
like wow I would like I would like to 
marry a caveman that's bigger than me 
whose kind of triangular shape so he can 
protect my Village from Marauders and go 
hunt the Buffalo kill it and bring it 
home so bigger is better right but now 
Flash Forward to 2023 do I need somebody 
who's bigger than me or do I want 
somebody who's bigger than me right and 
for most of us we want someone who's 
bigger than us why maybe it just makes 
me feel smaller it makes me not feel 
heavy whatever the reasons are but 
really 
challenging yourself to say why is this 
so important to me 
oh okay we're gonna get hate mail on 
this height thing but uh we're already 
we're going there 
because I agree with you I agree with 
you uh the the height is the other thing 
that I hear all the time it's like how 
much money how much money does he make 
and how tall is he 
um and then everything else is just 
whatever I'm like emotional intelligence 
uh how about all of these 
problem-solving skills and communication 
conflict resolution no apparently none 
of that but but it's because we haven't 
been asked to examine that until very 
recently and I again I'm always bucking 
the trends I I've never had a thing I'm 
also very short I've never had a thing 
for tall guys so all of you who are 
listening who are like I hate those 
short girls that take the talkers 
I'm not one of them me neither maybe I 
think uh but it it's someone biological 
conditioning but I think it's a lot of 
the second thing that you were talking 
about how do I feel when I'm with this 
person out in the world right and how 
what reactions am I going to get from my 
family my friends if I show up and this 
person is shorter than me and then we 
start doing height math where it's like 
well if I'm 5'4 and then I'm going to be 
wearing three inch heels all the time 
how often are you going to be wearing 
three inch heels okay if I hear this one 
more time 
so I'm with you on that but I I really 
like getting curious about painting the 
picture of your life and what is it 
really going to look like and then also 
figuring out how do you want to feel 
with your partner and 
you know with the height thing I would 
ask a client 
is it about the height or is it that you 
want to feel safe 
is it that you want to feel safe and 
you're correlating height and safety 
because of some old programming that 
maybe yours maybe biological maybe 
societal I don't know but you're 
correlating those two things when they 
may not actually have a connection in 
today's world at all 
that's exactly right and so if you know 
hopefully you're not going to send us 
hate mail on this but just think about 
think about what it means to you right 
I'm five two and a half my husband is 
five five when I do drag out those three 
to four inch heels it's rare let me tell 
you and if I do yeah I'm a little taller 
than him he doesn't care and I don't 
care right I mean would it be nice to 
have someone who's six feet tall and 
five inches taller than me sure why not 
but at the end of the day it is what it 
is right I got a lot of other stuff 
I I sorry tall guys I'm I'm not here for 
it I don't like the big differential 
it's not as comfortable for me but my 
husband's five ten so 
it's kind of in the middle I don't know 
but it it it literally wasn't even a 
factor on 
uh it was not anywhere on the list it 
was just and and we don't we don't have 
to get too deep into this but I think we 
think a lot about the packaging that 
people come in and what skin color they 
have what hair color what eye color what 
weight are they going to be and none of 
that matters and a lot of that stuff 
changes it all changes right they may 
have no hair after 16 years of marriage 
right I'm here to tell you 
they may have no hair and you have to be 
you have to not be in love with that 
shell you have to be in love with the 
person that's on the inside 
if we do nothing else dear listener 
through this it's at least make you 
curious 
at least make you try to do something 
different in last week's episode it 
called seven things you can change right 
now to rock your dating life one of the 
things I told you guys to do if you 
listened is play the game called Three 
Blind Mice pick three people where you 
push your parameters out and look at 
people who sound good sound nice they 
may be different they may have a 
different skin color they're a different 
height they're in a different zip code 
than you ever imagined pick three people 
that you wouldn't normally date start 
messaging them maybe with chat GPT just 
start messaging them and challenge 
yourself to at least do a phone call or 
a video date with this person and find 
three things that you like or have in 
common with them so really trying to 
push your boundaries out so if we've 
made you even a little bit curious about 
huh maybe I could you know adjust on 
that a little bit job well done Demona 
job well done Bella I I agree with you 
and I love that exercise because what it 
does when we we create challenges and 
games for ourselves it gets us out of 
our head and it gets us out of that 
programming that we may not even realize 
we're walking through again and again 
and again until you end up at the same 
place and you're like wait why do I 
always date people who are unavailable 
why do I always date people who cheat 
why do I always date people who make me 
feel like this because so many times we 
don't get curious like you were saying 
and and really slow the process down I 
know you're also a slow slow dating Slow 
Love fan 
slow it down and get curious and use use 
all of these experiences as a as a sort 
of testing ground as a learning as a 
learning opportunity both about the 
other people but also about ourselves 
and if maybe Chad GPT didn't speak to 
you before but I love your idea of try 
the chat GPT with the three blind mice 
because then the stakes are low we've 
just put so much pressure on ourselves 
and so much pressure on each of these in 
interactions to be the thing to be the 
person and sometimes that person is not 
the person but that that nugget of 
wisdom that you gain is the thing that 
unlocks your future 
exactly exactly and if you guys have 
been listening to this podcast for the 
last year you know when clients come 
back to tell their love stories on those 
episodes you guys love it's some sort of 
a tweak that happens right but it all 
starts with how we're thinking about it 
oh I can't date anybody who lives three 
hours away from me no way Jose oh I 
can't date anybody who's exactly the 
same height as me up we turn down one 
inch and up there goes your last first 
date here you go so I hope that this is 
getting you curious about gender roles 
and speaking of are there any other 
things that you're seeing in in the 
whole gender roles World in your 
practice 
well another hot button issue is we've 
been talking about women making more 
money and this the dating getting faster 
because of tools like chat gbt and 
because we're texting you can send a 
quick text to someone a lot a lot faster 
than you know in the olden times when we 
used to do phone calls with every single 
person and so this the speed of dating 
is increased the volume of dating is 
increased and that ends us up in a place 
where like dating it's expensive today 
and with inflation 
it's it's real like if you're listening 
and feeling like the crunch of of dating 
finances it it it's definitely real uh 
so I'm seeing a big shift I'm curious if 
you're seeing it too around 
this conversation of who pays for a date 
and what does that mean like if someone 
offers to split I would say I started 
hearing about five years ago this idea 
of 
going dutch I don't know hopefully 
that's not a 
it's not euphemism for something else 
but 
uh you know splitting the check yeah 
that 
um that was kind of a question five 
years ago and I see it trending much 
more among the daters in my program you 
too same 100 in fact we always counselor 
our clients to ask to split share pay 
their share whatever it is because at 
the end of the day I'm like if you went 
out with a girlfriend or a guy friend 
would you expect them to pay for you 
no you wouldn't right and maybe if they 
treated you last time you might decide 
you want a treat but this expectation of 
someone needing to pay for you I think 
is going to be a bygone at a certain 
point because with the frequency to your 
point of dating it can get really 
expensive and I know women will always 
say but I spend so much more money I get 
my hair blown out I get a manicure a 
pedicure I might get my makeup done 
whatever it is and then there's Ubers 
back and forth I mean at the end of the 
day what I would tell you is 
you don't have to spend all that money 
do a zoom date right kick the tires you 
all know I always say crazy can't hide 
for more than 10 minutes if somebody is 
truly banana pants you're gonna catch 
that on video so and do that from home 
rather than right rather than you know 
having to suffer through and pay for 
half of a date where you're like oh my 
God I could have just had a Reese's 
Peanut Butter Cup at home and been way 
happier than being here at this point so 
yeah 
um so yeah the money thing is a big deal 
and what I also want to tell you is if 
you're a woman out on a date with a guy 
right and if he lets you pay don't be 
dismayed by that and don't think that 
he's not that into you if he lets you 
pay right a lot of guys are writing a 
lot of checks to date on a daily basis 
and if you offer to pay and he lets you 
it's okay to pay your share right and 
I've seen marriages happen where that 
happened on the first date with the 
female client of mine and all of her 
friends are like dump him if he really 
liked you you can't be with anyone cheap 
and I was like 
listen to me not to them right not the 
peanut gallery and they're now happily 
married right she found out that over 
the course of several days he's a single 
dad his wife was making no money and his 
daughter wanted to go to NYU and he was 
living on an engineer's salary right so 
here's a man who's really trying to save 
up to send his only daughter to her 
dream School suddenly her my client's 
perspective changed on it right I was 
like give it a chance be curious see 
what happens 
and it could even be a test I mean I 
definitely have some male clients that 
that are like I don't 
I don't want to feel like I'm doing all 
the work in this relationship so to me 
it means something if she offers to pay 
or offers to split that tells me about 
who she is and her integrity and her 
character character exactly exactly so I 
I'm okay with the splitting now I and I 
promise you if you listened if you go 
back on dates and mates like three years 
ago I think I was like guys just pick up 
the check 
one thing I love about dating it's 
always changing and evolving right 100 
and I still do tell guys look it's baked 
into women's DNA there's a lot of 
programming if you can pay do it it will 
always get you bonus points still but 
women offer to pay and be okay with 
paying your share at least so so I must 
have some yeah let's have some more 
creative dates as well because sure 
you're gonna be pissed off if you're 
going out for you know four star steak 
dinners every first date and you're you 
know dropping bananas but people do it 
because they're like well I want to 
impress the person and a quick story I I 
went out with a guy right before I met 
my husband actually I went out with this 
guy we had a first date it was okay and 
we went on a second date and we were 
walking around we went to Wokcano which 
like a kind of mid-range Asian fusion 
restaurant and we're walking around uh 
this sort of Entertainment District and 
he stops in front of the steakhouse and 
he goes when I know you better I'll take 
you here and I was like hilarious no you 
won't because we won't be going here 
game over I was so offended I was so 
offended like oh I'm just not I'm not 
like steak worthy yet like honey I could 
buy my own steak I don't I do not need 
this from you but it really did tell me 
something about 
um who he was that he would make that 
comment and I think thing not a speak 
thing people I know right have your 
mental filters on just don't say 
anything 
or don't even think it it's just it's 
anyways but you know that was an olden 
times 
when when we we did have much more uh of 
a framework 
a traditional framework for who pays and 
who asks and how how it's supposed to go 
and I just I love that we're in this 
space I feel like there's so much more 
opportunity for women women have so much 
more Choice yeah than they did even one 
generation ago but of course with more 
Choice comes more responsibility and I 
think that's the thing that we're really 
feeling the crush of right now in modern 
dating is we we're on the push in 
everything and you know in our in our 
professional life and you know with our 
family 
politically there's just so much 
pressure on everything and then when we 
add dating to it we're like 
I don't have to do so much in dating but 
as you've demonstrated Bella when you 
when you lean into your dating life and 
you get curious and you you take the 
learnings that are there the results you 
get are so much better and I think 
sometimes we lose sight of the the 
result that we want that relationship 
when we're in the thick of the the 
learning part you're so right you're 
absolutely right well you know this 
leads us perfectly into our next 
mini topic within this of 
empathetic dating tell us what that 
means to you 
so remember when I was talking about the 
speed of dating increasing and the 
volume of dating increasing the other 
byproduct of that wonderful opportunity 
that we have is that dating has really 
become more transactional and I'm sure 
you're seeing this too totally when 
you're sorting through so many people 
and you're having so many conversations 
on top of the crush of all of the other 
communication that you have to deal with 
with you know zoom and slack and email 
it it makes us 
a little it's it's sucked out some of 
our empathy and I'm not even going to 
talk about Twitter and the impact of 
that sucking outer the Twitter the 
Twitter but we we really are in a period 
where I feel like we've been strangely 
lacking empathy you would think that 
coming through covid would make us more 
empathetic but because of the isolation 
I think we've we've gotten away from 
that and I'm on a mission Bella to bring 
the empathy back to dating 
I love that I love that and I think it's 
so crucial right because it makes dating 
first of all you become a hell of a lot 
more attractive when you're an 
empathetic dater right and I think it's 
crucial in every relationship that we 
have right whether it's a work 
relationship whether it's with your 
partner it's with the neighbor it's with 
your kids or whether it's the person 
that's sitting across from you and 
instead of coming from a place of 
judgment just say okay what could this 
person be feeling right now what have 
they been through and if you do my 
favorite term listen to understand 
right empathy drives listening to 
understand versus listening to respond 
so much of dating is listening to 
respond oh if he says this let me get 
into my head and think of a goal cool 
fun story about you know my hot girl 
summer or whatever it is it's like no 
instead 
continue to be super present and really 
listen to what he's saying to understand 
him because at that point you will find 
another nugget like a good journalist to 
dig deeper to get more information and 
to make the date more fun for you 
yeah more fun for both of you right but 
nobody wants to have these boring 
transactional dates anymore we're done 
with that and it's just not sustainable 
at the volume that most people are going 
on dates today it's not sustainable so I 
love I love that phrase listen to 
understand and also kind of bringing 
back something you mentioned earlier 
this curiosity I try to get my clients 
to really be curious on the date and to 
be in the moment and that shifts that 
shifts everything where it's not does 
this person like me and what do I need 
to say to get them interested how much 
longer is this day going to go on but 
you really stay in the moment and and 
focus on connection 
and sometimes it's there sometimes it's 
not there but if you're coming from a 
place of empathy then you're not going 
to carry around also any sense of guilt 
like a lot of times 
uh my clients come to me saying I know 
that this isn't right this this person 
is not my person but I don't want to 
upset them I don't want to disappoint 
them we already made a date for next 
week and I feel bad yeah and I think 
it's the wrong kind of empathy to say 
okay I feel bad so I'm just gonna go on 
this date because I already said I would 
and if you know in your heart it's not 
right actually the most empathetic thing 
that you can do is to let that person 
know and we get so afraid of that 
the discomfort that comes with that 
interaction that will we just end up 
ghosting we'll say we hate ghosting and 
then but then to the person that we 
don't we're not interested in we'll just 
go with them and that's not empathetic 
at all no no it isn't and we have 
something that we have our clients do 
called the goodbye sandwich and we 
customize it for every interaction where 
they you know want to not go on the date 
maybe they have to break up with 
somebody but there is a direct and kind 
approach to to doing this kind of thing 
and you're right you know sometimes the 
more empathetic thing to do and people 
ask well if somebody sent me a message 
do I like Bella when I launch with these 
new photos in my new profile do I have 
to respond to everybody and I'm like no 
you don't I need your energy in the game 
for the people that you're in interested 
in right and well isn't it mean to not 
respond I'm like no if you think about 
it from a standpoint of empathy if I 
sent out five messages to guys right and 
this is how I run my practice what would 
I want to do if I sent out five messages 
I could wake up in the morning to let's 
say two potentially negative scenarios 
we're not going to talk about the 
positive one right now we'll say either 
I could read five 
I just don't think we're a match but 
thanks so much for playing I could wake 
up to five of those or I could just wake 
up to an empty inbox right from my 
vantage point I would probably just 
rather go well maybe he was busy I could 
tell myself another story but I'm not 
hearing five hard no's right then and 
there right so I look at it with that 
that's an empathetic thing to do is if 
you're not interested you don't have to 
respond 
the very first opening Salvo of a 
message if you've been corresponding 
with this person hell if you've been 
dating them that's not it this is just 
the very first message agree I say I 
treat those first messages as well like 
coins in the fountain you toss it in 
it's like it's you made a wish and if it 
doesn't come true it was just a penny 
are you gonna cry over a penny and if 
your wish comes true then great you got 
your wish but otherwise it's just a coin 
and a fountain I love it that's great 
and thank you and it gets a lot of women 
prior to Bumble even I've been saying to 
women take control of your dating 
Destiny initiate messages it's not going 
to upset the whole chivalry apple cart 
if you send an if you initiate a message 
because it's just a coin and Fountain 
it's not even really an interaction just 
yet and so saying that has gotten a lot 
of women you know particularly some of 
my clients who are older who 
didn't really grow up with online dating 
and this is all kind of new and like 
wait but isn't the guy supposed to 
approach me and this is a whole 
different different thing the rules are 
different and when you're dealing with 
technology as we were talking about 
earlier in chat GPT you have to program 
it in a certain way and you can't think 
of the old rules applying to the new 
technology so just sending out those 
messages even as a woman we see I'm sure 
you've seen this data at match and 
elsewhere as well that when women 
initiate messages according to OkCupid 
data they the conversations last twice 
as long as when men initiate the 
messages and that's because women are 
not initiating enough messages 
well and and this is the thing I've had 
guys tell me geez it's like Christmas in 
July to get a message from a woman 
directly a few episodes ago I had 
sadaf's love story she sent a message to 
a guy that she thought looked 
interesting they're now engaged right so 
it's okay ladies again this gets back to 
the gender roles thing right get off the 
sidelines and it's okay to send that 
first message it's okay to suggest 
taking it to a video date it's okay to 
say hey do you want to grab a drink 
everything is okay and isn't that 
beautiful 
it is beautiful and I 
I I I love that you're giving your 
listeners permission also to be in touch 
with what they want because I feel like 
so much of let's call it old dating so 
much of old dating is like this is what 
you're supposed to do this is how it's 
always been done and this is Isaac and 
he will zag and that's that's the script 
we're running and I just I encourage my 
clients and my listeners to to embrace 
this new time where we get to write our 
own scripts we get to use our own chat 
gbt right we get to write our own 
scripts and if you do it from that point 
of empathy that place of empathy both 
for the other person and for yourself 
like how does it feel yourself to not to 
not feel like you're in control of 
anything that's happening in your dating 
life to be like waiting for the messages 
to come in or you know going on these 
days that you don't want to go on or 
waiting for somebody to ask you out when 
you're stuck in this texting trap going 
back and forth 
how does that feel for you 
it's it doesn't feel very empathetic to 
me for your inner soul right so if you 
can employ a little bit more empathy and 
know that everybody wants the same thing 
we all want to have real connection we 
all one thing that hasn't changed is we 
all need love that is a core need that 
is on Maslow's hierarchies our hierarchy 
of needs we we need Community we need 
love we need support we need we need 
partnership and it looks different for 
everybody 
but 
our job in this hole 
shepherding people through love is 
really to get folks clear on what they 
want and then how to communicate that 
and and move through the process and we 
have all these tools now I think that's 
very exciting 
well Demona you're awesome thank you so 
much for enlightening us with your wit 
and wisdom today it's always such a 
treat to be with you how can people find 
out more about you 
well I do the data mates podcast every 
Tuesday woohoo 
um I gotta have you back 
sometime soon 
and yeah we uh we do just this we talk 
about the modern challenges of dating 
and how to work through them we do 
headlines of the week we do interviews 
and we do uh q a every single week and 
then I also I'm on Instagram at damona 
Hoffman on Twitter on Facebook you can 
send me questions for the show or 
interact there or you can go to dates 
and mates.com where you can listen to 
the podcast and also get my profile 
starter kit it's a free program for a 
limited time only that'll help you write 
your dating profile before I am replaced 
by chat GPT 
well Demona thank you you're awesome and 
we will definitely have you back sooner 
than later thank you Bell I appreciate 
it 
