[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find l 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to the podcast I am so 
excited to have with me a new friend 
that I met this year named Wendy Sloan 
and I met her because I was on her 
podcast and loved her and her vibe so 
much that I brought her on the podcast 
to listen to you because I think that 
there's so much about Wendy that you 
will find relatable and her story and 
our conversation today so for those of 
you who don't know who she is she's a 
former TV producer for Phil donu and 
Heraldo then she had a radio show called 
what's up with Wendy and then that small 
thing called covid happened and she took 
that radio show and took it into 
something that is so help full and 
useful to so many of you and it's a 
podcast called divorce doesn't suck so 
Wendy welcome to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast we're so happy to have 
you thank you so much thank you for 
having me and thank you for everything 
that you said just now oh you're so 
welcome well tell us about 
you wow where did you from the beginning 
how did you your marriage and your work 
and how you are where you are today okay 
you got it so I moved to New York City 
after I graduated from college and I 
worked for a modeling agency that was my 
very first job in television for elite 
Casablancas so that was John Casablancas 
um that was really a funfilled career 
and then but I really wanted to be 
either a reporter or I wanted to be a 
television producer or being a soap 
opera and believe it or not I did get 
four callbacks for a soap opera oh 
proper called loving so that would have 
I think taken my life in a whole 
different way but it didn't happen so I 
wound up being a television producer and 
first for Phil Donahue who is probably 
one of the greatest humans out there and 
haraldo who is also one of the greatest 
humans out there um if anyone ever had a 
chance to work for them it was just 
magical it was just it was like having 
second families I mean we're all still 
close as producers or all still talk all 
the time and um it was a wonderful a 
Wonderful World it was so fun in New 
York City and I covered John B Ramsey 
the OJ Simpson trial um being in 
television at that time 
was amazing so I had a full career um I 
to just um during that was during my 20s 
so I chose to just like focus on my 
career date um I had a ball dating but 
it was always just like I'm just dating 
just to date it was never I was looking 
for a husband or I was so focused on my 
career and I think that's one of the 
things I I tell people too enjoy your 
20s you know like I know it works for a 
lot of people to get married young or 
you know for your high school sweetheart 
and all that sounds magical but I loved 
being single in my 20s and focusing on 
my career because then you have the 
whole second part of your life to to get 
married be a mom and and focus on that's 
just my personal opinion so then I was 
you know getting into my 30s and I was 
kind of feeling like oh I want to you 
know I want to have kid I wanted to have 
kids my career was very important to me 
but I always want knew I was going to be 
a mom sure so I got engaged and I met I 
got married in 1999 I was 33 years old I 
had my first baby at 34 my second baby 
at 35 a year apart um and so having kids 
in your biological clock was a big 
impetus for you to get married I'm 
guessing I I would say that now I don't 
think I was thinking that at the time 
totally but I knew that in you know I 
was in my 30s and I was worried so I was 
like oh you know kids were very yes yes 
I guess yeah like I got to get out of 
this game of musical TR yes correct um 
and I was I was burnt out too for my 
career I mean I Heraldo I was doing two 
shows a week I was doing his news show 
and his celebrity show and it was a lot 
and when you're a television producer 
you burn both ends I mean on the clock 
247 it's not a job I don't think you can 
do and be a mother full-time mother at 
least you're on call literally I mean 
I've done enough TV to know what TV 
producers phones are like all day all 
night yes if the story breaks you got 
you go and you have to and and that was 
and that was wonderful in my 20s to be 
able to do that so um yes so I had my 
kids and shortly after 911 we left New 
York City because even though I covered 
so many stories there was nothing like 
911 and I just felt so I just the city 
felt different to me and and I also had 
you know two kids at home a brand new 
baby and a you know a year plus old 
little guy and my hormones were like I 
got to get my kids out of here and I 
have to move so I only knew Connecticut 
because of Phil and so I Phil Donahue so 
I we looked in Connecticut and next 
thing you know we're we have a house in 
Connecticut so my little family we were 
we were now not New Yorkers anymore we 
were Connecticut people and I loved it I 
mean I love the small town feel I love 
that the kids had a big backyard to go 
to I still wonder and we talk about it 
my kids and I what if I raised you in 
New York City how different would our 
life be how different would I be I mean 
it was but you know I have the greatest 
friends in the world from that little 
town and I wouldn't change it for the 
world but I do think like how different 
it would have been and now my kids are 
in the city I'm like H so I'm living my 
life now through through their eyes and 
seeing how they are in the city but 
anyway so then I got very involved I I 
did not work anymore and that you 
stepped out of TV you stepped out of 
work period completely to be a 
stay-at-home mom and that was huge for 
me because I you know I dreamed of just 
being a stay-at-home mom and I had my 
career and I felt very fulfilled which 
is another big point that I want to get 
across like I was fulfilled in my career 
I felt like I had accomplished a lot and 
I had done everything I set out to do 
and I was I had put that to bed so I got 
you were done I was done I I I thought I 
was done so I dove deep into my kids 
life and I was the team mom for 
everything and I was in the PTC and you 
you know the room mom coordinator and I 
went to the lunchroom Duty and I wiped 
the tables down and hung out with the 
kids and I was always at every one of 
their Sports and their games and um like 
literally on the field being team mom so 
that was great and play groups and you 
know getting to know my community and 
and and it was wonderful and then I got 
to the point where I was like hm this I 
think this was 2010 I want to say I said 
I need something for Wendy now too so I 
met somebody out to dinner and he was 
like oh I own a a radio station I said I 
want a radio show oh you do huh so I 
went bulldozed right into it just like I 
did when I moved to New York City and I 
kept hounding them and I actually did 
have a radio show with Danny badui at 
the end of when I when Heraldo was over 
I did do I had a radio show with him so 
it was called Big 105 with paric family 
Danny bonuchi Danny bonuchi start 
remember him and that was really fun but 
that didn't last very long so I um I had 
some radio experience even though I said 
I would never do radio it was no not 
after being a television producer so 
he's like okay what do you want to do 
and I said I'll think about it I said I 
want to do a show like I did for Heraldo 
for his celebrity news show celebrities 
newsmakers authors um you know series of 
things and all that so he goes okay can 
you go on the air in two weeks so I go 
two weeks I didn't have any guests I had 
nothing I I mean I still had contacts 
and stuff but not a ton so I called 
Heraldo and I said could you be my first 
guest I'm getting this radio show and 
then I called our you know the executive 
producer I said I need a name I need a 
song and we came up with what's up with 
Wendy which is so yeah so haraldo was my 
first guest literally on the radio I was 
like dead silence like I was it was such 
a bad interview thank God for him but I 
was like I didn't know how to talk I I 
was like kind of like and you know 
you're you're here you are you're hiding 
behind a microphone no one's seeing you 
but it was really not great at first 
I'll just say that but um but anyway it 
La it did my show did really well so I 
kept it all the way until covid and then 
I was kind of getting to the point where 
I was bored and it's wonderful 
interviewing celebrities and it's all 
fun and wonderful and I would go to the 
studio once a week and I could and it 
was still I was only once a week wow so 
an hour show and I still was able to be 
it literally started I went in at 10 
o'clock so my kids were already at 
school and I was done in an hour and it 
was all fun and I'm you know wonderful 
wonderful guest I mean Henry 
Winkler I mean Angela Basset the guests 
that I had on the people Vanessa 
Williams the magnitude of guests that I 
could get on that show and just so you 
know Heraldo was my second guest my SE 
the second anniversary the third 
anniversary Monica Potter co-hosted with 
me um Phil came on so it was it was a 
great show but I was bored so I gave it 
up during Co kind of kept it around 
turned turned it into a podcast wasn't a 
podcast it was two all over the place if 
you searched what's up with Wendy you 
you you know how a podcast works so then 
decided something that I always wanted 
to do is help people in 
divorce because when I got divorced 
there was no podcast there I didn't know 
about divorce coaches I didn't know half 
the things that I more than half the 
things that I know now I felt very alone 
I was getting divorced nobody else in my 
town was getting divorced or that I knew 
of so I had there was this one girl I 
reached out to I said you one girl I 
think we have something in common and 
we're lifelong friends now but there was 
really nothing nowhere for me to turn 
which is one thing like I didn't really 
get to take a breath I I dove right into 
something that I didn't have any clue or 
know anything about and what year was 
that that you got divorced let's back up 
for a second I got divorced in 
2008 oh in 2008 before you started your 
show got it started I started everything 
yeah I got divorced I mean I was I was 
just out of being a television producer 
and um you know just you know my kids I 
was into my marriage nine years that's 
it so yeah there was no radio show at 
that point there was you know I was just 
a stay-at-home mom that must have been 
hard to decide is a stay-at-home mom 
like I'm done but it sounds like it was 
the right thing for you I didn't even 
decide I just woke up you know went to 
marriage counseling I just was like one 
day I just said I'm done like I think 
I'm I'm just I'm done and I that's the 
thing I really didn't think about it I 
didn't dwell on it I didn't map it out I 
just was like I'm 
done and you know we didn't it wasn't 
the kids it was Financial it was I felt 
like I was kind of like trapped I felt 
like I I just wasn't in I just I think I 
just wasn't in love anymore and I just 
did it 
yeah were you the primary bread winner 
at the time nope no okay that happens to 
a lot of women longer term when they 
become the Breadwinners and you know 
when they're substantially out earning 
or have a stay-at-home dad that I see a 
lot of that in our 
practice the post women getting back out 
there and how do I rigate this so I 
don't end up there again I was not the 
bread winner I was out of my career for 
a long time I was Mom and you know I was 
kind of I was a wife and I was a mom and 
I did I kind of lost Wendy in there a 
little bit so um but the driving force 
to me was those two my two beautiful 
children I was I was just going to keep 
going and I that's you know one piece of 
advice is I didn't stop and take a 
breath I didn't map out I didn't 
research attorneys 
big big big you have to find the right 
attorney I did not I went through so 
many attorneys um and I that that hurt 
me financially a 
lot I can't even imagine how tough that 
is so you basically and busy raising 
little kids that like you know they're 
first they come first over everything 
so I put you know they were at the the 
it it was very difficult 
right right right um so you wake up 
you're like okay I'm done I'm ready to 
unplug and you just jumped off the deep 
end or the diving board at that point 
yeah I dove yeah so your advice is don't 
do that have a plan have a plan you know 
do your research I mean you know I 
didn't even know like there's so many 
different laws in different states and I 
didn't know I felt like I was in a rough 
to get this done because the attorney 
was like pressuring me and I was like I 
could have taken my sweet time like a 
lot of things happen after 10 you know I 
was only married nine years after 10 
years there's a lot more financial gain 
so you know the lawyers know that so why 
wasn't I told that why wasn't I told a 
lot of things why wasn't why didn't I go 
and research because I just I didn't 
know because there was no Outlets out 
there for me to to for me to find out 
about about nobody was getting divorced 
now there's a thous I would have done a 
thousand things different yeah I'm happy 
I'm healthy my kids are amazing you know 
we got through it and there was you 
know it it's it's a I have a wonderful 
life I'm so glad was easy no but I look 
back now I wouldn't change a thing 
because I wouldn't be where I am today I 
wouldn't be I'm very fulfilled I'm 
peaceful I go to sleep at night I'm 
happy my life is full so I wouldn't 
change a thing yeah zero regrets zero 
regrets and another thing is I didn't 
date during this time I'm not saying I 
didn't go out to dinner with a man and I 
didn't have my kids never met anyone 
they never knew I mean I had you know 
two weekends free a month 
barely and you're exhausted from being a 
full-time mom for sure all their 
activities and you know I had this big 
house to take care of too and on top of 
it a thousand people in my life getting 
divorced which you know they always put 
a thousand people in so I um 
yeah and when you say a thousand people 
getting divorced it's like as the years 
a thousand people in my life you know 
there was the lawyers there was the 
mediators there was the trials There Was 
You 
Know paper the paperwork and the things 
that you have to do and you know just 
there was a lot of people in our life at 
that time I can imagine right it was it 
feels like a circus of people it feels 
like a zoo yes a crazy zoo that I just 
wanted to get out and I felt very caged 
oh my gosh so you were like I'm just 
going to be me hang out with my kids and 
now a decade passes by and now we're in 
2020 so you you start podcast and now 
how does dating look to you it's the co 
landscape now okay so during Co I was so 
blessed um well I was blessed because I 
had my kids home so they were in college 
and I got to have them home so that's 
like extra bonus of time that you 
wouldn't have normally got with your 
kids and 
unfortunately um right before Co I lost 
my father so and he was my favorite 
person in the whole planet so that was 
20 the end of 2019 and so my there all 
the first and I had my kids there for my 
grief and and so that was you know so co 
co co we kind of just hunkered down you 
know I took good care of myself I walked 
every day I worked out I I just um 
grounded myself again and you know 
homecooked meals and life was different 
and then I decided I'm gonna do 
something that I've always wanted to do 
and make a difference in the divorce 
community and support people going 
through divorce and I was like I said to 
my friend Jack who helps me with the 
podcast I said we're not going to do 
whats up with Wendy anymore because it's 
really not a podcast and you were right 
because he kept saying it's not a 
podcast it's really not I'm like it is 
it is but I have all these great people 
these great celebrities but it's not a 
podcast it's a radio show so we came up 
with um divorce doesn't suck and I began 
I had a wonderful intern then and we 
just I wasn't crazy about the the name 
but now it's like it's it's here and 
it's actually the podcast is doing 
really well so I'm proud of it and it's 
my baby and um yeah so but but back to 
back to the dating back to the dating 
part which I don't really talk about 
much um I said I would date when my kids 
went to college I'll really start dating 
and So Co happen so you're not really 
dating and I had lost my dad and I said 
and as I said when my daughter goes to 
college and then they were all home and 
so when they went back to school and Co 
was kind of I mean is co really gone I 
don't know but you know we're back out 
in the real world and I said I'll start 
dating so I went on the dating app and I 
met somebody uh 800 miles away oh wow 
okay so it was the app like for me I 
wanted I wanted the and I've never 
publicly talked about this so this is 
the first time because it's 
you I wanted the fairy tale you know I 
wanted the Cinderella's Story I wanted 
to be like out there walking my dog and 
I get tangled in a leash with somebody 
as other dog and I meet somebody or I 
bumped I wanted the fairy tale I didn't 
want to I met him on a dating app 
however I did he was 800 miles away and 
we could have been the fairy tale if 
this was a Hallmark movie correct 
however 800 miles away and um we 
facetimed immediately the next day and 
we dated for one month online like 
FaceTime movie Nights I mean you can do 
this long distance to me and and 
actually to me long distance is better 
it works for me because I don't need I 
I've been I can take care of myself I've 
been alone for so long that I don't know 
if I want somebody with me 247 or I 
don't know if I want someone to this is 
my space and I just got a brand new 
beach house like five months ago and I'm 
living my best life so I don't know if I 
want to bring somebody into I don't know 
I guess time will tell so we dated um 
for a month and he's like I'm coming I'm 
coming to see you and I said okay one 
date one dinner one dinner he's like 
well I'm staying with friends in New 
Jersey so one dinner he said I'll take 
as much time or as little time as you 
will give me so this is after a month of 
FaceTiming every day yeah yeah a little 
probably a little bit more than a month 
FaceTiming having date nights watching 
movies FaceTiming talking all the time I 
really felt like I knew this person and 
then we met and um no one ever came to 
my house no one ever picked me up at my 
house and he stayed for 14 
days so we had this amazing love story 
for two years long 
distance and then love wasn't the 
problem distance was the problem yeah so 
um that's that's in a in a little corner 
of my of my life right now so I I don't 
even 
know how I feel one way or the other 
about that and so now I'm stuck with um 
well I'm here he's there what do I do I 
don't really want to get on a dating app 
because it's not what I Envision my life 
to be I'm perfectly happy being 
alone 
[Music] 
um want someone I don't 
know okay well that's really the 
question right you're happy on your own 
are typically wired to want the lid to 
their pot they want companionship now 
that companionship can look different 
for different people so what in your it 
sounds like you don't want someone who 
needs to live next door to you 
correct so what are you looking for now 
I don't tall kind 
tall 
kind 
um 
romantic mhm I want the romance I don't 
need you to send me flowers just bring 
me one flower go pick it like I want 
old-fashioned 
romance does that sound like people do 
that 
anymore yeah people do that for sure the 
question is I need passion and and and 
just I need someone to to add to my life 
and make it you know cuz my life is 
pretty I had to pretty pretty 
great that's amazing and that's such a 
good place to be when you're dating this 
person that's why I call them the lid to 
your pot your pot is complete but a lid 
that fits just makes the perfect acutron 
to the pot right makes it more versatile 
right gives you more options to cook 
things differently and I always said 
this like I'll know it I'll know it when 
I when I meet it I'll know it I'll just 
know yeah I think a lot of people think 
that right and what that is to some 
extent not to burst the bubble here is 
what you're looking my bubble when you 
say you're looking for I just I know it 
when I'll see it what that means is 
you're looking for somebody that feels 
familiar to you so much of chemistry is 
familiarity and now the question to to 
ask yourself is is familiarity what I 
need because I've done that before right 
and so when we feel overwhelming 
chemistry with someone it is there's a 
lot of familiarity at the core of that 
nobody's talking about this except me 
but this is really why we feel so drawn 
to certain people it's like oh my God I 
spent one night with him and I I felt 
like I'd known him for a lifetime I'm 
like you have he was your ex and your ex 
and your 
ex well now that you say it like 
that however that person was nothing 
like my ex right and and to back it up 
my ex and I are now F my ex-husband and 
I are now friends and we do communicate 
we you know there's a lot of things we 
could have done differently on on both 
of our ends but we we do communicate now 
and talk and I think that's wonderful 
for the kids even though I think the 
kids think it's weird 
even though they're grown kids um 
because we've been apart for so long so 
it's like oh Mom and Dad are talking 
that's weird oh okay because they 
weren't used to you guys communicating 
with exactly right right right right 
okay so now you're kind of good 
co-parents well they're grown children 
now so you know it's a it's a little 
different but yes and and and my kids 
are was so funny because so the the 800 
miles away person um was the first 
person that ever met my kids so I had 
told my daughter about it and then my 
son goes Mom when are you going to stop 
calling your friend is coming to visit 
or your friend or your friend when are 
you just gonna say it so and they were 
totally fine with it and actually really 
happy for Mom they were like Mom as long 
as you're happy that's all that 
matters let me ask you this Wendy 
knowing what you know now what advice 
would you give someone in a 
long-distance 
relationship that's a good 
question you just have to communic you 
know I felt him all the time and I think 
that's because we you know was we always 
was it was always good morning it was 
always good night he was always the 
person I spoke to on the phone or text 
and it was a you 
know our our love connection was you 
know he would send songs to me and we I 
felt him all day long so I didn't feel 
that he was 800 miles away when he was 
so I think it's that um you know you 
have to be I don't it's just a feel like 
I felt him all the time it wasn't like 
he wasn't near me so it was it was like 
he could have been next door to me and 
you know when you think about it 800 
miles away you can just get on a plane 
and get to somebody within an hour and a 
half that's right sometimes you get I 
can get from one town to the other and 
be stuck in traffic for an 
hour yeah so you know where and and but 
then the thing is my other thing is my 
other advice is to people is Love 
Enough like I don't have I don't have 
any baggage I don't have any I don't 
have 
any darkness in my life and if somebody 
else does will it really 
work so if and don't be blind to the to 
the signs to the red flags 
too 100% And I think you know back to 
the question of long distance what I 
tell my clients is it's going to be 
person specific in relationship specific 
but 
ultimately there should be a plan to get 
to the same city otherwise if there's no 
there there long somebody will get 
frustrated long 
term right and I don't know if that is 
consistent with your relationship or not 
right 
yeah well here we are and he is 800 
miles away and here I am right here in 
my happy little my Happ happy beach 
house and back on the the sun shining 
and and just um my life is full so I 
just I think that someone will find me 
somewhere somehow someway is that 
crazy um no I think that the Universe 
certainly has a hand in this but just 
like you were saying 
with wishing you had had a plan when you 
got back when you were going to divorce 
and have the steps laid out I would say 
to you if I was your dating coach dating 
is the same way unless you have a 
plan it's you just sort of felt feel 
like oh this is the universe like 
telling me this is the right person 
because there's no plan right and the 
first person that walks around you that 
happens to have a dog on a leash you're 
like oh my God here he is I have talked 
to people that are like okay God the 
next person that I see that walks into 
this door in this establishment that I'm 
in and smiles At Me Maybe This is my 
person and lo and behold when you're 
tuned into that you see that person who 
looks at you smiles and walks in and 
you're like oh my God my prayers are 
answered here's this person now is this 
really your person no it's correlation 
it's not causation per se so we 
overestimate right these things that we 
draw up in our heads I'm like look 
unless you have a plan that is this is 
who I need to be with now this is my and 
person this is the lid to my pot and how 
am I going to find this person right 
there's three pipelines that I would 
suggest to you to think about I know 
nobody wants to think about the apps but 
you got to think about the apps because 
the chances of someone finding you 
that's good for you are pretty slim it 
can happen but you know like I'm saying 
there and then meeting people out and 
about in real life and then having a 
plan to have people start setting you up 
on dates and so that's how you would 
develop a dating funnel but long term 
it's really going to be planful versus 
you know I hate to shoot the romcom 
dreams that people have in their minds 
but ultimately that's a fantasy that we 
watch on the screens we all want that to 
happen but the issue is it doesn't 
always work out in real life right so we 
overvalue those initial connections like 
oh my god the guy walked in he smiled at 
me this is a 
sign it's your job to evalu the signs 
and I feel like also I'm very 
comfortable and very very content so 
maybe I need to get a little 
uncomfortable and put myself out there 
because I'm very comfortable very 
peaceful very 
happy right that's a great mindset to 
date right where you're not feeling 
lonely you're not feeling thirsty you're 
not angry you're in a great place you're 
beautiful you're smart you're doing work 
that you love your kids are grown and 
flown and so for you dating over 50 is 
kind of the best time in life because a 
lot of those hurdles you're done those 
ships have sailed now you're looking for 
companionship right so it really I think 
that it's great that you're comfortable 
and content and peaceful now it's the 
and who is the right person for me right 
because we wouldn't be talking about 
this if you didn't want want to be 
dating probably you're 
right you're probably right and so 
dating requires thoughts 
plans big picture plans who is your man 
that's high gpq high and good partner 
qualities that's our process to do this 
and we have a long process that we help 
people to identify partners that 
actually make them happy versus doing 
the same over and over again right 
and then we teach you okay so this is 
who he really is this is a person that's 
going to make you happy and then looking 
for the red flags by phase of dating 
right we've got phased out red flags so 
knowing that that starts to help you 
navigate the dating scene like okay who 
gets in and who gets out and in our 
oneon-one practice we are literally in 
the weeds with our clients looking at 
apps looking looking at messages going 
that is hilarious I love what he said 
here's how we should answer back but 
this guy let me look at him no he sounds 
really negative let's get rid of him so 
and then you have dating scorecards and 
you're filling things out so that we 
really understand a job oh my gosh it's 
amazing it's not a job for you our job 
is to help you vet so people always ask 
like well you know are you matchmakers 
I'm like we're better than matchmakers 
cuz we're helping you on your team not 
against you whereas matchmakers they 
want you to settle down with someone so 
they don't have to provide you more 
matches we our incentives are completely 
with yours we want you to be with the 
right lid to your pot so we are going to 
tell you as professionals this is good 
for you this is out of alignment with 
what you say you want this sounds like 
your ex let's not do this all over again 
right so this is how we are wrapping 
people in bubble wrap and we're really 
along for the ride week over week and 
helping to make sure that even when 
somebody gets through phase one of 
dating which is okay sounds like I met 
someone great he's passed you 15 to 20 
days past me okay he's awesome then we 
go into phase two is this relationship 
in alignment with what you want long 
term and that's where the rubber hits 
the road so that we don't have to go 
back to the well 4 months or four years 
later because this relationship wasn't 
in alignment right I like what you said 
rap and bubble wrap protect yeah yeah 
right and that's it so you don't get 
dinged up during the I don't yeah I 
don't want to get dinged up and I also 
and and that's another thing is I don't 
think I can I don't well we all can I 
don't know if I can get dinged up 
because I'm so protective of myself too 
and I don't know I it's you know I and I 
also I don't know how to resp respond to 
dating 
apps hi like hi and they probably don't 
believe that I'm the age that I 
am so that's another thing that I 
struggle with too because I see people 
that are my age and I feel like I look a 
lot younger than them and um that you're 
stunning oh thank you that's so kind how 
old are you if you don't mind my asking 
oh boy we're all friends we're all 
friends here 58 58 yeah you don't look 
you look 
substantially younger than 58 whatever 
that even means you look amazing it's 
happiness it's happiness it's truly 
happiness really is happiness and some 
false eyelashes that's all well and you 
take care of yourself and you walk and 
you I do homecook meals yeah you ride a 
bite homecooked meals we can not really 
I mean that was during Co I'm not I'm 
not a fan of Cook cooking I really don't 
love being in the kitchen that's the 
honest to God truth when my kids are 
here I do cook and poor kids I think 
they were raised on mac and cheese and 
chicken nuggets but they're healthy and 
wonderful so I don't think it matters um 
I'm not a fan of being in the kitchen 
and I'm first to admit that I don't love 
it and that's great but whatever you're 
doing you're taking good care of 
yourself 
because that I feel that like if I went 
on a dating app they would think like oh 
she's not really real she's she there's 
no way she's 58 and then and and then 
and also like what age do I date 
like what like I don't even know like I 
wouldn't even know what age to date what 
sounds good to 
you I guess like around my age like my 
age sounds good to me to date someone my 
age that's what all the research shows 
women want someone within you know plus 
or minus I wouldn't 
date young person um and I wouldn't go 
really one or two years younger than me 
I don't even know if I would do that you 
should be open to it age is just a 
number right the same way you want 
someone to look at you and go okay it's 
just a number like wow she's beautiful 
and if somebody that's 53 and his kids 
are gone and he thinks you're the bee's 
knees and doesn't care about a 5-year 
age Gap you're not looking to have kids 
at this age so the age it's you know 
people are playing the long game going 
going wait if I'm 58 and he's 75 in 10 
years he'll be 85 and so these are this 
is more than math that people do at this 
age more than anything so I would tell 
you you know go five to 10 years up go 
five years down but and 10 years up wow 
that sounds old right but remember 
thought of that old is US plus 10 my mom 
always tells me that that's what sounds 
old right when you were 42 58 probably 
sounded like our parents right and now 
did you say wait I I'm sorry I got 
distracted did you say go down 10 and go 
up 10 you can go down it depends 
remember these are all malleable online 
try different things right and we're 
here we tweak things with our clients 
week over week and that's where the 
magic starts to happen because every 
year you go up or down and broaden your 
search every inch in height every Mile 
in zip code you bring in hundreds if not 
thousands of potentially new candidates 
and so being open again it we get so 
caught on the quantitative things the 
height the age the ZIP code But 
ultimately it's about alignment of 
values Character Are You elevator people 
for each other do you elevate each other 
do you make each other really really 
happy yeah and do you are you there for 
each other right do 
you friendship yeah and this is what we 
help people look for well that's why 
you're you and you're so fabulous the 
smart Danny Academy is amazing and when 
I found you I was like you're amazing oh 
and everything you say is so right on 
and and and it's good for me to hear all 
this well I you know when one and I were 
talking before you know we were in my 
green room we were talking about you 
know just the questions of being out 
there dating and you guys Wendy is 
gorgeous and she's 58 and you'll see her 
photos and reals oh hi 
Simon and you'll see she's just like you 
she's coming she's divorced right was a 
stay-at-home mom has tried to couple of 
has had different careers right and 
continues to reinvent herself and moved 
from Manhattan to Connecticut and then 
moved from Connecticut to her beach 
house and now has created a really 
fulfilling life and your kids are grown 
and flown and now you're ready for that 
next chapter you could be like the 
perfect golden 
Bachelorette a thank it's so funny that 
you said that my son goes no way no way 
will you do that and my daughter's all 
for it and my neighbors in the beach 
house are like that would be I want to 
be the golden 
Bachelorette but I don't want to be in 
the group I just I want to be her right 
exactly happen I mean it's a lot it's 
very very I like the concept of the 
bachelor with the dating funnel but I I 
mean it's reality television so there's 
a lot of drama that you know we need to 
have behind the scenes you know haraldo 
okay I was just gonna you you you took 
it right out of my mouth so when I first 
got to Heraldo we were still doing I 
slept with my brother's um girlfriend 
you know I we were still doing the trash 
and we were putting them in separate 
green rooms and saying okay there's 
water there I mean if you need to use it 
and telling each other yeah I did that 
I'm not proud of it but I did do that 
and then he became thank God we became 
new more news and it everything changed 
with CNBC and everything else but anyway 
yes I know reality TV and I know what 
that's like but yeah I love the golden 
Bachelor I love the I'm actually gonna 
have a few of the women on my podcast um 
soon as their contracts are up so that's 
exciting and I and I thought they were 
all like so supportive of each other 
this age and older and they all looked 
beautiful and they all take care of 
themselves and they were all rooting for 
each other and that's the kind of 
girlfriend I am yeah I love that and 
that's what I like about this particular 
season you know I don't love the very 
expedited and now let's get married I 
think that that plays into the fallacy 
of Hallmark and Hollywood that wow you 
meet the right person and in 60 days 
let's get hitched and the truth of the 
matter is why not date for another year 
and make sure that we're really good for 
each other it works out sometimes look 
my parents met on a Sunday they were 
engaged on Thursday and married 72 hours 
later they've been married for 50 years 
W okay great but right that's more the 
exception than the rule so that's the 
one tweak I would make but our process 
is similar at Smart dating Academy 
you're going to have a dating funnel 
you're going to have different options 
to choose from because what that helps 
you to do just like Jerry did or Gary I 
forget what his name is in the golden 
Bachelor when you have options you feel 
like you have power and you don't settle 
so the Smart dating process is very much 
like that it's not on TV but we're 
really in the weeds wrapping you in 
bubble wrap and objective cuz we're not 
not trying to create drama we're trying 
to get rid of the drama like that's 
someone with three red flags let's get 
rid of that person I like this one let's 
go on a seventh and an eighth date and 
that's how we've been successful over 
the last 15 years of having zero 
divorces Wendy isn't that bizarre that's 
amazing no you're amazing everything you 
do B is amazing oh I'm so glad you came 
on and I hope that this has inspired you 
say that again I feel honored to be on I 
really do oh I'm so glad you're here and 
I hope that dear listener you see that 
these are the conversations we have with 
people every day right like okay what 
are you going to do do you really know 
who a partner is that's going to make 
you happy are we going to keep repeating 
old patterns overcorrecting for the 
wrong things are we going to have a 
dating funnel how are we going to create 
a dating funnel who's going to tell you 
the truth your friends and your family 
are well-intentioned they don't know 
what they're talking about they don't 
know what they're doing you're taking 
advice from people for example if you 
needed legal advice you're not going to 
ask your neighbor across the street 
who's a plastic surgeon corre right he's 
gonna say I don't know call my lawyer 
right so work with professionals that 
can help you because well again the 
fallacy is everybody knows how to date 
everybody knows how to fall in love when 
it's the right time it's going to happen 
and I'm here to bust those myths like 
anything you want in your life if you 
were looking to change jobs change 
careers would you just say well you know 
what I don't really have to interview 
for jobs the right thing will just land 
in my lap when it's the right time total 
BS we're given terrible advice if you 
want to do something if you want the lid 
to your pot you need to be proactive you 
need to have experts around you build a 
village to keep you safe wrapped in 
bubble wrap and not a village of you 
know the same villagers that plant the 
berries and break your lawn it's like a 
you need a village of people that W that 
are experts and know how to help you and 
have your interest in mind and they are 
aligned with your interests 
yeah I hope this has been helpful to you 
it's been you are you are a 
[Music] 
gem and everything to help people that 
are single and help people find love and 
keep everybody safe in bubble wrap it's 
wonderful well Wendy we're going to have 
to have you back on for a dating update 
so let's get this plan going how does 
that sound sounds wonderful thank you so 
much oh my gosh well well smart daters I 
hope you've enjoyed this episode as much 
as we have we will put Wendy's show in 
the show notes make sure that you listen 
to it make sure that you listen to the 
episode that we did together on her show 
so it's amazing and thank you again for 
being on if you like this episode smart 
daters go in rate it write something 
give it five stars that keeps us 
motivated and keeping the fly will going 
to do more shows for you so with that I 
bid you farewell and we will see you 
next week thank you Bella thank 
you 
