[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love hi smart daters 
welcome back to the week of minis happy 
Friday I'm so excited to talk to you 
today about Love Languages and the 
specific question do does your love 
language have to match your partners or 
somebody that you're dating 
um and the quick answer to that is no 
now for those of you who aren't familiar 
with the five love languages it's a book 
written by the brilliant Gary Chapman 
two or three decades ago and the book is 
about how each of us as human beings has 
five primary ways that we express love 
and we give love and we like to receive 
love okay and so for those of you who 
need a quick refresher that five love 
languages are number one quality time so 
quality time with your partner number 
two physical touch hugs cuddling 
intimacy sex all of the things number 
three acts of service meaning do things 
for me clean my house bake me a cake 
clean out my closet Dy make sure I get 
to my house safely right order me in 
Uber Uber acts of service number four 
words of affirmation tell me what's 
great about me appreciate me notice me 
and say with words what you love about 
me thank me be grateful for me words of 
affirmation and love language number 
five gifts right buy me something show 
me something give me a card tell me with 
your 
gifts and your rewards how much I mean 
to you so you can read the five love 
languages you can take quizzes and you 
can say oh okay my primary love language 
is Quality Time or acts of service or 
physical touch or gifts whatever that is 
now the question people have for me is 
okay if mine is quality time do I have 
to have a partner who prioritizes their 
love language quality time and from my 
stand Point here's what I would say no 
not necessarily because quite frankly 
most human beings need all five of these 
things time physical touch acts of 
service words of affirmation and gifts 
right we all need them now I might not 
be I might not need a gift every single 
day but I'll tell you what if you buy me 
a gift randomly it will make me feel 
special and it will make me feel seen 
who doesn't feel that way I don't need a 
gift every day but that can show me that 
you love me it's not my primary love 
language right and and the same thing 
with touch right I love physical touch 
just as much as the other person some 
days I might need more hugs and kisses 
than I might need another day on days 
where I'm feeling lonely or vulnerable I 
might want Quality Time or if I'm 
feeling disconnected so I believe that 
we're all an average of we all need all 
five of these things and we're going to 
need them on different days in different 
amounts and at different times in our 
lives so the most useful thing you can 
do about love languages is number one be 
aware of them and number two if you're 
dating somebody talk about them and talk 
about what your love languages are and 
specifically what kinds of gifts what 
kinds of Acts of service what kinds of 
words of affirmation I love 
self-development books and relationships 
because they help to spark good 
conversation and open up communication 
between two people so even if you've had 
a partner for you know a month six 
months a year a decade or two and a half 
decades it doesn't matter have the 
conversation and when you start to date 
somebody you know maybe five six seven 
eight dates and talk about the Love 
Languages and talk about what makes you 
feel love how have people expressed love 
to you in the past is the way you 
express your love to somebody else 
congruent with your primary love 
language what I find really interesting 
is that so many people will say their 
love language is X but the way they show 
it to their person is why so we're not 
even consistent in the way that we do 
these things so answering the question 
your love language does not have to be 
the same as your partners just 
understand what each others are and 
understand them in detail okay what 
kinds of Acts of service what kinds of 
words of affirmation right and you can 
be a better partner by understanding 
your partner in a more deep way and 
you'll be a better partner by being able 
to clearly Express what your love 
languages are and how you you like to be 
loved so many people get disappointed on 
holidays like birthdays and Valentine's 
Day because they have an expectation of 
what they want on that day but they 
haven't they haven't talked to their 
partner about that and then most of 
disappointment in life is due to unmet 
expectations talk about what you would 
like it's okay I will ask my kids what 
do you want for your birthday I ask Andy 
on his birthday what would make you 
happy on your birthday because I want to 
provide what they want on their birthday 
not what I think they should want right 
so I hope this helps you uh study Up on 
Love Languages you can Google it you can 
read the book by Gary Chapman by 
ordering it on Amazon you can listen to 
it on Audible you can read a Blog about 
it but I think I've given you a pretty 
good skinny the Cliff's Notes on what 
they are why they're important why they 
don't need to match how we all need 
these different things at different 
times in our lives and in our 
relationships and how we should use 
these to open up communication with our 
partner all right if you love this 
episode give it five stars rate it write 
about it I'm looking for you I need you 
to do this for me if you love this 
podcast help me out this is an effort of 
love right so I love you sending you big 
hugs of psychotic optimism and I hope 
you share these episodes 
with your family and your friends I hope 
you rate them so we can keep doing them 
for you until next time have an 
amazing love filled 
day 
