[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators 
I'm excited to be here today to tell you 
about a situation that came up in 
coaching and I want to help you around 
it and the question is does being 
exclusive with somebody mean that your 
boyfriend or girlfriend 
so I was having a conversation with 
somebody and they said well guess what 
good news we've become exclusive and I 
said well that's great and this was a 
female client that was dating and got 
and I said okay that's amazing so then I 
asked the mic drop question I said okay 
if you're exclusive with him then would 
you call him your boyfriend and she said 
oh no we didn't have that conversation 
yet 
so we went through the question is being 
exclusive a transition towards being 
boyfriend girlfriend or not so from the 
Smart dating perspective I can tell you 
resoundingly when our clients say that 
they are in an exclusive relationship 
and have the conversation at that moment 
clarify and we give them scripts to 
clarify and we want you to clarify okay 
does that mean I can call you my 
girlfriend does that mean I can call you 
my boyfriend put it on the line at that 
point because other than that you have 
to ask yourself if you disagree with 
this definition that's fine right but 
this is the Smart dating Academy 
definition so it means 
what does exclusive mean to you if you 
agree that you're going to shut off your 
dating funnel and be exclusive with this 
with someone meaning I'm only going to 
sleep with you but there's still really 
no strings attached and you know the 
door could be open I don't really know 
what that exclusivity means right if 
somebody says are you seeing anybody 
else right now you're like no are you no 
not right now okay so that's different 
than saying I don't want to see anybody 
else period so from our perspective if 
you are shooting for exclusivity think 
about what you want out of this 
relationship most of you listening to 
this podcast want the lid to your pot 
want a relationship so don't settle for 
exclusivity without a title why are you 
going to shut off your dating funnel and 
be exclusive with someone who's not 
ready to put a label on and I'm not 
saying put a ring on it but I'm saying 
this is my partner this is my boyfriend 
this is my girlfriend I like titles I 
don't care if you're 22 or if you're 75 
saying you have a boyfriend or a 
girlfriend doesn't sound childish at all 
okay I think it lends a lot of clarity 
to somebody saying okay I am exclusive 
with this person and this is my person 
that's great and now remember with 
regards to becoming exclusive if you're 
following the Smart dating Academy 
Kool-Aid around this we don't want you 
to get into an exclusive relationship 
with anybody ideally for 15 or more 
dates over three to four months and now 
why is that that's not some random 
numbers some random formula that I 
picked out of the air 15 dates is a 
really good amount when you do it over 
three months right I mean in our 
practice we have all these graphs and 
things that we that we help our clients 
to navigate but what I can tell you is 
dating slowly you know and spreading 
those 15 dates not over 15 days but over 
three to four months helps you to see 
this person in different contexts right 
different variations of dates walking 
dinner going to a show maybe playing 
something competitive to see how this 
person acts when they win see how they 
act when they lose maybe they're out 
with your friends maybe they're meeting 
your family I don't know but really 
looking at a person in a variety of 
contexts to make sure that they are 
really good for you and they have no red 
flags on them and one of the misnomers 
that people always tell me is well you 
know I thought I saw that there were red 
flags before we became exclusive but I 
thought that that's normal because 
everybody says relationships are hard 
work let me correct that for you a good 
relationship is work but it's not hard 
work and a good relationship isn't going 
to throw down red flags in the beginning 
a relationship is work believe me I've 
been married almost 26 years believe it 
or not and it's work but it's not 
soul-crushing hard work full of red 
flags it means you work to be kind to 
each other you work to continue to see 
what's good in the other person to be 
kind to each other to be loving to each 
other right but it's not you know 
making sure that nobody's screeching out 
of the driveway or throwing the 
microwave across the room that's not 
what we're looking for so back to 
exclusivity from my standpoint trust me 
we've had zero divorces in 14 years we 
know how to do things between Eileen 
Lindsay and me I think we've been 
married for about 76 or 78 years so 
there's a lot of knowledge a lot of 
wisdom in what we're having you do so 
don't get exclusive too quickly date 
slowly right and look for red flags look 
for green flags make sure the 
relationship is easy before you agree to 
become exclusive with somebody and don't 
take exclusive meaning I'm not dating 
anybody else right now but the door is 
cracked open exclusive to you should 
mean about you dear listener that person 
thinks you're the bee's knees they think 
you're the best thing since sliced bread 
they don't want want you to date anybody 
else and they don't want to date anybody 
else and along with that exclusivity 
your reward is you get a title right you 
get to be somebody's partner boyfriend 
or girlfriend so I don't look at being 
exclusive as a lily pad to being 
boyfriend or girlfriend period let's 
date for efficiency date consciously if 
you're exclusive put a title on it not a 
ring on it not yet that can come a year 
later so I hope this helps you in 
navigating relationships navigating your 
funnel and knowing how to define 
exclusivity when you meet someone 
special that you want to be your 
boyfriend your girlfriend or your 
partner so until the next episode big 
love to you get your psychotic 
optimistic pants on and know that love 
will come to you it's a when it's not an 
if right and if you need more tips 
follow us on Instagram at smartdating 
Academy and go to our website 
smartdatingacademy.com and sign up on 
any contact form to get our free 
newsletter which tells you all the 
things that we're up to first and 
foremost you'll always be the first to 
know happy day and talk to you soon 
