[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
hello I'm so excited to be here today 
and we're gonna hop right into it 
so my guest today is truly the 
definition 
of a badass woman and I'm gonna tell you 
why I'm gonna breadcrumb you a little 
bit about how I found her so I had just 
done most of you know I did a TED Talk 
in October and if you haven't seen it go 
to my website or go to my YouTube 
channel and watch it it's called the 
secret to finding lasting love and in 
doing that probably the first or second 
day that I was watching my TED talk 
you'll see other talks come up and it's 
like other talks you might be interested 
in and there was this interesting talk 
given by a person named Ashley and I 
went on to it and I don't know why I 
felt called to click and I clicked on it 
and to tell you I was gripped and 
riveted it was like 11 p.m you guys and 
I went into fight or flight listening to 
her Ted Talk for like 10 minutes I was 
like full of cortisol full of adrenaline 
and I I was like I need to tell this 
person how amazing her Ted Talk was so I 
found her wrote a note on her website 
and got an incredibly kind note back 
like five seconds later from her and I 
want to tell you I have with me today 
Ashley Stahl Ashley we're so happy to 
have you here 
thank you for having me what an intro I 
need you in my pocket like what a 
self-esteem boost oh my god well I'm 
gonna read you guys Ashley's bio okay so 
just wait because all I said was she was 
a badass and she gave a tedx talk let me 
do her little Justice she is a 
counter-terrorism professional turned 
career coach and best-selling author of 
the book U-turn get unstuck discover 
your direction design your dream career 
and she helps people to get into careers 
that you love and that you're aligned 
with she's given two viral tedx talk uh 
case in point found her through her Ted 
Talk she's got online courses she's got 
an email list of 50 gajillion people on 
Pluto Jupiter and planet Earth she's got 
a podcast that I've been on twice 
um and she writes for Forbes she's been 
all over in the media like Wall Street 
journals so I present to you this bad 
asked firecracker amazing human being 
that I have grown greatly attached to in 
the last two months Ashley Stahl so I 
love you I love you back thank you for 
having me this is so much fun oh my God 
I mean Ash tell us about you just your 
story and how you you turned into U-turn 
and what you do now I mean my listener 
is amazing maybe single can live 
anywhere on Earth and is looking for 
passion and purpose in their lives 
overall including finding the lid to 
their pot so tell us you 
I love that expression every pot has a 
lid it's the best and I think that's 
definitely I think there's a lot of 
parallels between your career and your 
love life like dating is very much like 
job hunting and searching for the right 
fit 
um but for me I think like most people I 
grew up with those ideas that you should 
follow your passion or that you should 
do what you love and the money is going 
to follow and and I remember making 
myself crazy with those expressions 
feeling more lost than ever and in 
college I went to the career services 
office 
and I remember you know asking her what 
should I major in and she said to me you 
know do what you love and all of those 
things again and then I just majored in 
three things government history and 
French not because I'm an overachiever 
but because I was lost and just needed 
options 
and you know fast forward there's so 
many reasons that took me into 
counterterrorism but mostly it was that 
I grew up in the wake of 9 11 that you 
know I think 911 impacted the millennial 
generation in a similar way that the 
pandemic has hit Generation Z it's at 
that critical point in their career 
growth 
um and you know my argument in all of my 
work is don't do what You Love Don't 
Follow Your Passion instead do what you 
are 
and I think there's power in this not 
just in your career but in your love 
life because you know people and and I'm 
really someone that has done this where 
you know I have a really fun dad and he 
used to praise me as a kid for being 
really sharp really quick 
um really funny and so I learned at a 
young age to perform especially when 
they had dinner parties like I had a 
Persona and it wasn't that it was 
totally inauthentic but I could butter 
it up and put it on and be funny and be 
entertaining 
and it wasn't until later in my love 
life 
that I realized like wow I don't want to 
be this entertaining version of me I 
want to be me I want my nervous system 
to be at zero I want to be calm when I'm 
with someone not holding the 
responsibility of Performing so that 
their time with me is interesting 
and it took so much self-discovery and 
so many layers to get back into the 
heart of who I am and carry that not 
just into my career and my love life but 
everywhere that I go and in my work in 
so many ways and so since 
I would say 2010 I graduated grad school 
I gave everything to working in National 
Security I've had a protector living 
inside of me my whole life like I had a 
little brother who he's so sharp and 
when we were kids he was a slower 
learner than I was and I was so 
protective of him and I think this 
protectiveness just kind of channeled 
itself into the government I thought 
that's the highest way that I could 
protect people and you know watching 911 
happen on the East Coast having family 
on the East Coast it just felt like the 
thing to do and I put all of myself into 
it I learned languages 
French Arabic Dari I got the best degree 
I could and eventually I landed at the 
Pentagon and it was very soon into the 
Pentagon that I was like wait a minute 
this isn't for me I'm way too sensitive 
for this and how did I not notice that 
and the issue was really a matter of 
core values and 
realizing that just because I'm 
interested in something doesn't mean I'm 
meant to be producing that thing just 
because I happily consume politics or 
fashion doesn't mean I meant to produce 
politics by being a politician or 
produce fashion by being a designer um 
there's a big difference between having 
an interest in something and and 
upgrading it into an actual career path 
how you use your mind your body your 
heart and your energy throughout the day 
is very different 
um from what you're interested in 
sometimes you know I I just can't say it 
enough it's like I love reality TV but 
it would be the worst thing for me to be 
on a reality TV show so the point 
that my healing in my career is very 
much so a form of healing I think in all 
facets of my life including my love life 
because I was able to say okay what are 
my core values actually 
and I think one thing people don't do in 
their career or in love is Define their 
values like I'm sure what some of your 
clients you see people say like oh they 
value religion or spirituality and so do 
I but if to that person religion means 
going to church every week and to you it 
just means like having positive thoughts 
or being a moral person it's very 
different so uh you know I had a client 
who told me that adventure for them 
meant trying new restaurants in Miami 
and then another client Adventure was 
skydiving so so you know like defining 
your values really understanding how 
they show up in your life matters just 
as much I think in your career as it 
does in your love life 
um and so that has become one of the 
many facets that I've discovered over 
time So eventually I got the courage to 
leave the Pentagon after you know 
putting all this time in and I know a 
lot of people buy into the myth that 
because they put a ton of time into 
something they can't leave they can't 
change it they can't make it 
yeah and you know whether you're in a 
relationship or a career that's not 
working for you backing up does not have 
to mean backing down 
um there are so many things that we are 
taught in society that will that if 
we're doing this thing we're moving 
forward but the truth of the matter is 
if you're not aligned with who you truly 
are you're moving backwards and 
eventually who you are is going to win 
who you are is going to shine through 
who you are is going to demand to be 
seen and you're not going to have any 
choice but to unravel where you are so 
that you can restart and be who you or 
where you are so you could restart and 
be who you truly are 
did you have a moment when you were 
sitting at the Pentagon where you were 
like 
like I I think life is full of 
inflection points right and there's 
always that point like where change 
happens in an instant yeah and what was 
that point for you because I I think I 
want to unpack so much of what you said 
right you don't you have to be who you 
are just because you're interested in 
something or good at something doesn't 
mean that is who you are so what was 
that moment for you and then how did you 
get to where you are now 
um you know kind of inspire us because I 
think who doesn't want to be who they 
are and take that burden off of do what 
you love and success will come find what 
you're passionate about and then start a 
business around that people you're right 
it's concrete blocks on our shoulders 
yeah yeah yeah exactly and I I think uh 
well first of all the big limit and I 
get again I just there's so many 
parallels between the amount of times on 
my podcast or my book I reference dating 
and in alignment with job hunting is 
just insane but 
um you know I think the thing that's so 
interesting is that people put this 
pressure on themselves to have the 
answers in the first shot or the first 
try and it's just not real if you ask 
any successful entrepreneur 
um you know how they found their path 
usually there's a lot of failure on the 
same block as all of their success 
and this rigidity and unwillingness to 
be experimental to pay what I would call 
the cost of admission to a fulfilling 
career a fulfilling love life I think 
it's translating into a lot of poor 
choices so for example 
you know I think what we're doing in our 
careers is almost like the social 
equivalent in our love lives to saying 
the first person you like in preschool 
marry them like do it and and grow it 
um 
so I think it's just really important to 
be able to say is that true how are you 
going about your career what mindset are 
you holding about it and in your love 
life because to me life is an experiment 
life is a numbers game and when dating 
is just sifting right like you're 
sifting through the options so to me so 
is your career and if you want to be 
powerful to me that doesn't mean that 
you just go into Limbo what it means is 
you show up you try something on you see 
what feedback the universe gives you and 
you course correct along the way and I 
think where people are getting stuck in 
love or career is they're saying I want 
this to be right and so I'm going to 
make it be right without accepting that 
eventually they're gonna have to rip 
that Band-Aid that is not a sustainable 
plan 
exactly and it comes back to dating 
right and it's and it's that risk 
aversion and it right and we don't to 
your point once you experiment with 
looking at other things other jobs in 
the dating world it's you don't want to 
look at other people and then what 
happens we fall out of alignment with 
what we actually want we ignore red 
flags in situations because now we have 
one option because we're not we're not 
confident enough to say well I can do a 
couple of these things at the same time 
and that's where we get stuck in bad 
situations bad jobs bad relationships 
again and again and again so it's 
changing your mindset around this which 
is what I love you can take chances guys 
you can experiment look at finding the 
job that you love the career that you 
love the person that you love you're 
going to have to go through iterations 
and take chances and not say well I I'd 
want the third person I date to become 
my husband it's not going to happen 
exactly exactly and you know in the same 
way like I've made the choice to live 
vulnerably so if you read my book or you 
listen to my podcast or anything I try 
to be pretty vulnerable and honest in 
service to people and myself my own 
sanity just being open and real 
um but I feel like we aren't allowing 
ourselves to be honest with ourselves 
and so one of my favorite questions that 
I ask in my TED Talk and I ask clients 
all the time is what do you know that 
you wish you didn't 
what do you know that you wish wasn't 
true and then most people are gonna say 
something about their career about their 
partner about their lives that if they 
really look at it it's threatening it 
can feel threatening because they have 
to change it if they want to take 
responsibility in their lives and most 
of the time 
we're not actually stuck it's just our 
thinking that stuck we think we're stuck 
somewhere when we're not we can choose 
to change it and so 
um when it comes to core values for 
example you asked me when I knew that I 
wanted to leave the Pentagon I remember 
I worked on military bases I was 
traveling between Washington DC and 
Indiana I was asked to travel to 18 
countries that were really high risk and 
I quit my job because of it 
um so that was one of the moments that I 
truly quit but another moment that I 
knew I needed to quit was and this is so 
weird for me to admit but 
somebody handed me their gun and I never 
held a gun before and I remember 
thinking like who am I to think I'm 
supposed to work in National Security 
and that I'm scared to hold a gun and 
this person just need to go use the 
restrooms can you hold this really quick 
and I just remember feeling like death 
in my hands and terrified and thinking 
to myself like I'm just not cut out for 
this and 
you know obviously anybody listening 
could say to themselves like how do you 
not know that like what a weird 
Millennial thought to be like I want to 
work in security but I'm scared of guns 
I didn't know that about myself I'm just 
experimenting with my life and I'm 
courageous enough to do that there's a 
big difference between being afraid and 
being courageous and you know we've been 
taught doubt means don't but for me I 
never put those two together 
um for me fear just means you're on an 
edge for yourself and to keep going a 
lot of the time sometimes there's a very 
real mechanism of fear that you know is 
ingrained in us from seeing a 
saber-toothed tiger and needing to dodge 
it 
but I think 
um for me just realizing like I'm going 
to practice courage or as um Dan 
Sullivan says fear is is wetting your 
pants and courage is doing what you're 
supposed to do with wet pants and so for 
me 
I quit the Pentagon with wet pants I 
just was like all right I have to go I 
don't know who I am right now but I'm 
committed to finding out it's a way of 
life I am willing to put years in to my 
own sanity to my own being I'm willing 
to follow the nudges I'm willing to 
check things out that make me curious 
right now I live in New York I've lived 
in Los Angeles I've lived in Paris I've 
lived in Washington DC I've lived in 
London yes that comes up across probably 
as privileged the truth of the matter is 
I lived with someone in Washington DC 
and I was sharing a bedroom and barely 
scraping to get by when I was starting 
my job hunt but my point is I'm willing 
to try things on and inconvenience 
myself for the sake of finding me and 
you know there's a lot of questions in 
the self-help world of do you ever get 
there in your career in your 
relationship with yourself whatever 
their means for you and I think you do 
but you need to be willing to experiment 
to figure out what that even means for 
you 
100 and there like you said you're going 
to course correct what you think there 
is supposed to be is going to be very 
different than what there ends up being 
or is because you're experimenting and 
you're going to find out you're going to 
hold the gun in your hand and go oh 
I like I don't want death in my hands 
right you how could you have known that 
right but then you knew that and you 
course corrected you had a choice we all 
have a choice every day we make 
thousands of little decisions that 
determine where we get to in our life 
now you talk about values right and I 
think especially for people you know 
maybe people that are older than 40 or 
50 or 60 that might be listening to this 
or Heck if you're in your 20s or 30s how 
do you sit down how do you know what you 
value can you tell us like how did you 
come to your own process like these are 
my values we talk about core values all 
the time are those I value honesty I 
value Integrity or is it something else 
tell us 
to me the definition of a core value is 
it's a non-negotiable principle by which 
you live your life okay and you can 
value a lot of things but for them to be 
a core value they need to be evident in 
your day-to-day being 
um and something that people would 
probably be able to easily notice or 
comment on about you 
um so my values are connection fun 
Freedom inspiration and you see it 
everywhere like people who know me would 
be able to guess that I love fun and and 
I'm looking for it 
um I'm not a workaholic like there's so 
many different ways of my being and the 
problem I think with core values that 
people have is that far too often 
they're too aspirational they pick words 
that they want more of in their life 
which by the way is really valuable to 
know 
versus words that really represent who 
they are and so I think what's important 
here is to be able to say you know if 
you pick the word peace ask yourself are 
you peaceful how does peace manifest in 
your day-to-day being how are you 
showing up in peace how are you 
demonstrating peace and if it's hard for 
you to answer it's probably not a core 
value it's something that you're 
aspiring to which is great to know 
um and then let's get back to your core 
values because to me when you know those 
top five I would say core values that 
you have those top five key ingredients 
to how you show up in the world you can 
use them as a filter in your career and 
probably I would defer to you in your 
love life because you're able to say 
um you know and to me the fastest way to 
be unhappy in your career love life 
probably would be to have one of your 
core values violated so let's say a core 
value for you is integrity and it's 
showing up everywhere and how you are in 
the world who you are in the world 
um you know I used to work in the 
government and I worked at the Pentagon 
like the Cornerstone allegedly of 
justice so you know maybe it wouldn't be 
weird for me to say justice is a core 
value of mine right so 
it's interesting because there are jobs 
where maybe the person loves what they 
do 
um loves the people they work with but 
they're selling something that they 
don't believe in and integrity is a 
value for them that would mean that 
their career is infringing on these 
principles that are so at the at the 
helm of who they are and I think there's 
probably something to that with your 
love life like if you value something so 
deeply like for example I had a partner 
I value inspiration a lot and I have a 
playlist on Spotify called the writer 
mix for those of you who need a focus 
playlist under my name I I wrote my 
entire book to the writer mix that I 
have and it was so important for me to 
focus like I would put it on and it was 
almost like I trained my brain to know 
it was right it was writing time writing 
time and I and I the music moved me so 
much and I remember my partner at the 
time he hated the mix and he would be 
like oh there's like a pit in my stomach 
every time you play this 
and I remember having to sit him down 
and be like you don't understand this 
mix is like what gets me inspired and 
like inspiration is so important to me 
and I it helps me work and I can think 
and there's it's so much more than a 
music mix to me 
and every time he would say that was it 
was it was a trespassing on something so 
much deeper it was a core value for me 
it was my inspiration 
um every day it was part of my 
inspiration so 
I think it's these little things where 
you know like you'll see a couple 
fighting about the color of the paint on 
the wall they're painting their new 
house it's not about the paint right 
like maybe somebody values something 
beneath that and 
um at their core and so I think it's 
mostly important in your career to say 
what are my top five how do I ask 
questions through the lens of those so 
that I could figure out if something is 
a yes or a no for me 
um and how do I make sure in my personal 
life that I have people in my life that 
support and nurture these parts of me 
that are at my core 
that's right I love that how you said 
fun and connection and you're perfectly 
like you have picked a career that 
allows for all of that whereas you 
hadn't before so I think this is such a 
great conversation your core values are 
who you are and how you're living your 
life now they're not aspirational right 
exactly and that is the biggest thing 
that people are missing and that's 
something that in my body of work has 
been really a clear teaching because I 
find there's a lot of talk on the 
internet about core values and in the 
coaching space and I think it's great 
but I found that there's no one saying 
like there's a difference between an 
aspiration and a value and to me that 
distinction is so core to being able to 
choose those words and as part of my 
body of work of don't just do what you 
love do what you are another message I 
have is around how you're spending your 
time so in your career 
you know it's tough to push a river so 
people aren't going to enjoy their work 
if they're trying to be someone they're 
not they're not going to enjoy their 
relationship if they have to keep up a 
Persona or a way of being that isn't 
really theirs 
um and so to me knowing where you're 
gifted is the juice of a good career 
um I've found that there are 10 core 
skill sets that you know after serving 
my email list and just coaching people 
the past decade and my programs online 
there seems to be 10 kind of categories 
of skill that people fall into whether 
they own a business or they're in the 
workforce and I could go through them if 
it's helpful 
um and that to me is at the Crux of who 
they are that's how you want to be using 
your mind your body your hands your 
energy throughout the day yeah oh yeah 
go through them I want to hear let's do 
it so number one is innovation so that 
is the creative self-starter it's the 
intrapreneur or the entrepreneur 
um one thing that is key to know is 
whether you're supposed to be an 
entrepreneur or an entrepreneur an 
entrepreneur is the highly creative 
Problem Solver within a company or with 
they have their own book of business 
under the umbrella of a brand right like 
an insurance person or real estate or 
they're the second in command at a 
company the entrepreneur obviously is 
the person that problem solves and is 
visionary in the market 
um usually I've found that people are 
meant to be one or the other as a result 
of their relationship with flexibility 
and freedom and also Financial Security 
so the entrepreneur needs absolute 
freedom that means they need freedom on 
what idea they work on it needs to be 
their idea the time the schedule that 
they work on it and how it's going to 
look usually the entrepreneur can 
execute on a concept it's not their idea 
but they're highly entrepreneurial so 
they have all these amazing uh ways that 
they're going to bring it to life and 
they're usually okay getting some 
instruction but they want some autonomy 
in being able to bring it to life 
um the entrepreneur it's like leave them 
alone they have their Vision it needs to 
be done and it's not that they're 
difficult to work with they're just a 
Visionary and that's who they are 
um also Financial Security 
um you know the entrepreneur feels more 
pain if they don't do their thing versus 
the entrepreneur usually appreciates 
that predictability of their finances 
more than they need 
um that all-out freedom in the 
marketplace most of the time 
entrepreneurs just need flexibility and 
they want that Financial Security 
and then there's the second core skill 
set and none of these are in a 
particular order 
which is building so this can be a 
Management Consultant they have a 
mindset of building or it could be more 
tactical like a construction worker 
building with their hands it's about the 
energy and the skill of building it 
could be literal it could be mental 
it's I keep it open on purpose because I 
think that these are different hats that 
people can wear differently 
and then the third one is words this is 
my core skill set probably yours too 
um and one of the keys when it comes to 
these skills is understanding are you 
introverted or are you extroverted and I 
know there's a lot of research on being 
an ambivert but why this matters is 
because the internal if you're 
introverted you're going to express 
words if that's your skill set more 
internally that's going to look like a 
writer that's going to look like you 
behind your computer a little bit more 
if you're an extrovert the way you use 
words can be very external that could be 
an agent that could be a sales rep that 
could be a speaker 
um motivational speaker there's so many 
different ways it can look number four 
is motion 
this is the person who's physically in 
motion or on their feet believe it or 
not that's a skill 
it's those are the people who are they 
could be a tour guide or they could be a 
fitness trainer they Thrive being on 
their feet number five is service so 
this is the humanitarian the helper this 
one it's important to ask yourself along 
with all of them you know where is this 
skill coming from is it from a wound or 
is it from inspiration what I mean is 
are you a service person or did you just 
learn to be a people pleaser at a young 
age 
um and then there's number six which is 
coordination God bless the coordinators 
you need them I need them these are the 
detail-oriented across the T dot the I 
project management operations get it 
done sort of people events you know all 
of the different skills that I really 
just don't have um I'm always hiring 
coordinators because I'm like oh thank 
God for you shout out to Kirsten if 
you're listening to this thank you we 
love you Kirsten yeah 
um and then number seven is analysis so 
this can be the economist the academic 
the researcher 
um highly analytical mind and number 
eight is the numbers person number 
crunching bookkeeper investment bankers 
spreadsheets God bless their souls again 
another skill I don't have number nine 
is Tech this could be I.T support this 
could be artificial intelligence 
creators 
um and then number 10 is beauty this 
could be musicians this could be makeup 
artists this could be actor it just 
depends on designers into designers 
exactly this is the people who are 
making art of the world around them in 
some way so those are the ten obviously 
every now and again I'll come across 
someone that maybe doesn't fall under 
that 
um most people will resonate with two or 
three of these skill sets but it's 
important to know which one you lead 
with yeah no that's so key and I love 
that you shared those with us and you 
know as Ashley I know you and I have 
talked about your dating life and your 
relationship life and you're a highly 
eligible single woman living in New York 
and dating all over if you had to think 
about your values right connection fun 
how do you translate your values into 
the dating world is that something that 
you've been evaluating potential dates 
by as well or do you have a different 
set of relationship values yeah I think 
one of the values that I've had a 
misunderstanding around that got me 
stuck in relationships was around 
connection so I love connection and I 
used to tell myself like oh we have a 
connection if I felt chemistry and a 
sense of humor with someone but what was 
missing for me is to be deeply 
understood and it takes time for me to 
feel like somebody deeply understands me 
and so for me connection often was 
missing if I was with somebody for a 
while and we laughed a lot and we could 
have fun doing the same things we're 
interested in the same things but they 
couldn't really get to know that deeper 
way of how I think who I am and so 
that's been a standard that I'm holding 
a lot more highly and I've also learned 
a lot about how my core values need to 
show up for me to be happy so for 
example just because I value fun it 
doesn't necessarily mean that the other 
person has to bring the fun it just 
needs to be that they're down for fun in 
in what fun looks like for me so for me 
fun looks like new experiences being out 
and about 
trying new things 
as long as they're down for that 
um obviously it's a bonus if they create 
the fun for me I've had partners that do 
that and that's amazing or other 
self-expression so I need to feel 
emotionally safe I need to feel like I 
can be who I am I could share what I 
think or what I feel I want to feel seen 
um you know I had a partner who was very 
resistant to reading my book because 
they didn't like reading 
um and then I had someone who read my 
book twice before our first date so I 
feel like I don't need someone you know 
reading my work or anything like that to 
date me but the place he was coming from 
of genuinely wanting to know more about 
me 
um was really heartwarming and so I 
think that that made me feel 
self-expressed with the person like they 
they saw me through that book and they 
still and they want to connect more 
um and so I think these are different 
ways and so for anyone listening I would 
encourage you to say what are your 
values which ones are you being a little 
too aspirational with that you can 
delete from the list and how do you want 
those show up in your love life and how 
do you need them to because there's a 
big difference between a need and a want 
um 
for example my best friend the other day 
I once dated an art collector and I 
loved the fun part of me loved that he 
would take me all these places that had 
in the self-expression part of me he 
would take me to Art openings and 
Galleries and I was exposed to a world 
that I didn't really know and I'm 
usually the one kind of bringing someone 
around saying come see this fun thing 
that I like and so it was really fun to 
be with somebody who brought the fun and 
then I started dating someone who's just 
really easy going totally down for 
things but they didn't really bring that 
fun they were just kind and sweet and 
great and my best friend was like but 
what about the she calls it 
expansiveness which is what I call it 
too 
you know like he doesn't sound like he 
brings you that expansiveness 
and don't you need that I said no I want 
that I would prefer somebody to bring 
expansiveness I need them to not prevent 
me from being that way so as long as 
they're down to come along I'm good 
and you bring up a great point because 
it's it just because somebody could be 
different than you and maybe not 
expansive in the same way I don't think 
this conversation about knowing who we 
are knowing what we value means that 
we're looking for mirror images of 
ourselves because that isn't it's not 
what most people want or need so if 
someone isn't as expansively thinking as 
you are maybe they're not as well 
traveled as you are or I am or whomever 
but the question that I have my clients 
ask themselves is would they be willing 
to 
yeah right because sometimes we we are 
who we are because of the set of 
circumstances but that doesn't mean that 
we're stuck in that place what is our 
capacity to grow and to change and to 
want new experiences right so for 
someone that could become more expansive 
that's what you want yeah or is 
expansive in a different way I had a 
client who was now happily married she 
was 34 when she started with me she's a 
publicist and she said you know I'm this 
highly cerebral Alpha you know 
successful woman and I want a guy that 
reads you know Sunday morning it's 
brunch reads the New York Times cover to 
cover does the crossword puzzle right 
and dated scads of those guys and every 
single one of them nobody ended up 
sticking tons of them ended up having 
red flags she says well I just want them 
to be smart I said but intelligence can 
show up in different ways she ended up 
marrying somebody who not only had his 
own job in the corporate world but also 
had a side hustle in real estate could 
care less about reading the New York 
Times and I as her dating coach said 
have brunch with your friends and do the 
crossword puzzles together in the New 
York Times if he doesn't do that that's 
fine but he is smart and worldly in his 
way and he's so good to you so stop 
thinking you need this mirror image of 
yourself and look at the fact that he is 
worldly he is intelligent just in a 
different way and they couldn't be 
happier together and they have this yin 
yang energy which is amazing I love that 
and he brought up a really good point 
that I think crosses over also with 
career and love which is masculine 
versus feminine energy and I think the 
trademark of an evolved soul is someone 
who can walk through both energies 
effectively when they're needed but what 
I get curious about is in love 
especially with women like what you just 
described you know I'm a hard-working 
woman 
um how do you think we should be turning 
it off in our love life that that 
masculine energy are shifting because 
for me it has been a constant practice 
in my career and I get asked as a career 
coach by women all the time 
um how do I shift from the work day into 
my household 
yeah and I think and I get this question 
all the time with our clients like how 
do I you know do I I go straight from 
you know work to my date and like you 
have to come home and wash the stench of 
work off of you you need a I say you've 
got to have a dating routine like I have 
them we they have their dating playlist 
they have their go-to outfits right it's 
building these Atomic habits then like 
you were saying with your writer's 
playlist as soon as you hear it it's 
pavlovian and you're like I should be 
writing right now so as soon as I put on 
my berry lip and I curl my hair and I 
put on my cute wrap dress or pencil 
skirt or skinny jeans or whatever their 
go-to outfits are in that playlist and 
they're sipping their Prosecco okay now 
they're like I'm in dating mode and 
bringing yourself 
out of you know criminal defense 
attorney mode into just being 
Ashley the cool girl it's like who are 
you when you're with your best friends 
when you're having a glass of wine when 
your feet are kicked up who is that girl 
and you want to have a dating ritual 
that's going to bring that facet of you 
out I tell women especially men you too 
but we're like diamonds diamonds have 
facets all over it and at different 
parts of the day different parts of our 
Lives we have a different facet that 
faces forward and so for dates the facet 
it's like you want to turn your diamond 
and bring out the fun cool girl that you 
are when you're with your inner Village 
and so often we want to lead with our 
corporate facet with our masculine facet 
because again it's pavlovian we do that 
at work we get promoted we get more 
money we get more respect lather rinse 
repeat do it again and again and we 
think that because that success breeds 
success that's the Persona that you are 
but don't forget you're a diamond you 
can spin that facet around and be the 
girl that you are and I work with 
c-suite people entrepreneurs cert like 
high voltage people that we have these 
conversations all the time that's who 
you are in this facet of your life but 
who are you and most of us are you know 
we're kind warm smart people that just 
want to meet a good person and want to 
be accepted for who we are yeah without 
that without that work costume on like 
who am I really and I want you to love 
that part of me 
exactly I'm so glad I asked you about 
this on this conversation because giving 
all this career Insight I think 
um there is a masculinity to the tips 
and the tactics and the go-to's and the 
um and I think there's something so 
important about being able to be 
um not just in your love life but in 
your career I think that sometimes when 
you're so masculine you're forcing 
things you're pushing things and you 
often will get results you don't 
actually want anyway 
um and so to me a good question in my 
career that I ask sometimes is what's 
wanting to happen 
and I I answer that based on what I'm 
what feedback I'm getting from people 
around me like if you know I remember 
when I started my coaching business 10 
years 12 years ago people were like are 
you hosting any groups and I was like no 
are you hosting any groups and I kept 
getting asked by different people I'm 
like I guess yeah because this is 
wanting to happen and so I think it's 
it's powerful 
um to look at what feedback you're 
getting in the world 
um in love and also in your career and I 
mean I could talk about this stuff 
forever but obviously the parallels are 
just endless 
oh it's it's so true and and you know 
you've brought me to a place and I don't 
know that I've ever talked about this 
people often ask me you know how did you 
make the switch from running a non-stick 
coding company to becoming a dating 
coach and an entrepreneur right and and 
and it was hard the transition I call 
them the dark years I left my company my 
family and I owned a business everybody 
else retired when we sold and they I 
wanted to stay on and I loved it and I 
wanted the experience of running a 
Fortune 100 company and there were 
certain aspects I love love love and 
what I didn't realize is when you're 
part of a corporate organization and you 
love what you do and you do a good job 
they want to promote you they're like 
we'd like you to move to Nashville and 
run a bigger facility and I knew 
something inside of me I just knew to 
your point this isn't going to be my 
career I don't want to be and they said 
you could be the next blah blah blah 
female CEO of a multinational Enterprise 
and I just that put me into fight or 
flight like thinking about that I was 
like that's not for me I don't want that 
life and now I had a one-year-old at 
home so I left I'm like I want to do 
something different I knew I wanted to 
set people up but I didn't know how in 
the dating and matchmaking world so and 
I don't even know that I really knew 
that because here's what I did and you 
can laugh at this because I made a list 
when I sat down like what do I want to 
be when I grow up and I was young 
and I said okay what are all the things 
that I love to do and I made this long 
list of things activities I love I love 
drinking coffee in the morning I love 
talking to my friends I love helping 
them I love connecting people and then 
that long list I made the next column 
was what am I actually good at on this 
list right and that started that list 
got really small really fast and that's 
how I went from running a manufacturing 
company to doing work that fed my soul 
and was exactly who I am what did I 
value to Ashley's brilliant points 
earlier what I didn't know was what I 
valued I didn't know who I was I was a 
pleaser I am a performer you put me in a 
situation I will get A's I will be your 
best employee I am that person so I 
never sat back to say who am I right I 
love what am I good at because we get 
caught in the frenzy of our dad saying 
oh my gosh I'm so proud of you because 
you got straight A's well I better 
get straight A's and I better get into a 
good school and I and and we get caught 
in that and at some point the damn music 
stops and you're like I'm not a show 
monkey who am I and I I tell people 
sometimes it's a hard tunnel to walk 
through but it's so 
purposeful ultimately to say who am I 
how am I living my life what am I good 
at what could I do what would give me 
joy to get out of bed and do every 
single day and it comes naturally to me 
and having these conversations about 
work and finding your purpose in work I 
think you know one of the things I 
wanted to ask you is for people that are 
listening to this maybe you're you know 
maybe you're a 28 year old and you hate 
your job and maybe you're a 55 year old 
and your kids are gone and you've stayed 
home with them and you want you feel 
like you're so young and you have 
purpose what's some what's uh what's a 
way that people can get started with 
finding their purpose 
I think the first order of business when 
you feel disconnected is just to get 
connected to yourself 
um so if you're in a place right now 
where you don't feel connected to what 
you're doing instead of saying what job 
do I need or what job title should I be 
taking or what business do I need to 
start I think say what are the things I 
need to do to make me feel like myself 
again 
um for me I have a lot of good 
girlfriends there's a couple in 
particular where for some reason after I 
see them I feel like myself again 
um there I take dance classes I love 
hip-hop 
um believe it or not you know whatever 
people see me they're like you don't 
come across like you worked at the 
Pentagon and you don't come across like 
you like rap music but I do so dance 
classes you too that's amazing Bella so 
much so so I used to have a hip-hop 
instructor to teach my kids how to dance 
Too living out my dance fantasies so yes 
people say you ran a Fortune 100 
division you know how to drive a 
forklift and you like rap like swearing 
rap I do it's the best it's the best and 
like there's other stuff like for 
example I used to live in Los Angeles 
now I'm in New York but I love the ocean 
I used to put my feet in the water when 
I felt like I was just off and it 
brought me back to me in a lot of ways 
so my question for you is listening is 
what is your ocean you know what do you 
need to come back to you start there and 
then from that homeostasis you can make 
better choices of what feels right and 
what doesn't 
yeah and there's so many parallels to 
job search and partner search and think 
about the kind of partner that feels 
like home to you that feels like that 
soft cozy blanket and even if like 
Ashley you value connection sometimes 
that connection can lose Us in the 
sizzle and the high highs and the low 
lows what kind of long-term connection 
do you want who are the people in your 
life that make you happiest what do they 
feel like and start asking yourself the 
right questions to get you to live this 
life that you are in love with a job 
that you love a career whatever it is 
maybe you want to volunteer finding your 
purpose but asking yourself who am I do 
that soul searching work and if it's 
about love in the same way evaluate what 
have I been doing what's not working 
Where do I want to be and start to have 
those conversations with yourself and 
know the good news is unlike 20 or 30 
years ago there were no Ashley's there 
were no Bellas to help you to walk the 
paths that we have both walked and now 
we hold other people's hands through 
this process so reach out let us know 
you know Ashley if people want more 
information about you where can they 
where can they get more Ashley oh my 
gosh there's a whole lot of meat going 
around right now so my book is 
everywhere books are sold it's called 
U-turn get unstuck discover your 
direction design your dream career it's 
bright yellow you can't miss it my 
podcast is also called the you turn 
podcast which you were on I'm so happy 
you came on it's you turn two words and 
I'm on Instagram at Ashley Stahl 
oh my gosh you guys and I'm gonna have 
links to Ashley's book in the show notes 
as well so you can buy her book and see 
all things Ashley Ashley thank you so 
much for this really amazing 
conversation on purpose and more 
importantly how to define who we are and 
what we value I had goosebumps numerous 
times of things that you said so I know 
you've elevated me and taught me and I 
know you've taught the listener the same 
so big hugs to you thank you for being 
here and like always you guys if you 
like this leave us a review 
say the thing give us a good star rating 
there's no better gift than the gift of 
you listening to this and letting us 
know that you loved it so Ashley thank 
you again and we will see you next week 
