author of nine books award-winning radio 
and tv host dr berman laura my friend 
thank you so much for being here i'm so 
happy to be here of course i know you've 
been talking a lot about manifesting 
love so tell us about how do we get to 
this version of ourselves so what you 
would do for free we don't think of as 
part of our purpose or our greatest 
gifts or our greatest authentic 
expression but boy is that at the center 
of it and then if you put that together 
with your greatest heartbreak you know 
you may end up crocheting blankets for 
ptsd and military vets right your 
greatest heartbreak is related to the 
ptsd your greatest passion and joy is 
crocheting boom you put them together 
and you have an outselling etsy store 
right the next thing you know exactly 
and just because you would do it for 
free doesn't mean yes you have to do it 
for no 
just like you would give dating advice 
right if you weren't doing this you'd 
probably just be kidding sing with 
people on the corner and with your 
friends that's what you'd be doing 
