[Music] 
in the early years people would say like 
you should go out with that guy the 
answer to that is no you should not 
because what I quickly realized on 
dating apps what a lot of these guys 
want which is somebody very young and I 
don't mean that in To Catch a Predator 
way but just like malleable maybe brain 
damage something's wrong with her kind 
of drunk super horny like just this kind 
of like what I don't know any man who 
likes her is not going to like me an 
outspoken person with needs and a soul 
and them connecting to her even if it's 
as a bit says something there's a bit of 
social commentary in a fair amount of 
social commentary in there as well like 
when I was myself on dating apps when I 
was funny and I had a perspective and 
expectations I had a very different time 
on dating apps that's what I will 
say 
