[Music] 
as true to bellagandi i am super excited 
and psychotically optimistic to 
talk to you about dating and anxiety so 
today i'm bringing you one of my 
partners in crime my colleagues in love 
eileen collins anxiety plagues most 
people at different times right nobody 
says i'm anxious and someone near them 
says what do you mean or what is that 
how many times have you heard i'm 
getting back into dating and i'm so 
anxious about it anxiety is meant to 
keep us on our a-game but what we want 
you to do is not have that bad anxiety 
while you're dating that either makes 
you shut down the app you think that you 
could never date because you're too 
scared of the rejection scared of what 
if they don't like me scared of how am i 
gonna exit this date if it's not going 
well it's like you're forcing your brain 
into what is happening around me right 
freaking now 
