[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back I am so excited to bring 
you this week's episode if I talk about 
fixing your picker this episode is going 
to blow your mind because it's going to 
be like fix your freaking picker because 
Dr Rock bad is Our Guest today and she 
is I mean she's the chair what you are 
the chair of the Department of Sociology 
at Manhattan College she's amazing she's 
a doctor her name is Roxana bad DOA and 
so we're gonna go by Dr rockbat and she 
is going to talk about attachment on 
steroids which is called family 
constellation therapy which is how all 
of this stuff 
from our families not just Mom and Dad 
comes into play with all of the [ __ ] 
that we do in our lives or we don't do 
so Dr rockbat thank you for being here 
hey y'all um yeah I'm Dr Roxana bad DOA 
and as Bella mentioned I'm an inherited 
family trauma Liberation scholar and I'm 
a professor of women and gender studies 
and critical race and ethnicity studies 
and the chair of the sociology 
Department at Manhattan College I am 
also a mother to like wonderful Fierce 
energy beings and so you know what all I 
mean what that what this all means is 
that I think study write and teach about 
and identify and resolve generational 
woundedness and 
vulnerabilities otherwise known as 
traumas that impact how people show up 
in their relationships particularly 
romantic ones and how people operate in 
the world with others I use a specific 
therapeutic method known as family 
constellations and I've been doing this 
for almost 20 years now Family 
constellation therapy so let's so let's 
put some let's put a definition around 
that we talk about attachment Theory 
right and attachment Theory has been 
made pretty mainstream now through a lot 
of books a lot of videos but typically 
people talk about attachment is 
something that happens to us based on 
our relationships with our parents from 
zero to five right and but family 
constellation therapy or family 
constellations what you believe and what 
I completely subscribe to is it goes 
well beyond that it's not just Mom and 
Dad it's Mom and Dad siblings people 
that are alive that are not alive 
grandparents and how all of those 
traumas can be experienced by us as well 
like talk to us about this yeah yeah so 
let me tell you um let me tell you a 
little bit more about family 
constellation um so family constellation 
therapy is psychotherapy that's like no 
other it's it's like Psychotherapy on 
Red Bull with like a shot of espresso 
girl that is my 
speed so it merges it merges known 
psychotherapeutic models you know like 
behavior therapy and it includes 
inherited family trauma and here's the 
kicker along with indigenous 
epistemology which prioritizes the role 
of our ancestors in Our Life Choices so 
most definitely there is a critically 
important spiritual component in family 
constellation therapy and I want to tell 
you about two basic assumptions that 
inform family constellation therapy the 
first one is shaped by Austrian 
psychotherapist Alfred Adler and he 
argued that there are bonds and a sense 
of belonging that exists within a family 
tree and the second one is by German 
psychotherapist Bert helinger and he 
posits that our problems and issues 
stift through generations to cause 
stress in our lives and so for me I take 
this to mean that how we operate in 
relationships especially romantic ones 
and how we show up in the world they're 
informed by generational generational 
familiar generational familial patterns 
and I I want to make a point here um it 
is true that Adler and helinger brought 
family constellation into popularity but 
this psychotherapeutic model is informed 
by indigenous epistemology so I really 
want to respect uh indigenous 
epistemology and the ancestors because 
the reality is helinger learned while 
living in South Africa in the 1950s that 
the Zulu right right yeah buried their 
dead in their homes in reverence of 
their ancestors and so the 
inment of the dead and the living gives 
rise to this modern psychotherapeutic 
model and so so for me uh family 
constellation is it's a systemic and 
psychospiritual therapeutic model that 
reveals the hidden intergenerational 
Dynamics in a family 
a relationship a 
situation and my therapeutic approach is 
towards balancing or 
neutralizing or what I call liberating 
the system and so simply put I identify 
patterns of generational traumas in 
family lines and I work to create 
relationship 
interactions that are authentically 
supportive and 
nourishing 
I love that I love that so much and 
Define what is it 
epistemology it's not epistemology is 
knowledge it's knowledge 
production and so uh we are very quick 
particularly in the US a lot of uh 
mental health healing 
practices um are considered 
European uh but in fact the root is 
these healing practices come from 
indigenous communities so the knowledge 
is 
indigenous I love that okay great so 
okay go like this is 
so fascinating so it goes well beyond 
just Mom and Dad but it makes a lot of 
logical sense right because our 
parents are the products of their 
parents and their extended family units 
right and so what you're saying is so 
rich and so Broad and I love I love the 
perspective that it brought to me I when 
you and I first connected over the phone 
several weeks ago to decide on doing 
this podcast together I was talking to 
my mom about family constellation 
therapy and we're like oh my gosh this 
is amazing why don't more people talk 
about 
this right right um so I think then it's 
really important since you and your mom 
were talking about you know why do you 
know let's let's let's think about doing 
doing this I think it's really important 
for me to share with the listeners a 
little bit about the process and kind of 
demystify uh how I do this work um so 
look apart from generalized talk therapy 
with couples and you know educating 
couples on uh collaborative 
communication 
strategies I use what I call trauma Ecom 
maps and genot traag so I'm going to 
take some time to to talk about trauma 
Ecom maps and genot trogs so um in a 
trauma ego map I ask for responses to 
three questions to assess how folks have 
chosen to show up in the world and I do 
so by creating a Topography of their 
relationships so topography meaning a 
map right I create a map and the three 
driving questions are who's important in 
your life where do you spend most of 
your time and what groups memberships do 
you hold so I use these three relational 
threads to determine strength and 
weaknesses of bonds 
uh the direction of the relationship 
energy right whether the relationship is 
reciprocal or not and I also look for 
stress bonds so the trauma Ecom map 
shows me where and how someone is 
showing up in the world where they're 
putting in too much energy where there 
might not be enough 
energy so for example if I came into you 
and I'm like I'm having like I can't get 
this right Dr Rock I have dated and 
married narcissist or avoidance people 
that aren't good for me you would ask me 
those three questions as a starting 
point I would ask you those three 
questions yes because I want to know 
what your support system looks like and 
what decisions you've made about where 
you've decided to put your energy so if 
you saw my trauma Ecom map most of my 
energy goes into my work world because 
that's where I'm most comfortable but 
then that means that some of my other 
connections are a lot weaker all right 
right right I would probably be in that 
same quadrant for example yeah yeah yeah 
yeah a lot a lot of us a lot of us make 
those choices because it's just more 
comfortable for us right we don't want 
to think about the other stuff because I 
get to do this at work I love what I do 
and then I don't need to think about my 
intimate Partnerships and my role as a 
mother I don't need to think about that 
that much because they make me 
uncomfortable sure 100% so yeah so Sor 
go ahead no I was going to say that e 
well there's the trauma Eco map but then 
there's also the genot traag which is my 
primary tool and with the genot trag 
with what your mom and you were talking 
about 
I assess three at least three 
generations of a family lineage and I 
ask questions around marriages and debts 
and siblings and pregnancies right I 
asked questions about like abortions and 
miscarriages uh mental health family 
illness violent historical events right 
and I I compile all of this together and 
I use the genot traag to ident ify what 
is known as a break in the bond with 
caregivers in the lineage that is my 
first intervention right with caregivers 
in the lineage the and the reason that I 
do the reason I do this is because my 
work is driven by attachment Styles and 
attachment Styles go in overdrive as you 
know in 
romantic 
relationships so um so I follow the work 
of Balby and answorth right so John John 
Balby argues as as you know that we're 
that we're we're pre-programmed to form 
attachments with others as a function of 
survival and Mary anworth argued our 
attachment style is dependent on the 
behavior our mother showed us so one of 
the ways I use this 
framework is to explore our 
relationships to our mothers in the womb 
okay I explore relationships to our 
mothers in the womb and I look for 
something called a core negative 
statement so I have a lot of patients 
who will say something to the effect no 
one will love me right I'm unlovable 
right that's the statement and so then I 
use this statement to engage in inner 
child therapy and with a concept called 
The Knowing field in family 
constellation therapy to therapeutically 
work with three different anchors I work 
with the physical I work with the 
mental and I work with the emotional and 
I use these three anchors to support an 
argument or my positionality and my 
argument is that our womb environment 
informs how connected we feel to our 
external environment and how safe we 
feel in relationships particularly 
romantic 
ones so look work working with me is a 
highly emotional like embodied 
experience because I work to release 
whatever needs to be released from our 
bodies so that we can move forward in 
life with our 
emotions in functional manner it's 
amazing I mean what you're saying to 
some extent makes so much sense and we 
don't think about it in this way the 
environment when you're a little you 
know what do you call it a fetus or an 
embryo you're a baby right we're all we 
all come from a uterus right and now if 
you think about what was your mom going 
through during her pregnancy right and I 
can tell you for example my parents are 
immigrants and my mom met my dad on a 
Sunday they were engaged on Thursday 
married 72 hours later then he went back 
to the United States she joined him nine 
months later after living in a stressful 
environment with her in-laws and 
basically had married a stranger went to 
a strange country was incredibly 
homesick and then got pregnant with me 
so now think about all of like what this 
and she was 
21 right and so if you think about all 
of the things that were going on in her 
body that high levels of stress maybe 
fight or flight what you're saying makes 
so much sense and I love it because and 
tell me I'm off track here you can 
have three different children right two 
the same parents but three kids can come 
out completely differently yet and we 
always say well it's on the parents but 
there's so much more to this yeah yeah 
yes and your story and my story is the 
same my mom came here at 21 I mean this 
is what I this is what I want us to 
think about my mom's in a new country 
like yours she got pregnant with me she 
doesn't speak the language fluently yet 
she's disconnected from her from her 
family unit and my dad is off doing 
doing his you know my dad was a surgeon 
he's off doing his job it's at the 
hospital all the time and she's scared 
[ __ ] she's young she's 21 and no friends 
yeah no support system and coming from a 
culture that is an extended family 
culture right there are cousins and 
aunts and uncles and grandparents and 
people everywhere to coming to complete 
isolation exactly EXA exactly and so you 
and I I'm sitting here just kidding 
right you and I were both sitting in 
wombs that were stressed and so you can 
you can bet that the cortisol levels 
were up right her adrenaline was pumping 
and so that means that that that is our 
chemical makeup too wow and that has a 
tremendous effect right so it's not just 
did my mom attend to me from zero to 
five it's like what's your own DNA what 
was the environment like in your womb 
all of this stuff is crucial in thinking 
about so to some extent what we've been 
thinking about with our Pickers could be 
sort of oversimplified like the biology 
part has been greatly oversimplified yes 
and I'll and I'll talk I'll talk more 
I'll talk more about that in a bit 
because we tend 
to uh we tend to choose people um whom 
we can uh redo our initial I call it the 
original sin but what I mean by that is 
our initial trauma we try to work that 
out with our partners I'll talk about 
that in in a talk about it if you want 
right now go there that's so fascinating 
right so um take it away yeah okay cool 
uh let me let me actually first though 
because we are talking because you 
mentioned DNA let me clarify something 
about family constellations and it has 
to do with um epigenetics because 
essentially Bella what you what you 
tried to express is that our ancestors 
I'm I'm giving it different language our 
ancestors uh impact our relationships 
and they impact uh how we can love in 
our relationship and so I want to 
briefly talk about epigenetics right 
because this work is tied to epigenetics 
and my research is tied to epigenetics 
Define epigenetics for people that don't 
know what that is for sure okay so 
simply put um epigenetics is a study of 
how our environment can modif ify our 
gene 
expression and cause changes to the ways 
in which our genes work across 
Generations um so as an 
example with my with my eldest child my 
daughter who's now 
19 I had 
um I had a deeply high-risk pregnancy 
with her and she she was in stress and 
so for the first three months she was 
literally starving um along with other 
things that were happening so I was 
under stress she was under stress and 
that impacts how she operates in the 
world and so my daughter 
um because she didn't eat for 3 months 
she doesn't know this um but she has um 
this particular relation ship with food 
which is tied to the fact that she was 
starving for 3 months right and so that 
so all of this plays into how she shows 
up in the 
world yeah so um I'll tell you a little 
bit about Dr Rachel Yehuda study because 
she is one of the most uh famous 
epigeneticist in this country and she 
has some groundbreaking research on 
children of Holocaust Survivors and 
pregnant women who survived the 911 
attacks in New York and so Dr Yehuda 
found genetic changes um that stem from 
the trauma um suffered by Holocaust and 
911 survivors and that these change gene 
expression was passed on to their 
children and so the offsprings were more 
prone to depression and anxiety compared 
to the general population and this 
informs secure Pure avoidant or anxious 
attachment Styles and my own research my 
current research it continues to 
demonstrate that our and I really want 
everyone to hear this our personal 
experiences are not merely individual 
and 
insular our experiences are embedded 
within our family system and our family 
system is entangled with National 
History so my family system is tied with 
the partition in the Indian subcontinent 
right and so so my anal connection my 
ancestral Connection in this world is 
historically tied to forced 
migration and 
immigration wow yeah and what this means 
is that how we show up in the world and 
how we engage in 
relationships is unconsciously informed 
formed by our family 
system across 
Generations 
wow wow amazing and and how this can 
affect your relationships not just with 
people but your mental health your 
anxieties your addictions your 
relationships to food your relationships 
to lots of vices right I mean it's it's 
a ounding yeah yeah yeah yeah um let me 
go back to your original question 
because we were talking about attachment 
Styles and uh how people choose partners 
and they're recreating the what I call 
the original sin um so so love I know 
this is going to sound weird but love 
and Trauma are intimately 
intertwined um I I argue that they're in 
an un happy romantic 
partnership and so um what I mean by 
this is that our personal and inherited 
traumas create a landscape or a 
blueprint for our ability to 
love and so family constellation work 
shows me that we attempt to get what we 
didn't get from our 
caregivers um and we are almost 
almost always drawn to someone who will 
reenact our childhood traumas for 
us and so um my vision is to uncover 
generational trauma that the person 
recreates through attachment Styles and 
whom they tend to 
romantically gravitate to so give us 
some classic examples around this sure 
sure sure sure so um okay so let me say 
this 
90% 90% of what's going on in a 
relationship is baggage that we are 
bringing in from our family of origin 
and our ancestral lineage and so the 
work that I do is to help folks identify 
the baggage and areas of codependency 
that's what I find right and I'm trying 
to assess what the person is trying to 
recreate in an intimate relationship to 
have their 
unresolved needs 
met and 
so we bring into our 
relationship how we were 
encouraged or discouraged to show up in 
the world and and there is a common 
dynamic right so this is the example 
there's a common Dynamic that informs 
distressed relationships and it's it's 
explained by something called the 
Cartman drama triangle so there are 
three positionalities in a relationship 
most often there's The Rescuer which is 
you know let me fix it for you right 
this person needs to be needed this is 
me by the way I'm The 
Rescuer same yeah I'm The Rescuer then 
there's the persecutor and the 
persecutor is it's all your fault right 
angry 
controlling and then there's the victim 
the poor me the helpless 
powerless not 
responsible but here's the 
thing we don't just take one of these 
positions we rotate these positions in 
our relationship right we we both do in 
the relationship and we rotate a 
according to what we feel our needs are 
at that moment sure so this is the 
reason why I look for that core negative 
image right I'm not lovable right no one 
will love me I'm not deserving of love 
this is like the most common 
stuff and what I'm trying to what I'm 
trying to argue is that people who 
believe they are unlovable as an example 
they will attract people who will 
confirm that 
yeah right right right so I ask couples 
ask couples and act and and and people 
who are interested in I I work with a 
lot of folk who are like I can't find my 
person I can't be in a relationship I 
you know what's going on why can't I 
find someone and so I ask folks to 
become deeply curious 
about how much is from wounded childhood 
and generational inherited trauma 
versus what their partner is doing or 
what their past partners have done and 
the reason I do this is because my goal 
is to end the projections because the 
the Cartman triangle it's a projection 
those three positionalities are 
projections and what I want to do is 
create differentiation 
right differentiation within 
relationships it's a different way I 
want to show people or what I try to do 
is show people a different way um of 
operating in the world so so basically 
getting rid of the old operating system 
and inserting a new operating 
system and you can do 
that I can do that but let me let me 
rephrase that um 
versus saying I can do that I can help 
facilitate that because the 
work is not mine right I'm not here to 
heal you yeah I'm here to provide a 
space where you can do the work and I 
will facilitate it yeah I don't claim to 
know look Bella I don't claim to know 
anything you know I can help take those 
pieces 
and put together a landscape so that you 
can see in front of you what it is and 
where you want to 
go right right right and you give people 
better tools so that they can you know 
shift out of the drama triangle into a 
healthier role yeah that's exactly right 
the question is you know how do you want 
to show up in the world now now that you 
know all of this yeah how do you want to 
show up now and it's okay if you don't 
want to show up differently it's not 
good or bad each choice has particular 
consequences and 
results but instead of Behaving from 
autopilot and auto programming when you 
ask your patient or you I ask myself 
let's say if I was your patient how do I 
want to show up right now that's 
conscious yeah instead of becoming the 
victim or the persec computer or The 
Rescuer it's like how do I want to be 
right now how does Bella want to be okay 
she wants to be The Rescuer or does she 
want to turn into the coach instead of 
The 
Rescuer right right and I want to fix it 
for my kids but then there are times 
where I'm like I have to teach you to be 
a competent independent adult like how 
are you going to fix that how can I help 
you yeah versus just doing it so going 
from rescuer to coach right right and so 
just putting more words to or framing it 
it's being intentional and deliberate 
you said conscious that's exactly right 
being intentional the work that I do is 
intent is to be 
intentional and deliberate about the 
choices that we are making um and how 
we're showing up in 
situations that are relational in 
nature and what I love is that you have 
people think Beyond mom and dad you know 
it's like for me like I can think about 
gosh most of my grandparents are pasted 
at this point but what were they going 
through what did they go through and if 
you don't have three generations you 
know back for me it's like you can you 
do the best that you can with the 
information that you have right and so 
what like let's say someone comes to you 
and says okay my my grandparents were 
Holocaust Survivors right and my mom's a 
little nutty and neurotic maybe behaves 
narcissistically or unpredictably and I 
continue to pick the wrong people like 
that could be something you know and if 
you're not a holocaust Survivor you 
could be survivors of the Great 
Depression you could be like my parents 
and have immigrated or your parents that 
were partitioned there is so much trauma 
in the world but it's really naming it 
and being aware of it and then looking 
at the impact that it has on you and 
that's something that you help people to 
do right you would have me Define all of 
the things that my people have gone 
through and then you're like well here's 
your stuff and here's how you might show 
up is that how you want to show up and 
I'll probably be like no you're like 
well here's how you could show up 
instead am I getting it right no you're 
totally getting it right and I love the 
way you described it you know because 
you're like here here's my stuff and so 
the way that I think about it is you 
know it's this huge napsack that you're 
carrying and it gets heavier with each 
generation and so you you know you you 
can't stand up straight anymore because 
the napsack is too heavy yeah so my work 
is let's get everything out of the 
napsack and see what it 
is that's so interesting that's so 
interesting it's funny this is a 
personal side note for you dear 
listeners i h I'm super 
claustrophobic and I had to get an MRI 
for my spine and I've tried a closed MRI 
and an Open MRI cannot go in the tube I 
just walk out of the facility I as my 
son says I'm an MRI failure my mother 
has the same strange fear the first time 
she went into an MRI tube she explod she 
sobed like someone was killing her and I 
was as we were talking about this 
constellation therapy this was a 
conversation my mom and I had like why 
do we both have this irational fear and 
my brother doesn't he just told me I got 
a full body MRI today I was like I'm 
kind of jealous but I you they're like 
we can give you Xanax for that I'm like 
you don't know my brain Xanax I like 
you'd have to put me under General 
freaking anesthesia to get me in that 
tube and I don't know why but this is 
the kind of stuff I'm guessing that you 
can TR back back to something yes yes 
and I I can for a moment speak to 
claustrophobia because I have a similar 
situation speak to it the MRIs are like 
no [ __ ] my personal therapy session 
you so um part of for my family 
consolation is that you know my my 
grandmother during one of the partitions 
of the Indian subcontinent had to go 
into hiding and was in a very small 
space wow and so this was passed down 
through my mother and then it was pass 
down to me and in fact if you look if 
you think about um being in the womb and 
if you think about um multiple 
Generations living in one body because 
when my grandmother is pregnant with my 
mother and my mother is about four or 5 
months old in in utero she's produced 
the egg that is going to be me one day 
so in in effect there's three 
generations living in one body in one 
moment and so all of the stress that my 
grandmother experiences from 
partition right is encoded in my mom's 
DNA which is then encoded in the egg 
that is going to become me this is 
epigenetics holy crud like my mind is 
blown at this I can't I can't close like 
I can't close the doors to bathrooms 
either like I I just like I I don't 
close the doors to my bedrooms I I don't 
close any doors I can't I can't handle 
it I feel like I'm going to stop 
breathing oh my God literally and my 
kids know it they laugh at me they're 
like you're so crazy and they're fine 
and my brother's fine and my dad is fine 
and my mom I don't know like there's 
some and I was like I might just have to 
die and before I get an M because I'm 
not going in the tube are you the first 
are you the first daughter yes okay so 
first born first daughter so same here 
and so this it usually the first 
daughter takes on it there's a long 
history and theory behind this which I 
won't get into but just very briefly 
it's the first daughter that takes on a 
lot of the mom's trauma so my mom takes 
on my my grandmother's trauma I take on 
my mom's trauma as firstborn the 
firstborn daughters we get the biggest 
dose that's actually that's exactly what 
I'm saying we we get the biggest dose 
great no wonder so my brother escaped 
the scourge of claustrophobia CU I took 
it all from my 
mom I know like we're being funny about 
this and you know but this is this this 
is exactly it wow and and so much of the 
way that we show up in relationships can 
be something that's you know epigenetic 
right I mean it doesn't just have to be 
my mom did this my dad did this so it's 
really this is such a a a broader way to 
think about who we are in the world and 
how we show up in romantic relationship 
so what tell me you 
know what advice like if you had someone 
in your office that was having trouble 
with their picker finding love like are 
there some things that you can give you 
know our dear listeners at home that 
they can start to think about that they 
can start to 
do yeah absolutely 
um I ask most most people who come to 
see me I ask them to deeply s in sit in 
a space and think about and this might 
also sound weird but I have people think 
about love and what they think love is 
what demonstrates love um in essence I I 
work to have folks OPP operationalize 
love for themselves right and so I use 
this as a pinpoint to start thinking 
help them think through what it is that 
they think they need from others and 
then connect that to um why they why 
they think they need that so so for me 
for example um my history of 
understanding love is that someone needs 
needs to uh take care of everything for 
me that demonstrates love right so my 
understanding of of Love is most 
definitely informed by codependency take 
care of me because I can't take care of 
myself and 
so this is actually in my therapeutic 
practice the million dooll question 
right what what what is love and I think 
over the years I've come to have a 
different understanding and love of love 
and so I follow um I follow a 
psychiatrist Dr M scottc guidance on how 
I want to understand love and I help my 
patients get to this point yeah right I 
love him so you you're familiar with his 
1978 book um the roadless track 
right it was a college Bible for me my 
mom says it revolutionized her world as 
well yeah absolutely and so this this 
book like I have multiple copies of this 
book like in my office so that you know 
so that I can have people like look 
through it and so is it okay if I talk a 
little bit about how um how PEC defines 
love 100% And I want you to take some 
notes my sweet listener right now 
because this is some big [ __ ] that's 
coming so you you first of all you all 
need to get The Road Less Traveled right 
this is exactly as Bella said it is the 
Bible of love and so so pre actually 
borrows from Eric FR who's a German 
social psychologist to um understand 
what love is and I love this definition 
of love it's the 
will the will to extend one's self right 
the will to extend 
oneself for the purpose of nurturing 
one's 
own or another's spiritual growth 
there's a couple of key words here 
will 
extension and nurturing 
oneself or nurturing another's spiritual 
growth and the reason that I adore I 
completely adore this conceptualization 
of love because it Honors that love is a 
choice versus how we understand it as an 
instinct right so I love that love is a 
choice versus an instinct and peek in 
fact writes love is an act of will I 
love this love is an act of Will and he 
says that it's both an 
intention and an 
action and what I think is brilliant is 
that we don't have to love we choose to 
love love is a decision yes love is a 
decision right it's a verb it's not a 
feeling right right that's exactly what 
he says right and so that's exactly what 
he says and exctly I remember being in 
college going oh my God my entire 
landscape shifted because wait it's not 
a feeling I thought that's what I've 
been told my whole life it's a feeling 
do you feel like you're in love and 
that's where I'm like this is all 
nonsense these butterflies this wanting 
to be swept off my feet I land on my 
back every time I get swept off my feet 
it never ends well so I'm 
choosing to do something that's good for 
him or good for myself but it's an 
action and a decision it's not a feeling 
because I can say I love you but still 
be a jerk that's not love yeah yeah this 
is this is exactly right and so these 
statements like I've fallen in love or 
I'm falling in love I'm 
like do you fall do you want to be fall 
falling right so there's some so there's 
something that we need to to to rethink 
here and so you know when I hear these 
statements I'm falling in love or I've 
fallen in love 
um for me I think about love as okay so 
here's how so that that was Peck and 
from so H how do I Define love in my 
words how does Rock bad Define love 
exactly so for me love is an 
intentional and deliberate practice of 
showing up in the 
world fully and I want to operationalize 
fully what I mean by fully 
is to me love is developing a capacity 
okay developing a capacity to show up in 
our lives to engage in you know the good 
bad and ugly with 
Fidelity versus recoiling into passivity 
and disconnection 
where there's no room to move deeper 
into one's life beyond the standard you 
know bitterness anger resentment and of 
course Nar and narcissism right so this 
is what I mean by living Our Lives fully 
love is about living Our Lives fully 
okay love is about living Our Lives 
fully to be willing to step into the 
world and offer our yourselves without 
fear and create interactions that are 
authentically supportive and nourishing 
even if that intersection interaction is 
for one one minute versus 55 
years exactly because you've 
decided to have that interaction which 
could be with you know a a homeless 
person on the street or or your mother 
of 55 
years yeah that's that's exactly right 
and I'm actually glad you brought up the 
the example of a person who's 
experiencing homelessness because here's 
what we most often do and this is 
especially true in New York um we don't 
want to make eye 
contact and I'm saying that we don't 
need to offer money we don't need to 
offer food 
we can make a 5-second connection 
through eye contact to 
acknowledge that person's existence yes 
and that's an act of Love 100% you will 
never right if somebody looks dangerous 
nobody's saying make eye contact with 
someone that looks like they're strung 
out and could hurt you but if someone's 
sitting on a corner they're human right 
and you can look at them and you can 
smile and Nod and keep walking on your 
way and a lot of times and I do that as 
practice and they'll say thanks for the 
smile right it's like most people will 
just walk past and and again I'm not 
suggesting you do this I'm just saying 
how do you show up what does that mean 
to you in that moment how do you choose 
to love do you love yourself are you 
loving someone else but love is an 
action it's not a feeling what do you do 
for someone else that's right that's be 
that's beautiful and for ourselves which 
you already said for ourselves yeah 
right because if I want to do good 
people sometimes argue isn't it selfish 
because you're reaping benefit out of 
when you do something good for somebody 
else you're like oh I feel like a good 
person but that's 
selflove that's selflove it's not 
selfish right it comes into definition 
of Love yeah no this is exactly right 
and I'm glad you you youve brought this 
to the Forefront because I also want to 
dellink um 
our our contemporary Notions of 
self-love which is tied to like I don't 
know go go do yoga go to spa and you 
know get 
yeah exactly yeah that's not that's 
that's self care it's not self love yeah 
right take care of yourself get get 
eight hours of sleep but that's not 
self-love that's self- care yeah right 
taking a shower is 
self-care yeah that's exactly right self 
self- love to me right is about making a 
choice and if the the choice is you 
don't make it it's about about making a 
choice to show up with honor with 
dignity and respect and it's not a 
one-time thing we need to make this 
Choice over and over again and then 
there will be times where we can't I 
have I have fallen down on my knees and 
be like please don't leave please don't 
or please forgive me I I've done all of 
that we all have we've all been there 
okay we've all been there on our knees 
and all right today I didn't an act with 
dignity but tomorrow I'll make the 
choice or maybe the next day exactly 
well and speaking of that tell me you 
know we've talked about love what is 
trauma okay and what is the relationship 
between romantic love and Trauma let's 
kind of circle back to why we pick 
people that don't always serve us like 
talk about love and Trauma sure okay so 
I this question about you know this 
question you know what is trauma I 
actually think this is like the golden 
the Golden question of the day and the 
reason I think this is the golden 
question of the day is because I find 
the word trauma is 
overused and in a way that is loose such 
that it becomes devoid of meaning and so 
and I think this is particularly true in 
the context of coid you know we 
we've lost a meaningful 
conceptualization of trauma like like 
everyone admits trauma and we use the 
word trauma in a sloppy way that it can 
mean almost nothing or absolutely 
everything and so here's the question I 
mean I will respond to it but the 
question that I want all all of us to 
think about is you know how might we 
think about trauma or like how should we 
think about trauma so so I'm inviting 
all of us to take a deliberate and 
intentional journey to understand what 
trauma might 
mean and so as a social scientist I've 
got that standard definition of trauma 
right to to me as a social scientist 
trauma means an internal response right 
to overwhelming 
pain grief hurt scare I talk about it in 
terms of ir reparable heartbreak right 
it's an internal response to irreparable 
heartbreak um a a a horrific experience 
that can't be processed in the 
now but I have another dimension that I 
add to it it can also be that it's not 
it can't be processed um now um and or 
over time across a single lifespan and 
or across Generations so the trauma 
doesn't have to be ours personally it 
could belong to my grandmother right so 
that's like one level to understand 
trauma I'd like I'd like to bring in um 
my role as an 
Interfaith and crosscultural Scholar 
who's committed to indigenous 
epistemology and Indigenous psychology 
to uh expand our understanding of trauma 
and so here's the expansion part I would 
love for us to include in trauma what is 
known as susto and the direct 
translation of susto from Spanish to 
English is 
scare and so the way that I work with 
trauma or understand trauma is I 
combine modern Psychotherapy with 
indigenous mental health healing 
practices and I see trauma As A 
disruption to our soul so I Define 
trauma As A disruption to our soul which 
uh in indigenous communities a variety 
of indigenous communities it's known as 
Soul fright or Soul loss from you know a 
sudden shock or startling experience 
that 
interrupts our Vital substance or life 
force which is often known like asqi or 
you know Prana 
and 
so so for me trauma is a disruption to 
the soul which could happen at the 
personal level but trauma is also 
generational so I really want us to 
think about trauma 
collectively we have our own and 
everybody's before us yes exactly and 
the historical moment of which we are 
which we are products of right so you 
know our children your your your your 
children and my children their uh their 
youth is a product of the pandemic right 
so this is this needs to be included in 
uh understanding trauma as 
generational and so the way that I would 
invite all of you to think about a 
generational trauma is that we are born 
into a 
world that 
imprinted with pain right imprinted with 
grief hurt scare heartbreak and horror 
so we are we we are born into a cultural 
Dimension that is 
imprinted with grief and so that informs 
our trauma our personal trauma is 
informed by our generational 
trauma right and it can even be right it 
can be independent of it but it's it's 
certainly like you can have things that 
happen to you because they happen to you 
and they suck and it's not because of 
anything that your ancestors experience 
it's like this just happened to me and 
it's freaking sucked I got cancer or I 
lost a baby or whatever that is which 
you know is just and now my children and 
their children will feel 
that that's absolutely right and yes 
there are many there are many forms of 
trauma that are um individual to us um 
at the same time I'd like to temper that 
because what family constellation has 
taught me is our individual 
traumas um are also informed by 
something that has happened in the past 
in our in our Generations in our past 
Generations right because we might be 
more susceptible to certain things we 
might behave in a certain way way based 
on what we're carrying already yes and 
we may be called oh you're so sensitive 
it's like but I might not be maybe or 
maybe I am sensitive because I'm 
carrying around a lot of 
intergenerational stuff with me yes yes 
and this all this stuff that you're 
talking about informs our attachments 
style which then informs how we are 
unconsciously choosing to show up in our 
relationships wow isn't that amazing and 
how we choose people to your point that 
reenact the original sin so meaning 
either I'm going to put words in your 
mouth and you can correct me either a 
dysfunctional relationship with one of 
our caregivers our mom or our dad or 
maybe even early relationship 
that no this is exactly right so it can 
stem from the womb and mo most likely it 
stems from the womb but it can also be 
it can also be something as simple as 
you were separated from your mom in the 
hospital because you were sick as soon 
as you were born and so your mom didn't 
get to hold you for the first couple of 
hours that is a break in the bond and 
that informs our attachment style so I 
so my attachment Style 
my mother had uh a very traumatic 
pregnancy with me I was a twin um and 
the my twin didn't survive and so my 
attachment style is very anxious when is 
this person Gonna Leave me when is this 
person Gonna Leave Me Hold on don't go 
don't go don't go that's that's my 
attachment style 
totally I hear you I I didn't even have 
a twin and I feel that way so so I can 
only imagine how right you had someone 
else in the womb with you potentially if 
it was an idal twin exactly 
exactly and so my twin left my twin left 
so to your point my twin left so with my 
partners my my my emmo has always been 
if you love me you will do everything 
for me otherwise you don't love me yeah 
right right 
isn't that so interesting and I love 
sitting down and really thinking what 
does love mean to me and sometimes 
people like to use the five love 
languages use that as a primer right but 
think about what makes me feel loved by 
a romantic 
partner yeah long term not right away 
and it probably maybe it has to do with 
flowers maybe it doesn't but really 
sitting there and thinking about what 
that safe secure love feels like and for 
a lot of us listening I know you've 
never felt that safe secure love you 
don't even know what that feels like 
yeah and there in comes the recreation 
of trauma yeah no this is this is 
exactly right and I I'll say this for 
myself because I don't want to speak for 
others 
um for me so I'm I'm almost 50 like I'm 
pushing 50 and so in these decades these 
past decades the question that I really 
needed to ask myself 
is what I expect from my 
partners am I able to give that to 
myself most of the time the answer was 
no it wasn't until 
recently that everything that I expected 
from my partner that I could say well 
you know what I can offer this to my 
myself because it's from there that I 
can form a safe connection with my 
partner because you can give it to 
yourself so you don't fear it being 
taken away from you precisely brilliant 
that's exactly what I'm saying amazing 
amazing and so really sitting with 
yourself right and what's an exercise we 
can do to this just sit with that and 
what's a question to ask for now to to 
sit with that right a much of this work 
I'm not I'm not arguing that there 
aren't techniques and theories and 
methods involved but much of this work 
does rely on us 
acknowledging what is and being able to 
engage with that with Fidelity right 
honoring the good and honoring the bad 
and honoring the ugly so part of this 
work a large part of this work is 
acknowledging what is yeah and I'm not 
trying to glorify Med you know sit in 
meditation on a mountain kind of thing 
that's not what I'm trying to argue uh 
but acknowledgement is the first step to 
see to see the truth of what 
is versus 
projecting it's so interesting you know 
I think I sometimes I have women that 
will come in and say well I need to 
marry or I need to find someone who 
makes at least this much money and has 
you know a PhD and an MD and you know 
and I'm I'm just talking about women for 
ex for a moment that are looking for men 
and there are times that this has become 
such a preoccupying issue and it's 
caused us to screen so many people out 
that I have said to them 
before you have an obsession with 
degrees or intelligence is there 
something inside of you that doesn't 
feel smart 
enough maybe you need to go back to 
school so so here's here's what I'll say 
to that so true or 
false yes and no okay yes and no so let 
me so let me respond to that so on a 
surface level right wanting you know X Y 
and Z completely okay that's their 
preference yeah but what I love about 
what I love about what you said is that 
you are interrogating them to think 
about their intentions and be 
deliberate so it's okay to have those 
preferences it's more important to 
understand why you have those 
preferences right to be intentional and 
deliberate and from there then you can 
make an informed choice about whether 
this is something that you want to stick 
with it's something that you can loosen 
up on what what Gap are you which is 
what you're I think arguing what Gap are 
you trying trying to 
fulfill having these 
requirements exactly like is there 
something inside of yourself because 
you're dating all these smart people 
like I don't understand yeah right and 
so um and so these conversations have 
really helped people to go okay what am 
I looking for and why why is this 
important to me is this something that I 
want to become but I haven't been able 
to do that so if I find it date it and 
marry it then that makes me successful 
if I don't feel successful enough but if 
I marry someone super successful or if I 
don't feel like I'm pretty enough but I 
marry someone that's really good-look 
then that must mean that I am good-look 
too and so it's like we reach around the 
back of our head to grab our ear instead 
of looking at what is yeah this is no 
this is exactly right and so I think 
here's what I think Bella that you are 
putting on the table for us and there's 
and it's two variables that I actually 
wanted to speak to and you've kind of 
just great made a great platform for it 
it's really vital like with this example 
that you gave it's really vital that we 
understand how we connect to people and 
how we communicate with others and why 
so to understand you know these 
requirements right this is the this is 
the platform of connection this is one 
of the platform of connection to really 
understand how we're connecting and why 
we're connecting in this way because 
connection con connectivity and 
communication are the two Central 
variables in in in our relationship with 
ourselves and to the outer 
World totally to I love this um you know 
what this you know this example that you 
gave 
I love this example because this is kind 
maybe it's a side note I don't know but 
I think it might be important um it 
reminds me of Thomas Hubble who's a 
spiritual author it reminds me how he 
defines trauma he talks about trauma 
trauma is 
inflicted by inappropriate 
relationships right right because you 
talking you you were kind you were 
arguing okay well is this appropriate or 
inappropriate 
right why don't you check yourself it's 
kind of what you're arguing totally 
right so I love this that huil argued 
that trauma is inflicted um by 
inappropriate relationships and I'm 
bringing this up because the mental 
mental health research and Indigenous 
psychology they teach us that we are 
forged through relationships and 
relationships are managed through 
stories so what story are we telling 
about ourselves 
and what EXA and to ourselves and to 
ourselves yeah yeah 
exactly brilliant I love 
it and 
um what do you think I mean you know 
it's one of the things I was thinking 
about it's so important for you dear 
single listener to really think deeply 
about this right like this was a 
freaking episode right like back and go 
wow it's not just my stuff it's like my 
parents my grandparents my siblings wow 
like how do who am I right how do I show 
up what do I need what does love feel 
like to me and then looking at what do I 
need from someone and what I love about 
what you said which one of those needs 
could I provide for myself holy cow like 
wow and what that does is that is the 
definition of selflove what do what have 
I been sitting here stewing about 
needing from someone else why can't I 
give it to myself what is that right 
yeah my mom to me we came into this 
world alone and we die 
alone yeah my mom my mom says the same 
thing but I'm like but wait you were 
there you were there m right right right 
like we go right we go like and so it's 
really interesting to really think 
deeply about who you are what traumas 
could have what trauma right your your 
inappropriate relationships with 
whatever that is in your background how 
are those playing out in your 
connections to other people and maybe 
it's not just romantic relationships 
maybe it's even with friends with 
siblings at work 
like at work is a big deal it's a really 
big deal right how do you deal with 
suppliers with service providers right 
with children with people you have power 
over think about do you show up 
differently in different situations and 
why and sit in that and I think that 
just knowing that if your picker's 
broken there's a lot more reasons than 
we ultimately entered this conversation 
it's not just Mom and Dad but it's lots 
of people before us as well as well as 
historically what's been happening as 
well that there's a fingerprint of that 
generationally so what a fascinating 
amazing conversation is there any last 
gems that you want to drop on our 
listeners yeah I think I'll wrap this up 
um before the wrap up though may may I 
Bella just uh maybe read re Orient I 
understand what you're saying about the 
Picker being broken may I reorient the 
language a little bit on that you may 
okay I would argue our Pickers are 
imprinted by those who came before us so 
I wouldn't necessarily argue um our 
Pickers are broken I don't I don't come 
from the platform of that we are broken 
I come from the platform that we are 
imprinted and how we behave and operate 
and make choices are 
imprinted uh by those who are 
standing behind us I work with a lot of 
women um and we end up because of the 
roles that our mothers have taken their 
you know our grandmothers have taken our 
great-grandmothers have taken we we end 
up uh with an imprint of being the 
caretaker and to be quite 
honest I don't like taking care of 
anyone but I feel this need to control 
and manage and caretake 
everyone even my colleagues at work like 
I run my department like that too 
because I'm imprinted with this does 
that my radar is imprinted with that 
right that even if you don't like it you 
don't enjoy it you have to to control it 
for the outcome that you want yeah 
that's that's no that's exactly right 
and then how do you connect with and 
show up with people that this is a whole 
episode two just on Dr Rock 
bad all right so let me I guess let me 
say some final 
um say some final words here so I don't 
want to give the impression that I'm 
here to save people right I'm not here 
to save people through you know the 
theories and techniques that I use as 
like the expert um I see my job as 
listening with all my senses to the 
story that is unfolding and how you know 
how the person is making sense of their 
experiences and so I see my job as 
helping to uncover Free Will agency and 
and and choice and 
I really ask two questions right when 
will you be ready to release old 
relationship patterns that are no longer 
serving you and then the second question 
is when will you be ready to be filled 
with the light of a new relationship 
pattern you know a new 
vibration and here's why I think this 
work is really important and it has 
nothing to do whether you're a parent or 
not or whether you want children or not 
um I do this work because I believe we 
have a responsibility to our youth and I 
think Bella you were alluding to this 
too and my world orientation is that 
it's imperative that we leave this world 
a better place than how we entered it 
versus compromising the lives of our 
children before like even before they 
arrive or other folks children just 
children in general right the youth in 
general and so I would say for those of 
us who in ending you know those of us 
who are searching for our romantic 
Partners I'm inviting all of you to 
think 
about to become aware of all 
possibilities of 
transformation like in each moment of 
Our Own own creation right I'll end 
there to think about all the 
possibilities of transformation in each 
moment of our own creation because it's 
not just about us it's about the imprint 
that we are going to leave behind right 
100% so knowing you're imprinted but you 
have agency as well to love to choose to 
act to take care of another or to take 
care of yourself the imprint has agency 
hashtag I think we should make t-shirts 
I love I love that yeah thank you this 
was yes yes yes yes to all of it oh 
thank you so much this was so super 
profound I I feel like I have a lot of 
thinking to do and I'm sure everybody 
listening also it's like think about 
think about who you are and where you've 
come from and how you come to the world 
super interesting so um well thank you 
so much for this awesome conversation 
and smart daters until next week I will 
have you think about all of these 
profound questions that we threw out 
there I hope you enjoyed this episode if 
you did and you're ready to finally make 
a change in your dating life and fix 
your imprinted 
picker go to Smart dating academy.com 
and set up a 
consultation Big Love and we'll see you 
next 
week 
