so I was married for 22 years to the 
love of my life he was amazing but I 
found myself a widow at 48 I was just so 
devastated by it that I just I didn't 
think I'd ever could go on again I went 
on match.com I was not meeting the right 
kind of people so I went out and I dated 
a lot of guys I don't know it was just 
bizarre and I think I saw you on Good 
Morning America so I thought I am going 
to go and meet these people and I'm 
going to find out about this service I'm 
going to find out what am I doing wrong 
and I thought I just got to find a 
better way Curtis was actually the first 
one believe it or not we really enjoyed 
each other's company we liked each other 
and so we decided to become exclusive 
and about a month later we did move in 
together it's never too late to find 
love never I was giving up the rest of 
my life and now I have all these 
experiences I have a life of joy and 
just it's exciting now again and I feel 
like I'm in the human race again where 
before I feel like I just checked out 
