her name is Anushka a Smart dating 
former client because now she's found 
the lead to her pot tell us how you got 
to where you are now I always had a 
clear idea in my mind from the time I 
was very little of like exactly what I 
wanted to achieve in life and then the 
timeline I wanted to achieve it on but 
as I started to get into like my late 
20s I started to question oh shoot this 
timeline I've set for myself on getting 
married and having kids is starting to 
look less and less realistic one of the 
people I started following someone on 
Instagram with the handle everything 
Erica and there were a couple episodes 
on the podcast where Bella was featured 
like oh my God I need This Woman's help 
and immediately like I started getting 
dates if you look back to early 2020 
would you have ever thought you'd be 
here never did I ever think that not 
only meet someone but like meet the 
person that I was going to spend the 
rest of my life with I'm still kind of 
shocked that I'm here 
