[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm bellagande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart taters welcome back to one of your 
favorite episodes today is the love 
story of all love stories you guys you 
are going to want to eat this girl up in 
the same way Eileen and I do because 
she's just precious and beautiful and 
I'm so delighted to introduce my 
former client present friend current 
client because we're always going to be 
in each other's lives from Florida is so 
awesome to have you thank you for being 
here 
thank you thank you for having me thank 
you so much oh my gosh this is such an 
honor to have you here to tell your love 
story so you guys a quick I'm gonna 
start out in kind of a a funny way 
because her story is so cute and it made 
me want to go back and research the very 
first moment that she reached out to us 
so I have in front of me the form that 
she filled out okay this is he's 
cracking up Monday May 3rd 2021 at 5 51 
PM we have very good notes 
um Sadaf says I'm 32. she's from Florida 
the subject wait for it I want to find 
love 
if you could see her face she just took 
a sip of water 
okay and our form says send us your 
question or what you're interested in 
I am a hopeless romantic I've been 
dating for a while but no luck we either 
break up or I just get tired I recently 
met a guy who I thought was Mr Right but 
he ghosted me and broke my heart I need 
someone to tell me what am I doing wrong 
why do I attract the wrong guys can you 
help I am ready to find love please help 
and it said how did you hear about us 
and it said YouTube so start off what 
were you watching on YouTube tell us I 
was watching Steve Harvey you were 
watching my you were watching Steve the 
comedian 
is like I need a good laugh 
he's so funny I was like you need a good 
laughing oh Bella got me I'm like wait 
her lasted I love never got any so I'm 
just like oh wait let me I have to click 
on this and just hear about it and I was 
like I love her and instead of just like 
research that I saw I think all your 
videos well if 
I might be lying on most of them like 
most of you that I could find that day 
there's a lot yeah there's a lot so this 
is like sad thing I watched it I'll 
watch the Ted Talk and everything I was 
like oh my God I love her I need her I'm 
like please spell it just help me 
oh my gosh so I think we connected the 
same day or very shortly so why don't 
you tell us at the stage kind of tell us 
about growing up and how you got to May 
3rd 2021 kind of give us your back story 
because it's very relatable sure well I 
mean just a little bit about me you know 
I was uh I was born in Iran and I moved 
uh with my family here when I was 15. so 
it was a very hard transition but you 
know that's got through that and it was 
it really you know I grew up in like 
another strict family there were my 
family were really like open loving just 
grew up like watching my parents just so 
like little love and this is the cutest 
relationship ever I'm like I wanna love 
like that I would tell my mom at the 
time I was like Hey I want to marry 
someone just like that and my mom would 
like make fun of me like now like in a 
bad way we just she was just like well 
it was just only one and I took him 
sorry 
my mom I was like God Mom God we need to 
recreate him 
and I was like I just because I just had 
such a good relationship with him you 
know his daddy's girl and 
so I wanted to be um just the final love 
like that respectful 
loving always just I never heard my 
parents argue like yell at each other 
scream at each other and I would just 
see my fans in relationships I'm like oh 
wow like people that this happened so I 
just I always look for that and you know 
when it came to dating 
um I thought I was going to 
and um 
and it just wasn't easy from the 
beginning it wasn't easy it was I would 
just 
I don't know I just attracted guys that 
were just not ready to settle down one 
is why not stand not that I was into 
that but it was kind of like it was just 
so obvious I had to like move on and 
then date someone else and then talk to 
someone else and just like 
I'm like I'm tired it's just and I love 
like well you know kind of living in 
Jacksonville 
it's there's not a lot of options it's a 
big town but it's not a lot of options 
it's just you go out and you see you see 
the same people over and over and over 
again so it's just could be exhausting 
right and you worked in the medical 
field back then yeah 
so yeah and I still I'm in nursing 
school right now because I decided to go 
back and it's been it's difficult oh 
yeah it is yeah 
well that's it 
so you you know I'm remembering and just 
kind of looking back at notes you said 
now at the point you emailed us you were 
32 and you said I always thought I would 
get married by the age of 25 and have my 
first child at 27. so now you're five to 
seven years beyond that at this point 
and now what was what was your perfect 
guy back in the day like who were you 
looking for like what was your checklist 
oh well he had to be for my country so 
that and also he had to be tall very you 
know muscular big and just like this 
cool dude and just showing off my feet 
and taking all through all these like 
vacations and all these places and that 
was the perfect guy to me that's like a 
Bollywood film yeah 
right exactly we're gonna go dance 
behind trees in the rain like a 
Bollywood so and so so you okay so now 
you're dating right you're looking for 
this tall muscular you know Persian hot 
sweep you off your feet kind of guy who 
were you who were you attracting who 
were you dating them 
I was I was attracting them but they 
were all narcissists oh 
oh narcissist is just so like I'm just 
like so perfect I'm this perfect guy you 
have to like listen to what I say we're 
controlling very uh manipulative you 
know like and I'm like wow this is not 
what I was looking for okay maybe just 
day outside of my race you know 
so I did that 
same thing it doesn't matter where 
they're from right narcissist is a 
narcissist amen sister 
foreign 
nothing it's just 
we're all the same and I was uh dating 
people I don't know why I attracted guys 
that were just not ready to settle down 
it wasn't I couldn't just 
it was just not ready to settle down and 
it was you know you you just so perfect 
and if you wanted someone to settle down 
with it would have been you I'm like 
well 
just 
see you like me and 
but oh they weren't ready or 
controlling manipulative like 
just not wanting something that I want 
did not want just we just wouldn't know 
we're not on the same way with you know 
like very 
and they started off great right and it 
wasn't unset month and I'm just they're 
just like yeah you know this could be 
casual like when like when I remember I 
first meeting I was just like telling 
you about this guy that he was just all 
like sewing to me take me to this most 
expensive restaurant do all these 
amazing things for me but then he was 
just like you know I'm really not 
ready to settle down I just want 
something casual I'm like oh yeah no I'm 
not like I'm 31 I don't want that's I 
would that that's something a 20 year 
old would do I'm not and I'm not ready 
for that like I don't want that I'm just 
and I was thinking like a guy who just 
treats you that way 
would be different but he he wasn't he 
was just like all of them they weren't 
just I dated someone who was who was a 
broker nothing just broke 
no no other people will like like 
someone who would though take me to just 
like you know a casual whatever 
restaurants 
or someone who take me to the most 
expensive places and 
the same didn't matter it was the same 
no it just doesn't matter it doesn't 
matter how they treat you what kind of 
car to pick you up in or what 
conversation they have it's just they're 
all just 
narcissists and 
I don't know I just I I would tell my 
friends I was like I don't know what is 
it about me that I just attract those 
people 
why why can I attract someone who's 
going to love me who is going to just 
be just loving but you know I did not 
realize until I started working with you 
guys that's all what I was looking for 
you know those guys who were like loving 
and all this that this good qualities 
those high quality men and 
I was not paying attention to them 
and that's a big shift you know for you 
dear listener is when you're saying I 
keep attracting the wrong person the 
change the reframe I want you to take in 
this is not I'm attracting the wrong 
people I am picking and accepting the 
wrong people right right we're always 
looking on the other side of the street 
oh well he's a narcissist he's doing 
this he's doing that but if I look at my 
side of the street my lawn it's like 
well I'm picking up 
I'm saying yes to them so hold on what 
is it and so and so that day so you had 
your last narcissist and now you're 31 
bad relationship you're watching Steve 
you go down a rabbit trail of watching 
my videos you call me and we decide 
you're like I'm ready to invest in 
myself let's do this yeah I said I'm 
just like I need someone to tell me what 
I'm doing wrong I need 
because I would I listened to your 
videos a lot and I was like yeah what 
she's saying makes sense and I need to 
do something differently and I don't 
know how to change that about myself and 
I need someone to check me like hey no 
this isn't right you're going back to 
your old ways so yeah so that's how 
that's what we're here 
my God and so so now this I talked to 
set up and like absolutely let's do this 
we signed up she's like this is a big 
leap for me this is investment but I'm 
ready to do this great so the next thing 
we do is we I think we did your photo 
shoot first or your jump start first 
my video life your photo shoot right 
photo shoot first yeah I go to Chicago 
and you guys you guys I have to tell you 
so I don't know who I'm seeing right she 
was like oh don't worry I'll be fine 
with my clothes I'm good we didn't know 
anything because we're like send us your 
clothes send us photos we didn't get 
anything I'm like okay I think this will 
be okay I walk into the studio this 
scrap dead gorgeous girl Michelle and 
Anissa are like uh we have a Victoria's 
Secret model in the studio 
stunning beautiful like t-shirt jean 
shorts cute little rompers like 
absolutely the most stunning person and 
what was so beautiful about you number 
one you don't even realize how stunning 
you are on the outside but your inner 
beauty and your fun and you bring what's 
so beautiful about you is you didn't 
bring 
anxiety or negativity to the process you 
came in and you were like this is 
amazing I'm here look at the camera big 
smiles walking down the street posing 
pop my lip do it all and this mindset 
that you came in with was infectious you 
had fun we had fun and I could see with 
you I don't think this is going to take 
that long but however what do I know I 
predict things sometimes they come true 
a lot of times I might say it'll happen 
for you in five weeks and it takes five 
years I don't have any predictability as 
to how long this is taking and if you're 
out there and you've been dating for 
three four five years it's okay right at 
a certain point the universe is going to 
say knock knock he's here the lid to 
your pot has arrived I can't predict 
that that's up to God in the universe 
but here this beautiful girl walks in we 
get these amazing pictures and by the 
time you're listening to this we're 
gonna have this gorgeous page on our 
site and you're gonna see I'm not 
exaggerating by these photos okay so 
um and so then the biggest transition 
came when you did your three-hour 
meeting 
yeah with Eileen right and what did you 
find out about your checklist that day 
I found out I 
I I'm really not 
letting because I think I did tell you 
about this that I'm not letting I'm not 
looking for 
those elevated people that you always 
talk about I'm not looking for those 
people 
and those are the people who make me 
happy that's because you know and I 
found out 
they are not getting to know the guys 
that I was going out on date with 
previously not taking time to get to 
know the real me 
right and that's what was different from 
with my you know my current fiance 
because he took the time to get to know 
me when it just that was and 
I did I would just pay attention of 
every little thing I'm not saying I'm 
picky because I mean I am but I don't 
know but I would just every little thing 
because I would just even like looking 
at his pictures online it was a picture 
of him and his dog who I love was just 
sitting right there 
guys with dogs and he had pit bulls I 
love pit bulls and he had a pitbull I 
didn't was like you should thank your 
dog because it was one of the reasons 
and he's very adventurous I never paid 
attention to that before that these are 
the things that will make me happy guys 
who are adventurous guys who will want 
to travel with me with me not just by 
themselves like oh hell we'll see you in 
a week we'll see you in two weeks we'll 
see you in a couple of days or I'll just 
hit you up when I come back and 
I didn't realize that I need someone who 
is going to support me 
to be there for me 
to just really make me feel comfortable 
in a way to 
um show him the size of me that 
I don't show a lot of people right right 
you know like he was just truly 
ask questions even like 
I feel like I because I dated a guy 
before him for four years and I don't 
even think he knows what's who's my 
favorite singer or what kind of music I 
like he does like just the basics that's 
the basics he knew nothing so hold on 
let's back up December sorry December 
2021 okay now we've been dating for 
months 
you're on it wasn't match it was match 
yes I mean I was on Bumble and but it 
wasn't really but I like match so much 
better like it was but because I could 
see a lot more like more just they would 
write about themselves like a read and 
just kind of you know because I was like 
oh okay I like this that's right and you 
you used our profile book and rewrote 
your profile 
amazing so good so cute and so now it's 
December 2021 you reach out to this man 
named James 
oh yeah I messaged him did you guys hear 
that did you guys hear that he didn't 
message her she proactively messaged him 
so often if a guy if I have to master 
them they don't like me as much I'm like 
no no no no okay tell us 
would be comfortable enough for like oh 
yeah okay I think I'll like this Matt 
ladies messaged him if you see something 
you like go after it go get it oh she's 
going to become a dating coach now be 
careful look at her here she is give us 
preach girl tell us what to do okay so 
you you messaged him and then what 
happened 
I was just like yeah I talked to few men 
and I will just a message back and forth 
um 
it's funny first my uh profile I was 
telling Eileen I'm like Eileen this is 
sad 
no one's messaging me and then she said 
let me let me look at this she's like 
you met your profile is hidden 
because I did it I'm just not the most 
text Daddy person 
I love it 
okay we're just talking and then I was 
like Eileen I'm really not feeling it 
it's just that feeling inside of you 
that you're just like oh yeah I really 
really want to know more about this 
person 
and um I was like and she's like well 
let's just look you know to see if you 
because you know part of the process is 
you also you know this amount of time 
that you spend and if she helped me to 
like look at some of the profiles and I 
saw this with the first picture his 
profile was him 
um smiling and I was like he has the 
most adorable smile like and I clicked 
on it right away and I started looking 
at his pictures a picture of him 
traveling picture of him with his dog I 
was like wow I just I'm like and I 
imagine imagine like first thing 
and I hear your plot and this is history 
oh my gosh what was the what was your 
first date like and how and tell us 
about that 
yeah see like uh so we talked on the 
phone I said hey I want to have a 
conversation on the phone and just 
because I wanted to see if you can keep 
a conversation going and if you did talk 
you can ask people kind of fool I'd like 
I said I like Italian food and then he 
picked this Italian restaurant 
and set a time we went and um 
it just the conversation was just so 
natural it kept talking the whole it was 
no awkward silence and he asked me all 
this he would just truly wanted to know 
me and um some of the questions he would 
ask me like whoa wait I have to think 
about this like what's your favorite 
sport 
what's your favorite this what's your 
favorite bat what do you like and it 
didn't feel like an interrogation if you 
feel like an interview it was just very 
natural yeah 
like he wants to just to know me like he 
genuinely 
is curious about me and it was just a 
breath of fresh air 
and is he American or where did he come 
from oh well he was born in England 
yeah I know I'm British man are amazing 
but he moved here when he was seven 
years old so he's been in America for a 
really long time he's 36 now 
yeah so he's been here 
um yeah it's just I was like wow he's a 
gentle man and I was it was I was 
waiting until so we were there for a 
while like it was the same 90 minutes 
but I think I learned I broke the rule 
I've been over 90 minutes you were on 
your first date for over 90 minutes 
you're talking and talking and then we 
left and I was like please do not ask me 
to go home with you I was just like 
praying I just so sad that's such a 
simple thing we have to just pray for 
that and he didn't just say goodbye and 
I'll talk to you later and you got in 
his car and drove off I was like oh 
thank God 
it wasn't this narcissistic hookup 
artist like hey baby you want to come 
hang out no he was like okay 
talk to you later and you were like this 
is kind of amazing then what happened 
when did you hear from me 
that night he messaged me he thanked me 
you know where to date and he said he 
had a good time and he'd love to 
um you know hang out again and we did 
and on the second day even another 
restaurant we had sushi 
and then our third day was New Year's 
Eve so I'm this is a brand new guy that 
I just met and I'm meeting like 15 of 
his friends oh my God no pressure no 
pressure at all no it's you know 
whatever and like he asked me like do 
you want to hang out with me and me you 
want to be my New Year's Day I'm like 
sure yeah why not 
so his friends they were so precious 
they're so amazing it was like people 
around him 
it's just I feel like he tracks that 
kind of people wow I have not met a 
friend of his that is just rude mean or 
just a bad person I've got bad feeling 
about wow they were amazing they're so 
welcoming and I really got along with 
them made friends with the girls I'm 
like still friends with them and just us 
hanging out even by ourselves 
they're so sweet and yeah that was our 
third day we did all his fans on New 
Year's right kept on hanging out after 
that and it was amazing and it was it's 
funny um I don't know if I'm jumping 
ahead but it was a month in 
I was like okay I've been running a few 
dates 
I was messaging Eileen because we were 
coming towards the end of our uh you 
know our session together our time and I 
was like you know I really like him I 
haven't been on a date with any other 
person I haven't really talked to 
anybody else and 
I wanted to see if he's on the same page 
if he wants to be if make it official 
she's like ask him I'm like you want me 
to ask him what she said yeah just ask 
him and just ask him and he says he's 
not ready give him some time be like 
okay well we'll have this conversation 
in a week or two just give him some room 
and then if he's not ready just move on 
because you just that's not what you're 
looking for you don't want to just go on 
dates and have fun that's you want to 
settle down get mad and I'll say okay I 
asked him and he's like I was like are 
you dating other people and he he gone 
it was like a little offended he's like 
what dating other people what do you 
mean no I'm not dating other people I'm 
with you okay oh 
so and then he just brought up he said 
do you want to make it official he's 
like hell yeah okay there you go 
I feel like I have a boyfriend 
right and it I because from my previous 
experience I was like so you are my uh 
party's like boyfriend and he was like 
I'm your boyfriend I was like ah okay 
there you go we have a title right we 
just for those of you who haven't heard 
the podcast episode from a couple of 
weeks ago it's does being exclusive mean 
your boyfriend or girlfriend in my 
definition it should but you need to 
clarify that and start off as a good 
student of ours like one equals the 
other it's not a stepping stone to 
giving somebody a title if you are not 
seeing anybody else you're pulling your 
profiles down yes please ask so I am 
your fill in the blank please oh my 
friend girlfriend girlfriend girlfriend 
whatever you are get the title clear it 
up that day 
oh yeah I was like I need to know I'm 
too old for this I need to know that I 
just 
I'm your girlfriend or not and just 
it's been amazing ever since maybe it 
had some challenges and you know who 
doesn't what couple doesn't but we just 
overcame that and 
because we generally just want to be 
together we work at it we take the time 
to work through our problems and he's 
just he's just a gentle soul 
he's so gentle so sweet 
just I I can 
he's an elevator person he's the 
elevator first he's my cheerleader 
because sometimes I get I know sometimes 
I get tired of studying 
like I'm I don't want to study anymore 
I'm just so tired he's like one more 
hour just just give me one more hour he 
can do it just one more hour and then 
come out and we'll just watch it Netflix 
show or whatever we can do one more hour 
and look up I had a migraine this 
morning and he said just lay in bed and 
relax even I got new Starbucks and she's 
like cheer me up and he's like just you 
know just get this positive energy in 
yourself just think about the people who 
love you think about your parents think 
about me think about 
um you know our dog and because he was 
like the dog was laying in bed with me 
and he's like because he knows how much 
I love the dog and he's like just think 
about it and just keep just you know 
just try to pump yourself up you can do 
this and you're gonna feel better I'm 
gonna go get your sorrow do you want me 
to like yeah I'm gonna do 
thank you 
because he was having a visit because he 
works from home and 
but he really 
like 
the smallest things 
matters the smallest stuff because 
for him to care about the fact that I'm 
not feeling well I need coffee it that 
really does help me let me go pick up 
coffee for you or let me do something 
for you that's going to make you happy 
it just it really does a little stuff 
that we look over we tend to uh not pay 
attention to I'd be like oh whatever 
because we just want to be in a 
relationship so bad 
it's not good we should pay attention to 
those red files in the very early on 
because he's 
I feel like I found someone who loves me 
the same way my dad loves my mom 
your makeup is so pretty don't cry 
this is it's like the perfect book end 
and you are when did you get engaged why 
so he took me on a vacation 
um because our first vacation we just 
loves to travel 
we went to Charleston South Carolina 
at our one year anniversary was coming 
up so he's like oh why don't we just go 
there and you know and I'm like okay so 
there was this this beautiful puff I 
wish I remember it Snee I can never 
remember it 
um he said we're going to do a tour 
we're gonna go on a tour but we're gonna 
go to a to a fancy restaurant afterwards 
just dress up you know it's a really 
fancy restaurant okay 
and I'm walking up I'm looking for a 
group I'm looking I was like I said dad 
he's like no I'm like he said I'm right 
there he's like no he said okay come on 
let's go this way where are we going and 
then 
he's always like I have something in my 
shoes and he just got something on my 
shoes that's why he's 
I don't want me and he has 
beautiful speech and then he I was just 
like I'm gonna I don't for some reason 
when he say I'm looking around like is 
this happening to me right now you were 
confused 
I'm getting engaged like what this man 
who's amazing he just like 
wow he wants to marry me what were you 
completely surprised I was completely 
surprised I had a feeling that if 
you are moving to that towards that 
direction but I didn't know it was going 
to happen in that vacation it happened 
and after you know he gave me doing and 
we hug and we kissed and he was like oh 
look over there I'll look and I see 
someone's taking picture of us so he set 
up a like a photographer just sit there 
and like take pictures of us and then we 
did a photo shoot with him afterwards 
and it was I'm like wow you are just 
sort of a cage right afterwards and we 
they had like a dinner this beautiful 
restaurant and 
it was just like a dream I just I'm like 
wow like everything all this heartache 
everything I went through because it 
went away it was worth it if 
I feel like everything that I went 
through with just you know dating 
getting my heart broken and all that 
yeah yeah I feel like you're just 
Universe rewarded me 
the universe rewarded you it was your 
time right and I'm sorry 
and what I love 
in your story is that you you know so 
many people wait and wait and wait and 
they keep doing the same thing over and 
over again thinking I'm gonna watch a 
video and I'm gonna learn everything and 
you were smart enough to know I need to 
really change things up and I need 
somebody to teach me and hold me 
accountable and that you allowed us to 
do that for you so that's for sure you 
were a gift my whole team loves you 
everybody that loves you I text you and 
Nisa they're like shut up 
everybody super super excited that 
you're engaged and when's the wedding 
October 28th October 28th of this year 
you guys 
this beautiful soul is between you if 
you're thinking you've had your heart 
broken again and again and again and 
you know you keep attracting the wrong 
guy think about are you accepting the 
wrong people are you picking the wrong 
people and most of the people we work 
with their Pickers are off and so having 
someone to help you identify where your 
picker is off and then gently guiding 
you in the direction of good people it's 
such an honor to to do this work and to 
see that pot of gold at the end of the 
rainbow for you that you're engaged and 
truth be like iMessage set off just out 
of nowhere like she was in my phone last 
week I'm like hey how are you you're 
like oh my God I was gonna text you 
wedding photos but I'm engaged I'm like 
wait what and then 
this week and I'm like you have to tell 
your love story on the podcast because 
you're so darn cute 
oh thank you it's it's it's been an 
amazing journey and I'm really like you 
guys your whole team are always in my 
heart and 
it's it really helped me to 
realize what I was doing wrong and 
just opened my eyes to 
just this whole new world of dating and 
I know it happened quickly for me 
because it wasn't so long after I got on 
the website that I read my fiancee 
um but it might take some time and it 
really don't give up and that's what I 
tell my single family do not give up 
just 
make sure the guy that you're going 
after 
is the right guy for you and if you see 
a red flag because I would see sometimes 
I would even see those red flags but I 
would ignore them I would like you know 
but he has all these other good 
qualities but that red flag 
was just like 
it was a big deal he was a controlling 
person but I would ignore it because he 
was and some you know right he's just 
easy hands um he's just like I got like 
he's like like I wanted someone who's 
taller than me because of like I loved 
where I am going to taller he is he's 
just 
look sometimes I'll look at I'm like are 
you real like really good and it just it 
does happen it I believe there are 
guys like that or girls for because 
there are Gods who are you know looking 
for their 
um partner or of course if there are 
people like that for all of us there is 
love for all of us out there we just 
have to be patient and 
um just keep on looking because he or 
she they're out there they're waiting 
for us 
right and you gotta change things up and 
then Shake It Up you gotta change things 
up like the photos the text in your 
profile the way you're messaging how 
you're picking there's a whole dating 
well I don't know how the hell a car 
works but I know that there's a lot of 
stuff that happens from the time I press 
on to make that car reverse out of my 
driveway dating is very much the same 
way there's a lot of stuff that has 
synchronicity that has to all happen in 
the right time and yeah you're such a 
good student and you did it all and I'm 
so happy for you and I'm grateful that 
you came on here to share your optimism 
and I love that you know that love 
exists for everybody message guys first 
okay ladies right message guys first if 
you see something you'll like go get it 
go after it do you have any more pieces 
of wisdom for someone who's single and 
wishing for love 
be patient be patient love yourself 
and be patient love is out there because 
once you have that attitude you're 
Attract it you will attract a guy who 
is in your same level who's on your 
sample level you attract that kind of 
person for guys too because 
you know I feel like be positive like 
you cannot lose hope be positive 
just 
go on those dates 
listen to Bella 
come to Chicago 
you'll have a lot of fun 
and just 
it works it's just you and it is okay 
for you to 
be depressed the issue you know to just 
go just go get it be like hey you want 
to be my boyfriend you want to go out on 
a date with me you want to you know do 
this and it's it's okay and 
and then give him time to be the 
gentleman and you know just spoil you 
and you know but but you have the power 
and what you're saying is Empower 
yourself Empower yourself with patience 
Empower yourself with compassion for 
yourself for the process and to do 
whatever it is you want to do message 
the guy use your voice ask him to be 
exclusive right what is this so take the 
bowl by the horns because with the right 
person you won't have to wonder 
no you really don't because he's not 
going to keep you guessing he never kept 
me guessing he was very honest just 
straight up very direct and really uh 
when you are talking him just pay 
attention don't sit there and be all 
like 
yeah you just you're just looking I'm 
just so you know happy to be here every 
little thing that he says it just shows 
you the kind of person he is because for 
me it was important for the guy to be 
family oriented 
uh on our first conversation he said 
okay well I have to you know say goodbye 
to you because I'm going to see my 
family I'm gonna go see my parents 
because I haven't seen him in a while I 
was like wow look at that he's closing 
his family I love it like I love the guy 
who's family oriented so 
stuff like that don't be like I wanna go 
see your family but if you're looking 
for a guy who's going to be family 
oriented because family are very 
important 
because I want to see the guy that who 
what kind of 
household he was raised 
so even he's just that way and he is 
very close to them 
it's just 
makes it that much better you just pay 
attention and if you see a red flag and 
it's big just be like yeah bye it's fine 
peace out thank you next he's single 
he's single then it's better be single 
than be miserable amen oh you're such a 
Dream well I hope you come back to 
Chicago for a comeback with James and 
we'll do another photo shoot for you 
around the same thing I was in Chicago 
for my um uh photo shoot he was just 
visiting there and I'm like oh wait was 
it what's that thing that was totally 
fade all of its fate all of his faith 
thank God for Steve Harvey 
thank God for Steve Harvey 
or 
Steve yeah 
yeah I'd be like hey there's another 
wedding we did Steve 
[Laughter] 
oh big hugs to you thank you so much and 
for all of you listening I hope that 
you're inspired by sadaf's story and you 
know that love exists for you as well 
and take the steering wheel of your own 
dating life change things up send that 
message change those photos invest in 
yourself do things differently whatever 
that means to you so until next week 
keep the love that she's given you and 
I'm giving you in your heart be inspired 
that the lid to your pot is out there 
and all you have to do is keep dating 
until you find him or her and amen amen 
and with that smart daters Sada thank 
you so much we love you I love you thank 
you so much for having me on oh my gosh 
and smart taters we'll see you next week 
