[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I am so excited to have a dear 
friend and an incredible resource for 
all of you so make sure you've got your 
notebooks and your pens or your iPhones 
out to take notes today 
I am delighted to have Wendy Sterling 
here with us she is a divorced women's 
empowerment and 
healer okay that was great Wendy correct 
the title for me you are a divorced 
woman's 
goddess I'll take 
that um I am a divorced women's 
empowerment coach and healer oh my gosh 
all right just call me a goddess I mean 
I'm in so she the goddess Wendy but no 
with all seriousness um she is not only 
when I met her she was a divorce coach 
and a Healer and now she's an 
empowerment coach and healer and I can 
tell you she's doing amazing work and 
Wendy and I have been friends for a 
couple of years through our friend Susan 
Guthrie I think Susan introduced us love 
Susan who's the host of the divorce and 
Beyond podcast and um Wendy has just 
written a book which I got and it's 
called divorce sucks now what and I was 
like holy moly I need to have Wendy on 
this podcast right away to share her 
story with you even though we've known 
each other I didn't know all of the 
depths and how incredibly relevant her 
story is and Wendy even did one of are 
online dating love labs and spoiler 
alert will come back to that later so 
Wendy thank you for being with us oh my 
goodness thank you for having me and 
what an introduction I adore you and I'm 
grateful to be here to share some wisdom 
with your listeners today well tell us 
your 
story well where we're jumping right in 
I'm in you know me let's go I know let's 
go so I will never forget the night that 
uh my ex-husband and I were driving home 
from a couple's night out and that night 
was about six and a half years ago and 
his phone didn't ring once it rang five 
times and it was a female colleague of 
his who 
was calling him very late at night and 
while I knew that they were friends that 
moment in the car I knew that there was 
way more going on than just a friendship 
and while none of us get married 
thinking that plan B is ever something 
we're going to Embark upon 
that night really informed me that that 
was the new road that I was heading down 
and more importantly what it taught me 
was that I had lost myself I fell asleep 
at the wheel of my marriage and that 
night man did I get woken up um I really 
it was like the the 15 years of our 
marriage just flashed in front of my 
face going how did I miss this and you 
know while he denied until he couldn't 
you know anymore until I found the 
evidence uh what was the evidence tell 
us about this moment because we were 
just backstage chatting about something 
about this 
moment we were so the evidence was found 
um on an iPad that was left on the 
nightstand and the evidence came in the 
form of uh you know emails that just 
conveniently didn't get deleted and so 
it was very evident to me that the man 
that I thought I was married to was not 
the person that I called my best friend 
and my husband and so I really took uh 
you know about a year to really figure 
out what it was that I wanted you know 
we had we have two boys at the time they 
were seven and 10 and you know if we 
didn't have kids it would have been an 
easy get out I'm done we're divorcing 
but when you have kids there's a little 
bit more of a thought process that is 
involved in in that a little just just a 
smidge and so what I decided to do was 
to really use that time to uh find 
myself I really you know it's funny I 
knew who I was in corporate I had built 
a 20 plus year corporate career in you 
know the digital ad space and was you 
know one of the leaders out here on the 
West Coast Building multi-million dollar 
regions and I was confident and I knew 
who I was at work but yet for some 
reason when I got home all of that just 
completely disappeared and I was in 
therapy we were actually in couples's 
therapy clearly neither of us were 
really being honest with one another or 
even with ourselves around where it was 
that we were and I knew that I needed 
something more I felt very stuck I was 
reading you know I was reading all these 
B books listening to all these podcasts 
and while I was learning a lot of 
information I had no idea how to then 
okay well what do I do how does this 
apply to my life right right right 
knowledge is one thing right and 
execution is wholly 
another yes execution with 
accountability which I was really bad at 
so I would make up excuses just like 
most of us do and so I knew that I 
needed something more and of course the 
universe hands us what we need when we 
ask for it 
and that came to me in the form of a 
Facebook post from a friend who became a 
life coach and I thought what the heck 
is a coach and so we set up a call and 
three hours later not only had I hired a 
friend to uh to help coach me through 
this next phase of my life but I also 
decided to sign up to become a coach 
because I go bigger I go home I thought 
well if I become a coach and hire a 
coach I'll be through this real fast 
right and what I ended up experiencing 
was that in the course of just a 3-day 
weekend I had moved through more 
emotions around my divorce than I had 
the entire eight months before in 
therapy and so I knew that there was 
something really special to this and I 
had the you know the foresight to 
journal my experience and how it was 
that I was applying what I was learning 
in being a coach to how I was applying 
that to the emotional roller poster that 
I was on because of my divorce and so 
where that got me was to a place where I 
was able to stand in my power and to uh 
confront my ex-husband about a year 
later in our couple's therapist office 
to say okay what do you want where are 
we at like what where's your head at and 
him saying I don't really know and me 
looking him dead in the eye and saying 
well I do and I'm done and I want a 
divorce and I walked out of the office 
it was somewhat of an out-of- body 
experience because I almost had no idea 
what had just 
happened and it was when I got to my car 
and looked in the mirror and went oh my 
God what did I just do wow and so it was 
one of those like yes and then oh can I 
swear of course okay and then it was oh 
 oh oh my God my 
kids what oh my God what did I just do 
what did I just do what did I just do 
and it was a mix of fear excitement 
adrenaline and 
just certainty you know it was just like 
this cocktail that I had never 
experienced before and to top things off 
and as you know in my book because I 
share this as well that was in the 
morning and a few hours later I received 
a call from my dad telling me that my 
mom was rushed to the hospital and they 
eventually told us that they had 
discovered ovarian cancer and so 
literally within a 5H hour stretch of 
one day I essentially was losing the two 
people who truly were like the 
foundations for yes my 
rocks and so my journey 
really then began in a whole other way 
that I never expected um and it was one 
that enabled me to not only stand in the 
power of my voice but to 
also create this amazing business of 
mine that I have created for myself as 
an entrepreneur and it has also it also 
enabled me to really be present for my 
mom through a a very rough four and a 
half years of her cancer battle and you 
know ultimately unfortunately she passed 
away last 
January sorry thank you you you know I 
talk a lot about in the book how she and 
I were really walking this parallel 
journey together around how you know we 
were both very much in our pity parties 
and then at one point we both kind of 
had this you know this come to Jesus 
moment 
of we we got to shift our mindset 
because our mindset is everything in 
this and if we shift our mindset then we 
can shift the trajectory of both of our 
pasts and so my mom and I really I she 
taught me how to live and I taught her 
how to fight and so together we were 
walking in this journey um and I refer 
to it as almost like a metamorphosis for 
both of us where on the other side I 
emerged at as a butterfly to soar as did 
my mom but her soaring is taking place 
angelically and she's really in a place 
where I feel her every single day and I 
know that she's here supporting me on my 
journey and I you know I I wouldn't be 
standing here 
in you know the relationship that I'm in 
the business that I've created you know 
the relationship that I also have with 
my boys as their mom I have a great 
co-parenting relationship with my 
ex-husband who's remarried and you know 
it's it's really what has happened for 
me is possible for 
everybody 100% And I want to hit a few 
key points in your book because they so 
resonated with me talk 
about talk about knowing our worth let's 
go there and for people that are 
listening to this that may be in the 
dating World slogging it out like the 
you know the the the man in the boxing 
ring or somebody who's walking through 
divorce or somebody who's even lost 
their partner prematurely how do we how 
do we know our 
worth yeah you know if anybody listening 
is anyone you know can relate to this 
the same way that I you know how I 
related to it was my worth was seen 
through other people so from when I was 
a very young little girl you know I'm 
the granddaughter of Holocaust Survivors 
and so when my family came to this 
country it was all about fitting into 
America don't stand out be like 
everybody else and I was anything but 
that as a little girl I was very 
outspoken I was very tomboyish I was 
into everything I had an opinion about 
everything until that part of me got 
silenced because I was too much I was 
you know too loud I was too outspoken I 
was too this too that and so what I 
ended up developing was this behavior of 
really seeking from outside of me 
confirmation that oh I'm doing this 
right okay I'm I'm awesome now like I'm 
good right people like me and so it 
became this Behavior that I just grew up 
with brought into my adulthood and 
ultimately brought into my marriage so I 
lived into this identity of myself that 
everybody else saw so my worth was 
rested in other people's opinions of me 
um you know there were so many moments 
throughout that year that I was 
separated where it just hit me like a 
ton of bricks where you know it was like 
even just filling out a dating profile 
it was like I don't even I don't even 
know what what is good about me like 
who's going to want me I'm I'm in my 40s 
I'm divorced I have two kids you know 
and I'm an entrepreneur you know who's 
going to want me I'm old right has been 
and that was very much my mindset for 
quite some time and so the process by 
which I was able to gain back my sense 
of selfworth and a way that I really 
teach my clients is you know it starts 
with you first of all finding yourself 
again right not looking outside but you 
looking inside and seeing what it is 
that is important to you in this life 
and 
distinguishing what you know your truths 
are from you know our ego those inner 
critics those judgmental negative voices 
that are inside of our heads and to also 
love everything about us right there 
were parts of me in my marriage that I'm 
not proud of and it's something that 
I've worked really hard to own and to 
also vow like I'm never going to be that 
perversion of me again right like that's 
not to say that there are moments where 
you know she creeps out every now and 
then and I'm like oh wait like you know 
this is kind of coming out again I gotta 
you know evaluate exactly put her back 
yes put her back um and you know come at 
it a different way but really in order 
for you to know your worth you have to 
love everything about yourself including 
who you showed up as within your 
marriage marriage takes two people you 
get to Own 100% of your 50% and until 
you're able to do that that also means 
looking at the ugly stuff right looking 
at the parts of you that you're not 
necessarily as proud of and also to 
distinguish that you are not not your 
mistakes your 
mistakes your mistakes are how you learn 
it's how you grow it's how you do things 
differently and so a lot of what your 
worth plays 
into is really understanding what it is 
that is so incredible about you and not 
allowing other people to dim the way I 
describe it is don't let others dim your 
light you get to shine your your light 
regardless of how other people respond 
to it and it takes practice just like 
you know when you go to the gym and you 
pick up some new weights you're building 
that muscle and so building back your 
selfworth is a process very much like 
going to the gym and building muscle it 
just takes 
practice but most importantly it takes 
you learning how to love yourself and 
everything about 
you I love that and and you might be 
listening to this and saying well 
there's things I don't love about myself 
right and I think I'm sure Wendy you 
have those and I have those things about 
myself and this is where love can become 
compassion for yourself and sometimes we 
think oh I have to love the fact that I 
don't love my weight or I have to love 
this and gosh am I ready to date because 
I don't know that I love myself I'm like 
what you need to do is look at who you 
are and where you've been and have 
compassion for for the person who tried 
the compassion for the person who did 
bring her stuff or his stuff to the 
divorce yes we all contributed in so 
many ways right and and having 
compassion for yourself and saying I did 
the best I could with the information I 
had and the resources I had did I do the 
best I could and be compassionate to 
yourself like you would your best friend 
and until until you do that that's where 
we live and we can get so stuck 
sometimes so you don't have to love all 
the things that you've done especially 
if you've made mistakes but be able to 
say you know what I know I did that I 
would do things differently but that's 
part of my journey and move on 100% 100% 
and that's where holding yourself 
accountable right taking responsibility 
and holding yourself accountable is so 
incredibly important you know the 
compassion piece I'm so glad you brought 
that up I I I you know kind of tie it 
together with Grace right having Grace 
and compassion for yourself we're human 
beings we are not perfect we are making 
mistakes and sure did it suck that it 
took my divorce for me to learn all this 
stuff sure and at the same time it 
didn't suck because I'm the happiest 
I've ever been I know my ex-husband is I 
I believe when he says that he is happy 
you know my kids are happy my kids are 
thriving and so you know we're here to 
learn we're here to have 
experiences and the one thing that 
drives me crazy is when you know I talk 
with women and they allow their divorce 
or the failure of their marriage to 
Define who it is that they are or what 
is even possible for them down the road 
and it's not it's you know and and I'm 
not the only one standing here on the 
other side living my best life it 
there's so many of us that are there it 
just takes the courage to put one foot 
in front of the other and to have 
somebody guiding you who has got your 
back and is going to help you get there 
and to get there that much faster well 
and that comes back to something you 
said in the book which is so true it's 
knowing your worth and you are worth the 
invest investment in yourself where 
would you be if you didn't start were 
you if you didn't hire that life coach 
and I think in the book you're like yep 
I ran my credit card through it and I 
knew somehow I'd figure out how to pay 
for it but if we we think as women I 
have so much to say about this I'm 
like we we give and we nurture and we 
write checks for our kids to become 
Tennis Pros and learn how to code and la 
la la and blah blah blah and they go to 
these private schools and but what we 
don't think is what am I worth what is 
my growth worth and I am worth investing 
in and that's part of saying I am a 
human being who wants to get better and 
I don't want to be in the same place one 
year from now because what is the cost 
of that it's unquantifiable right think 
about that what's the cost of being in 
the same place a year from now do you 
want to be there I don't think you do my 
listener so think about if this 
resonates where do you need where do you 
want to level up in your life and know 
you are worth it four words P write them 
with red lipstick on your mirror I am 
worth it right and invest in yourself 
and this is part of kn KN your worth 
Wendy wouldn't have leveled up and 
gotten out and been able to use her 
voice in the therapist office that day 
looking at her husband and going oh my 
God I want a divorce four words where 
did you get that because you started to 
realize what you were worth and you 
weren't you didn't deserve someone who 
didn't know how freaking awesome you 
were you're the bees knes right you are 
the cats meow and if he didn't know that 
peace out brother yeah no 100% you know 
it's so funny because I walked into that 
office going if he says he wants to work 
on it I'm in I was ready to just throw 
it all away and it really was in that 
moment where he said I still need time 
and I thought to 
myself he's had a lot of time to see 
what a prize 
he has had and while I may not have 
shown up as my best 
self I knew how amazing I was and I was 
tired of being 
underappreciated and to be totally 
honest with 
you I I didn't feel like we were friends 
anymore like I would have I I was 
committed at that time because I knew I 
knew that I deserved better I deserved 
somebody who wanted to choose me and in 
that moment that looked like me me 
choosing me I chose myself in that 
office I had walked in praying he would 
choose but what is most important at the 
end of the day is you choosing yourself 
and I say that so many times to a lot of 
women especially women who are on the 
fence right the should I stay or should 
I go I don't know if I should get a 
divorce I don't know if I should this 
and all I ever say to them is well what 
if you just chose yourself and then 
figured out what does that version of 
you want is it the marriage you have is 
it the man that you are married to if 
he's doing work then is it the version 
that you're seeing him become but you 
have to choose yourself first no matter 
what because if you don't then how are 
you going to know what it feels like 
when somebody appreciates you or values 
you or sees your worth or is your 
biggest 
cheerleader exactly and I'm going to 
give you four powerful words around that 
I asked my clients this what do you 
want yep right not what's good for blah 
blah blah blah blah blah blah what do 
you want Wendy what do you want Bella 
what do you want dear listener right you 
know how many people can't answer that 
all of them which is why I'm saying when 
I ask people that question what do you 
want yeah they don't know they can tell 
me what they don't want I'm like that's 
I'm not looking to form the reciprocal 
of what you don't want to find what you 
want because that's not the answer what 
do you want and that means choosing 
yourself what do I want and if that 
makes it easier for you to go God what 
do I want and what you'll start to 
Rattle off what you don't want well I 
don't want this I don't want that no no 
what do you want and that's the start of 
you choosing what's good for you yep 
100% And we put ourselves 
L yes we will put a credit card down for 
our children if it's life or death or as 
you said you know the best school I mean 
I'm I'm looking at colleges we were just 
talking to I haven't even looked at 
Price tags yet but I'm like whatever he 
wants I and then when it comes to me I'm 
like oh how much money is in the big 
account can I really afford this the 
same level we don't afford ourselves the 
same level of Grace that we do for 
everybody else in our lives and what I 
have learned is that if I don't put 
myself first my kids suffer if I keep 
putting them first I suffer and I can't 
be here for my children right it's the 
oxygen mask on the airplane you know 
metaphor that everybody talks about but 
it's the god- honest truth if you don't 
put that oxygen ask on first how are you 
going to save your kids that's right 
100% 100% And and on this note we talk 
about accountability yes and you talk 
about looking at your own side of the 
street versus looking across the street 
and for 
you I can imagine it's my husband 
cheated on me and I discovered he was 
having an affair and and he blew my life 
up but you talk really eloquently about 
yes we can live in that mentality of 
looking at his shitty side of the street 
and what he did but talk about what it 
means to what it meant to you to look at 
your side of the street and how we 
should all think about our side of the 
street yeah you know this comes back to 
what I was saying before which is that 
it takes two people to get married right 
it takes two people to make a marriage 
work and you have to Own 100% of your 
50% I spent way too much time pointing 
the finger at him going you cheated you 
broke our vows you ruined our family you 
destroyed our lives you this you that 
right and sure he made those 
choices he gets to live with that not me 
I not me I am not the one that has to 
look in the mirror every day and know 
that that is a choice that I made but 
what I do have to look in the mirror and 
own and take responsibility for is how I 
showed up right through the marriage 
right correct how I showed up through 
the marriage I did not prioritize my 
marriage I prioritized my children and I 
prioritized our family but I did not 
prioritize our 
relationship I was a horrible 
Communicator I thought he was a mind 
reader and he knew me for 22 years why 
couldn't he read my mind after 22 years 
well because that's just not something 
humans 
do but I was I was convinced yeah yeah 
but I was convinced I'm like he should 
know me he should know this he should 
this he should that right instead of 
actually opening my mouth and saying 
this is what I need this is how I feel I 
would just ruminate and get mad that he 
didn't read my mind and then I would 
blow up at him I would pick fights 
because I didn't feel like I got 
attention well no wonder I didn't get 
attention because I pick fights with him 
all the time right and so all this stuff 
I had to look at myself and go oh my God 
I didn't talk I blamed him for 
everything that must feel pretty shitty 
and I think I pushed not I think I know 
I pushed him away I pushed my husband 
away wow and I pushed myself away at the 
same time but I pushed him away and am I 
sad and sorry absolutely and I have 
gotten to the point in my healing where 
a couple of years ago I apologized to 
him I 
apologized because I was a pretty not 
nice person to him and while I don't 
condone how he handled it I mean there 
were a lot of choices he could have made 
he he chose what he chose but until I 
was able to really go oh my God I can't 
do this again I have to I need to not do 
this again so what am I willing to learn 
well I need to learn how to communicate 
I need language I didn't know I had like 
four adjectives to describe my feelings 
and they were typically like happy angry 
sad and frustrated right I didn't have 
this plethora of words at my disposal to 
use to communicate so one of the really 
big foundations of my program is 
teaching my clients how to communicate 
where you're not pointing the 
finger if you're constantly 
communicating using you you this you 
that you made me no you allowed I am 
allowing right I allowed him blah blah 
blah blah blah right I'm allowing him to 
take up space in my head rentree I'm 
allowing him to take over my emotions so 
there's hence the empowerment piece of 
what I do is really taking 
accountability is standing in your power 
of 
choice and learning how to do things 
differently the next time 
and so again until you can own how you 
contributed to the downfall of your 
marriage you number one are not ready to 
be in another relationship and number 
two you're G to stay 
stuck it's called denial for a 
reason and yes go ahead oh sorry sorry I 
was like oh I'm so you're like 
wow keep going okay no I mean it's 
called denial for a reason and you you 
choose to stay in denial because it's 
easier than having to 
face the ugly parts of who you are and 
what I know to be true is that you know 
everybody's like oh what's the fast way 
what's the fast way well the fast way is 
the exact opposite of what you're doing 
which is diving head first in it and 
through it because if you go there and 
then you pull back and then you go there 
and you pull back you're never really 
allowing yourself to go there you know I 
can sit here and own how I showed up in 
my marriage because I'm not attached to 
it anymore because it's not part of who 
I've become it is 100% who I used to be 
but it is not who I am anymore I didn't 
know better and so Here Comes The 
Compassion piece again right the 
mindfulness piece of having awareness 
that that is who I 
was not getting into judgment around it 
and choosing to see it differently wow 
it took this for me to learn that I'm so 
glad I learned it now I'm so glad that 
you know my partner Jeff like he is I 
always say to him all the time I'm like 
thank God you know this version of me 
because she's really amazing right and I 
can stand here and say that because I 
know who I don't ever want to be again 
and while I know she's still there she 
she creeps out every now and then 
typically around my ex-husband but I 
know how to put her back I know how to 
shift so it's not like I'm cured cured 
right I say no cure we're never perfect 
we're never healed we're never like that 
person no what I know is how to shift 
how to shift out of it quickly and to go 
back right to own things to communicate 
like I 
feel I am upset about or hey I was 
feeling this when you did that or 
holding space for being told you know 
like jefff and I got into this 
conversation the other day and this you 
know again having to do with owning your 
side of the street like he was like hey 
remember you know you asked me to put a 
pin in this and then you like left the 
room after you finished what you were 
doing and you forgot to come back to our 
conversation yeah that didn't feel 
really good and I looked at him and I 
was like oh my God you're so right I 
totally did that I'm so so sorry okay 
you have my attention like old me would 
have been like I'm busy I have all this 
stuff on my head I have to do everything 
right and instead of just being like hey 
I get to listen to how my action made 
you feel you get to have your experience 
I'm having mine 
and so that part of owning your side 
right is really owning what your 
experience was and deciding did that 
feel good and if it didn't how do you 
want to approach that next time I love 
that and one thing I want to bring up in 
this conversation is we talk a lot and I 
know we talked about having a voice 
right and this comes up day after day 
hour after hour with my clients and so 
many of you struggle with your voice 
right and I'm not saying your real voice 
but what I'm saying is we have family of 
origin stuff where we were silenced 
where we were ridiculed where we were 
told to be small stop being annoying 
like your opinion doesn't matter throw 
some dirt in it go to your room calm 
down whatever it is and we all had these 
messages right and therefore we never 
learn how to have the bad feelings and 
we never know how to talk about them 
because we were put in our rooms and you 
know lick our own wounds and what did we 
do we shove things down so to your point 
looking at your side of the street comes 
from family of origin stuff I didn't 
have a voice why I didn't know how to 
use it I was never taught how to use it 
I was taught to be the good girl right 
to not say the thing to not ask the 
questions and for those of you that are 
listening to this and this resonates 
because I'm sure it resonates with 100% 
of you because we all have this to some 
extent working on it's okay to use your 
voice always and if you use it like 
Wendy was saying you want to use your 
voice mindfully and I want to tell you 
this I want you to think about using 
your PL your voice and you come from a 
place of Love imagine a giant pink 
sparkly heart in your abdomen okay and 
when you are delivering something maybe 
that was an ouch right come from a place 
of Love instead of coming from a place 
of reaction immediately we all want to 
react especially if we come from houses 
where we weren't allowed to have a voice 
or houses where there was dysfunctional 
conflict and we had it was fight or flee 
or freeze right so in that moment stop 
yourself this is the person that loves 
you like Wendy's saying with Jeff I can 
sense her coming out and you take her 
and you put her back in the bottle and 
you're like you're right I'm really 
sorry you told me to put a pin in that 
and I made you feel unimportant right 
come from that place of Love or if 
somebody wrongs you say to them instead 
of saying well when you did this I felt 
like this another way where we you know 
talk about at Smart dating Academy is 
hey you know when you said said this the 
story I told myself was you were 
thinking this about me am I making this 
up I love that that has I mean that has 
been such a GameChanger in my own 
marriage and we'll be 26 years this may 
the story I'm telling myself right now 
is right and we've just been doing this 
for the last five years game changing 
and then it's even less it's more it 
gives that person the chance to explain 
their intentions because it's kind of 
the definition of emotional intelligence 
I feel a paper cut but I might not be 
reading your intentions the right way 
and that as soon as I know like oh I 
didn't mean that what I meant was blah 
blah blah and you're like oh my God 
suddenly I'm not hurt anymore and you 
don't even have to go there it's like 
the story I'm telling myself is Right am 
I telling myself the right story on your 
side of the 
street yes love that preach so true so 
true on your side of the street and now 
let's talk about your journey into the 
dating world because most people here 
also want to know who's Jeff and how did 
you get to 
Jeff that's a great question um you know 
I I was telling I was telling B I'm like 
I kind of want to share like my dating 
perspective because I think I come at it 
a little bit differently um you know 
when I'm coaching my clients and helping 
them to kind of see when they're ready 
to to dive you know into the dating 
world and the way that I used dating was 
as I was getting to know myself as I was 
looking in the mirror and seeing who 
exactly was staring back at me as I 
started actually knowing the voice that 
was coming out of my mouth and feeling 
confident in what she was saying I 
decided to use dating as the way in 
which I was gaining confidence in being 
this new version of me and what I want 
to say to expand on that is that I 
wasn't going out on dates to get 
affirmation or external validation for 
who I was it was me showing up not 
caring what the other person thought of 
who was showing up at these you know 
dinners um or these drinks or these 
coffees and so or you know talking on 
the phone and so it was really important 
for me to because all my friends were 
married I didn't have single friends 
that was like a whole Community I had to 
create for myself and I knew my 
ex-husband was dating and in fact by the 
time I started dating he had already met 
somebody and so I wanted to really get 
myself out there because I just wanted a 
man to take me out to dinner as silly 
and simple as that sounds that's really 
what I wanted and it was and I remember 
like it was just so nice to have 
somebody want to talk to me to want to 
get to know me but one of the things 
that I quickly learned and something 
that I love that you teach your clients 
is that 
they get to earn the right to your story 
so the one part that I fine-tuned along 
the way was like how much to share and 
when but irregardless of that it still 
allowed me to really start being like 
God this feels really good it feels so 
good to be me to be all of me and to not 
care what these guys are saying or 
thinking and so I decided that 
I wanted to date for a couple of years I 
didn't want to be in a serious 
relationship I was with my ex-husband we 
met when we were 18 got married at 25 
divorced at 41 and I never dated I 
didn't so I kind of lived my 20s in my 
early 40s because I never had that 
experience and so it was a time for me 
to really just 
kind of sew my oats and and get myself 
out there and just to date and meet all 
these different types of people you know 
in my career I worked in ad sales and so 
like I love a room I love you know I 
love meeting new people I think it's 
really interesting to get to know people 
and their backgrounds and it really 
wasn't until probably about four years 
after we had separated that I really was 
ready to be in our relationship and so 
there was somebody before for Jeff who I 
dated for about a year and a half but he 
was kind of like he was what I needed 
he's what my boys needed at the time and 
My Philosophy is that like people come 
into your life for a reason and they 
come in when you need quote unquote need 
them right and so he was somebody who 
was just very fun and very lighthearted 
and he was you know he just gave my kids 
kind of the confidence that like Mom's 
going to find a really great guy who's 
going to love us and care about us but 
he wasn't longterm and after we broke up 
I decided to sign up for love lab 
because I was like okay I 
am I'm ready now like I am ready to find 
somebody and you know at this time my 
kids were older they knew I was dating 
their dad was already 
remarried also had a young baby and so I 
knew that they my kids were in a a good 
place and while that wasn't the deciding 
factor it was important to me that my 
kids be okay first and it was also a 
piece of anytime I went on a date I was 
very Crystal Clear like my kids will 
always come first like they are my blood 
and I love them and my kids come first 
and so anyway I signed up for love lab 
because I was like I am ready to go and 
within the weekend I had already just I 
learned so much about myself 
yay because you ask really interesting 
questions of us as we are putting 
together Our dating profile and what I 
always credit you with is you taught me 
how awesome I was like I knew I was 
really awesome but like you heightened 
that exponentially for me just by 
writing my profile and the power 
of really tapping into what makes you 
amazing and also standing in the power 
of what it is that you want I never 
thought about how writing in my profile 
like what I'm looking for or like you 
know it just it's like you make it so 
easy and you made it so easy for me and 
literally the same 
weekend that Bella and that I did love 
lab I met Jeff I mean what are the 
odds I 
mean I I yeah I mean you were ready you 
were ready I called him in and I 
manifested him because I got crystal 
clear on EXA exactly what I just said 
what I wanted I mean he checked every 
box and my list was really long you guys 
like down to the age I like guys that 
are you know he has a shaved head I I 
wrote that down like just the High I 
mean you name it it was like everything 
he fit everything that I written down 
and I had manifested because I actually 
I knew what I wanted I was in a place 
where I was open to 
receive and he and I because it was coid 
that was the other thing how do you Dae 
in coid I had learned how to date after 
you know in my 40s doing online now I 
was like oh God what are we doing Co and 
one of the benefits of what you taught 
is really getting to know each other via 
phone via video and so Jeff and I had 
three hour plus conversation the first 
night we talked we talked for over three 
hours and every night thereafter until 
our first date we talked for over three 
hours every single night and it was an 
intimacy that built it wasn't the 
butterflies it wasn't like the sexual 
attraction that I experienced when I was 
dating you know 
previously this was like it was almost 
like I felt like he and I were planting 
a sea together and we were we were 
fertilizing watering and putting sun on 
it together and seeing how it was going 
to grow and what it was going to look 
like together and yeah and you know 
we're still together two and a half 
years later last August we did a 
commitment ceremony in Maui with our 
kids he moved in we've combined families 
you know we're we may get married one 
day you know it's not off the table but 
um you know for us it's just important 
to be committed to each other and you 
know I found my my forever partner in 
love and life and and yeah I'm just it's 
it was it was it was you know as my mom 
would say it was Basher it was meant to 
be 
exactly exactly right in the Jewish 
faith if you help three people find 
their Basher you're guaranteed a spot in 
heaven well Bella you got your you got 
your ticket a while ago right I can take 
some friends with 
me actually I've done enough other 
reciprocal stuff I probably need all of 
those hall passes to so yeah right right 
young Bella certainly you know sewed her 
oats and had fun so I'm sure we're 
paying the price now so you're so funny 
well I'm so grateful that you came on 
here with so much authenticity is there 
anything that you you know that we 
didn't cover that you want to any gems 
you want to impart on our 
listeners you know the last piece that I 
will just throw in um that I touched on 
a little bit about the manifestation 
part right I I do do a lot of energy 
work on myself I do energy work with my 
clients and I talk about the energy 
healing that that I do and you don't 
have to be you don't have to be you know 
an energy healer or a Healer or you know 
somebody that's Uber spiritual but what 
I will say to you is this is that really 
faith and 
having confidence in a higher power 
believing in the universe really plays a 
role in the trajectory that your life 
takes and so I would just want to impart 
to 
everybody it's so important that you 
maintain a a certain amount of faith and 
trust and surrender in your path and to 
lean into the vision of the life that 
you want and to not back down under any 
circumstances whatsoever because you 
deserve to have the life that you want 
the partner that you want the abundance 
that you desire it is all possible for 
you and so I invite you to really call 
in guidance you know from the higher 
powers that be to guide you on your path 
um you know it it takes it does take 
work and it also takes a certain amount 
of trust that things are happening for 
you even when it doesn't feel like it 
is I love that and you guys I'm going to 
put a link in the show notes to Wendy's 
book which you can buy on Amazon called 
divorce sucks now what the five steps to 
find yourself and heal after going from 
I do to I'm divorced so thank you so 
much for being on with us and and you 
know may we all find our voice may we 
all know our worth and may we all keep 
our side of the street clean ladies and 
gentlemen thank you for having me Bella 
it's always so wonderful to chat with 
you so oh my God love you girl love you 
too 
