Good Morning America Janae Norman thank 
you for being here with us today this is 
an absolute pleasure let's do this so 
tell us about you tell us your story I 
knew even in high school I wanted to 
intern in New York City I wanted to end 
up at ABC News and I was going to do 
whatever I needed to to make that happen 
I was in a communication class one day 
when there was a posting for a 
production assistant job at the local 
ABC affiliate went and applied that day 
got that job so I'd be there working go 
to class and then come back an intern 
then just sort of the way the universe 
does there would be breaking news and no 
one else there so they would send me out 
to cover it and then I got the 
internship in New York with ABC and that 
was the dream and so like oh my God City 
and it was just so amazing 
