denial is a big part of trauma not 
getting real it's big stuff in your face 
or maybe it's just hidden and there's a 
lot of denial and sugar coating and not 
being real either way the nervous system 
doesn't like it the body doesn't like it 
and that's how I raise my kids now I'm 
always real it's important to be real so 
you separate it so they don't take on 
the stress of mom and dad a great tool 
for people to use right away what am I 
learning from this situation when 
something not good happens whether or 
not it's dating or a relationship what 
is this showing me what is this about me 
it's okay we all go through this and you 
know some people don't like necessarily 
the Law of Attraction some love it it's 
it's very similar to that if we're 
resonating with so much love and 
self-respect and self-love and self-care 
which are the tools the world starts 
showing us that so that you dear 
listener can create the life that you 
dream of and that you want 
