the no contact rule for me I think 
there's a lot of parallels between 
getting over a partner and getting sober 
from a substance the more people I've 
interviewed on the podcast experts in 
Neuroscience the two are very similar 
it's you're getting over an addiction a 
lot of people are addicted to Partners 
so you have to go through this detoxing 
process and I see so many people who 
stay in contact with their ex and 
they're just never able to fully get 
over them so the no contact rule is you 
don't have any contact with your ex you 
don't talk to them you don't text with 
them you definitely you don't see them 
because every time you do that you 
almost have to think of starting this 
detox process all over again your brain 
has to adjust to this person not being 
in your life there's a reason why so 
many people break up get back together 
break up get back together it's because 
they're trying to act like they're still 
in the relationship even though they're 
not 
