I've had two very amicable divorces 
that's what I say you know we'll go our 
separate ways I wasn't interested in 
dating for years I was just I was tired 
I was tired of working so much I had 
grieved the losses of a first divorce 
that was devastating the childless thing 
that was beyond what I could even 
comprehend but working through that and 
then Co happened that's when I first 
heard Bella and I was like oh my gosh 
this lady is amazing I loved your energy 
I loved what you were saying it was was 
just like clicking and I thought okay I 
need to dig into everything Bella Smart 
dating Academy I can find then after 
dating for a year and having a couple 
relationships during that time I'm like 
I just need to like do it I am ready I'm 
going to spend the money sign up and do 
all of this work it was the best thing 
and Bella and eileene it's because of 
you to learn so much more 
