what are the steps that you would take 
somebody through the foundation of that 
approach is lifestyle because it does 
not matter what else you do if your 
lifestyle is a mess you know we have 
talked our brains into believing that 
you know oh I'm not stressed I'm fine 
but our bodies are telling us a 
completely different story so when 
you're having symptoms that is your body 
asking for help supplements are used as 
support while you are getting your 
lifestyle in order they are not the 
Magic Bullet especially in postmenopause 
I work with someone's physician because 
I can't write prescriptions to get 
bioidentical hormones implemented if 
that's appropriate not everybody wants 
to go that route but there are a number 
of women that do and there's an 
increasing body of evidence that's 
coming out about how beneficial hormone 
replacement can be for bone health brain 
health and cardiovascular 
health 
