[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back happy Monday 
I'm so excited for so many reasons 
today's episode is your favorite it's a 
love story episode from someone who is 
one of my favorites 
um it's a former client current married 
person and current friend 
Holly Capps who is now Holly Capps Casey 
because y'all I want to tell you Holly 
just got married June 10th and she's 
going to tell you the story of how she 
started with one of our love labs and is 
now Holly caps Casey here married here 
to tell you her story and make sure if 
you haven't been following us to know 
that we are doing a dating over 50 love 
lab on Sunday July 16th 1 to 4 P.M 
they're small groups they're amazing 
they're so warm supportive full of 
information 
and with an hour of q a at the end so 
Holly will tell you about her experience 
at the love lab but with no further Ado 
number one get your spot in dating over 
50 and number two give Holly a very warm 
welcome Holly it's so good to have you 
here thank you Bella it's so nice to be 
here oh my gosh well we've got to say 
we're going from podcast to podcast with 
bookend stories aren't we we are we 
definitely are yeah because 
um I think when my my story will come 
full circle because I heard about you on 
a podcast that's what brought me to your 
love lab to start out with so and here 
we are at the end of the story after 
I've gotten married on the podcast oh my 
gosh that's why I was like oh wouldn't 
be a good idea for you since you heard 
me on a podcast in the love lab came to 
our process and now you're married to 
bookend it with a podcast to tell your 
story so Holly tell us a little bit you 
are you know kind of give us General 
demographics you're 56 I thought you 
were like 46 but you are so sweet 
that's why we're friends that is why 
we're friends you guys 
I'm 56 I live in Atlanta 
um 
I retired at the end of last year but 
had a really great career 
um a corporate career mostly in sales 
um 
fantastic career frankly um in sales uh 
leadership uh long very busy very high 
powered career you can say hi to my dog 
who's shaking around behind me 
um and lots of travel lots of uh lots of 
time spent making money and leading 
teams and doing all sorts of things for 
um big companies and so um two years ago 
I decided it was time to invest in 
myself oh I love that and I mean listen 
to that guys elected retirement at 55 
that's a pretty badass career so not 
normal so congratulations to you on your 
accomplishments yeah you worked really 
hard to get to where you are and you 
started dating when you were in the 
midst of your badass career so maybe we 
can do just set the stage for us and 
tell us a little bit about you growing 
up like give us a little bit of 
background and then we're just going to 
let you tell your story okay great so um 
I grew up in a very I would say healthy 
happy family my mom and dad met in 
college and fell in love as a matter of 
fact they're 64th wedding anniversary is 
coming up up on July 11th so a great 
example for my sister and I yeah great 
partners and um always were we were 
really close family of four 
um and so you know as far as I could see 
love happened like it did in the movies 
right you know Girl Meets Boy they fall 
in love they live happily ever after 
pretty much magical right that's pretty 
much all I knew right so 
um as a result of that I guess I never 
did date well somehow my sister learned 
how to date she dated all through high 
school had you know dated different guys 
and did like what you were supposed to 
do but for some reason I just never 
picked that up well so my my Mo was more 
that I would Pine for somebody until 
they finally asked me out then by the 
time we went out I was completely over 
him and my mother would have to talk me 
into actually going out on the date so I 
really didn't have any steady boyfriends 
didn't really experience any of that in 
high school so I did slay slightly 
better than that my freshman year in 
college I went out with people maybe 
once or twice but that was about it 
my sophomore year my friends had a 
friend of theirs from high school that 
had moved up and transferred to Texas A 
M where I went to college and so I met 
him very attracted to him we started 
dating 
um and 10 years later we got married so 
he was my first long-term boyfriend and 
we got married so I was very quickly 
attached to him and that was it oh wow 
so that's amazing I think I might not 
have remembered that important little 
detail that that was he was your first 
serious boyfriend that became your 
husband 
right with zero practice I might add so 
um didn't go particularly well because 
you know didn't again have a lot of 
knowledge about what I was getting into 
so 10 years after we were married we 
ended up getting divorced he didn't have 
a particularly healthy family of origin 
um and never really wanted to be married 
um I'd sort of talked him into it and 
and by the the 10 years into our 
marriage he had pretty much given up so 
that was my signal that it was you know 
okay you know again my example was you 
got married you stayed married so I was 
intending to be married for life but 
once given up it really was my trigger 
to say okay well there's nothing I can't 
hold it together all by myself it's time 
to give up and go on so at that point 
then I'm well into my 30s and I'm single 
and I still have zero functional dating 
experience right I still don't know any 
more than I knew at 16 years old about 
how to date and find an appropriate 
person to be with let me ask you Holly 
so this and your story is so many 
people's stories right you're it's so 
relatable Mom and Dad great they met in 
college they got married they make it 
work it's not perfect you see this 
wonderful role model and you're like 
okay I'm in college and here's my person 
and now it's time to get out of the game 
of musical chairs and let's get married 
and this is what people do and they they 
make it work now and clearly that wasn't 
the case here not because of anything 
that you did right just we didn't we 
were never taught how to date we were 
never taught how to pick people right 
and the assumption is okay you're going 
to be a good person for me because this 
is what happened to my parents in 
retrospect did you see you mentioned the 
word narcissist did you see red flags in 
the beginning 
I didn't see them looking back I can see 
a whole host of them what I saw were 
um there were things that he didn't have 
like like again his family wasn't stable 
um he was a good person but didn't have 
good examples to follow in right and so 
um you know he didn't necessarily 
believe that marriage was for a lifetime 
because he didn't see that in his what 
his mother's choices had been so he 
didn't have stability and he didn't have 
a stable home life well my parents even 
as in-laws could give him some of that 
so I saw all these opportunities that I 
could give him things that he didn't 
have and so it made me feel needed and 
it also made me feel like I could help 
him in ways that you know were great 
well that's awesome but you can't save 
somebody in areas that they don't 
necessarily need to be or want to be 
saved right and they don't even know 
that they need saving right right you 
got have all of it need want and 
awareness yeah so it's kind of lacking 
in all of them 
exactly 
so you're together now and so it was 10 
years of marriage no six years of 
marriage well no it was 10 it was 10 
years of dating then 10 years of 
marriage and then we got divorced holy 
cow okay so we actually haven't gotten 
to the narcissist yet he comes later oh 
geez Louise so and here I am pressing 
fast forward as usual so so wow okay so 
this is like more than half your life is 
with this person at this point wow okay 
and he's just like guess what we're done 
and you're like oh my god wow and you're 
back at the drawing board right yep 
so I I did what you know I knew how to 
do which was sort of for the next 20 
years I repeated the same pattern which 
was I would start to date I'd meet 
somebody that I was interested in that I 
was attracted to and then I had stopped 
seeing anybody else because I'm a one 
guy girl right and I always sort of saw 
that as a point of pride in that you 
know what I feel what I feel and I feel 
it strongly so as soon as I feel that 
attachment that's I'm all in right I'm 
gonna go after that relationship and 
then I'm gonna give it everything I've 
got well then when that one didn't work 
then I'd you know sit there and figure 
out okay well why didn't that one work 
and I'd figure out you know I always 
believe everything happens for a reason 
so I'd figure out whatever lesson it was 
I was supposed to learn and try not to 
repeat that's that same mistake the next 
time take a break figure when I'd be 
ready to to get back in the game regroup 
and then start that same cycle over 
again and to learn the next lesson 
wow and so it said and sometimes to your 
point and I have so much empathy for 
this because this is again the story of 
so many people we end up going well last 
time this guy was so and so and so next 
time I'm never doing that again and 
sometimes we over correct for things 
that weren't the root cause in the first 
place 
that's exactly right and I mean you 
can't guess all the mistakes that are 
out there to make I mean there's an 
infinite number of them and I guess 
that's that's then the next chapter of 
the next story which is 
um that you know again after one of my 
one year breaks of you know being sort 
of self-indulgent and just being like I 
just want to be alone and do what I want 
to do and then you get to that point 
where you're like okay no I'm ready 
ready for love again I'm gonna look 
again then I met a guy who I really 
found he was fun he was adventurous he 
like loved to do the same thing I love 
to do and I really felt like he was the 
one like I'd finally found the guy who 
won yeah he was great to me he was 
Charming he was adventurous he was 
handsome life was exciting life was fun 
there were some things that it's like 
you know he wasn't necessarily great to 
everybody else in his life but he was 
always great to me and six and a half 
years flew by I mean things were just 
going really really well we were getting 
to that point where he'd always said 
once this happens and once this happens 
then we'll talk about getting married we 
were getting to that point and then all 
of a sudden he just like changed 
overnight I mean it was abrupt and he I 
will never forget we went to dinner one 
night and he spent two and a half hours 
berating me over dinner I mean it was 
like a sign of this personality I had 
never seen before and over the next I 
don't know 12 hours he dumped me and I 
was absolutely shocked and I mean 
shocked because up until that point 
everything went fantastic six and a half 
years six and a half of course well and 
and what you come to realize is that 
it's never as black and white as you 
think it is right where you know like 
I'm a complete victim and I'm completely 
shocked well when you step back and I 
had some therapy afterwards it helped me 
see I had been dating a narcissist and I 
had never known a narcissist I'd never 
known what a narcissist was and so when 
I looked back there was a host of red 
flags and I mean bright red flags and I 
should have seen them but I didn't I 
ignored him because it's that old thing 
when somebody's rude to a waiter you 
better notice because whatever they're 
doing the other people they're gonna do 
to you they just haven't done it yet and 
so try as hard as this guy might because 
he really is a good guy he couldn't get 
away from all of those patterns that 
were inside of him and So eventually it 
came around and it happened to me so it 
was as much my fault as anybody else's 
but it also helped me 
sort of left me in that place where it 
said all right well there's a narcissist 
is one psychological challenge I never 
knew anything about how many other ones 
are there out there that I'm gonna have 
to be an expert in so that I could spot 
those so I don't waste another five to 
ten years of my life and then get 
surprised by somebody else's issues 
right you're like wow that was brutal 
are there 11 more of these things that 
I'm gonna have to experience no thank 
you all right 
oh my gosh so what happened then so now 
you're aware you become aware of wow the 
this was a full-blown narcissist I 
missed the red flags so now you're 
sitting there what happens next and how 
old were you at this point so then I was 
probably approached I was late 40s okay 
um yeah and so then 
um I took a break 
um maybe I was even early 50s that was 
probably early 50s so 
um I took another year break because it 
seems to me a year is about my time 
where it's like oh I gotta take a breath 
right and it sort of resettled myself 
um and then covet happened so we all 
took a break and 
um 
during covid that year time sort of 
passed and I and I could feel myself 
being ready like to open myself back up 
and um you know as I was sitting at my 
kitchen counter doing paint by numbers 
um listening to podcasts uh one of the 
podcasts I had stumbled on was 
um this is 50 and that was Nancy holla 
and Sherry Salata and it was two ladies 
in their 50s ex talking about all kinds 
of things that that obviously felt very 
right to me because I was in my early 
50s too and one of the things they were 
talking about was dating and so I found 
it very interesting and that's when they 
were talking about you and what you do 
and that's when that piqued my interest 
and I became aware of the love lab and 
of your coaching and of Smart dating 
Academy 
okay wow so it's Nancy holla 
um Sherry Salada and so now you are on 
our list and you see an email come 
through for the love lab is that what 
happened yeah well I did some reason 
because I was listening to them on the 
podcast and you were helping Nancy so I 
got some familiarity about what you did 
and how that all worked and it sounded 
like fun right and I could hear how you 
interacted with her and I thought well 
that sounds cool and then I did some 
research about you know what else you 
did and you know the love lab in 
particular and I really did seem like a 
good way to get back into the online 
world because I think everybody that's 
done the online side knows how daunting 
it is to start right to sit down and 
write a profile is like sitting down to 
write your resume it's just painful I 
mean there's nothing worse than talking 
about yourself for all the world to see 
and especially your romantic self 
um and so I know looking it up and and 
seeing that you helped with not only 
profile writing but figuring out what 
pictures what your pictures should be 
what they should look like all of that 
kind of stuff that really appealed to me 
because none of those things were things 
I knew much about and I knew I needed 
some help so that was my first step was 
I signed up for the love lab I went 
through that and the approach to writing 
the profile was probably my favorite 
thing but I also walked out of the love 
lab with a whole list of things 
um that that really did inform how I was 
going to go into getting back online and 
and kind of approaching the whole thing 
with a clean slate and feeling positive 
about it 
I love that all right so 
so what happened what happened after you 
did the love lab so you're all fired up 
you're like I got I've got all this 
information I've just been on this three 
hour session you feel great you're 
riding the high then what happens 
so I go out I get a photographer to take 
my pictures my profile look great I felt 
really good I felt like it reflected my 
authentic personality which I felt great 
about 
um and then shortly so I get my profile 
all up shortly thereafter 
um I had a family week at the beach and 
so I'm sitting with my mom and my sister 
of course my sister's also happily 
married she's been married for like 30 
years as well 
um and so they're fascinating my mom's 
thrilled right that I'm gonna do this so 
they're fascinated to see all the guys 
on the site so so we're going through 
and I let them each pick two guys for me 
to reach out to and it took them forever 
to find two guys they felt like were 
appropriate and they'd find one then 
they'd one of the guys that were like oh 
this guy looks perfect and we're looking 
through the pictures and we zoom in on 
one of the pictures and I'm like looking 
at there's a name tag I'm like this guy 
works on my team we need to use this guy 
so I mean 
forever to find two that they each felt 
like okay this is a good guy that you 
should go after so the process they 
earned a new appreciation for exactly 
how hard this is and it also underscored 
for me that nobody in my circle really 
understood or was going through what I 
was trying to do because when you're in 
your 50s the circle of people that are 
out trying to date is very small because 
most of my friends and my you know my 
mom my sister when they had dated it was 
back in their 20s or you know a long 
time ago and so it's all changed a lot 
since then so 
part of what I was doing was I was 
trying to make sure that I was following 
what I'd learned which was I needed to 
talk to all types of guys not just the 
usual ones that I would think was 
retractive not skipping steps so first I 
you know you do the chat on the site and 
then that goes to a phone call and then 
after you've had a phone call which 
screens out many of the crazies then you 
go to a video chat and then after a 
video chat then you go to him in person 
so I was doing all of that and so my 
your first in-person Meetup was lunch 
with a guy who admittedly was not one 
that I would normally have been 
attracted to but was this one of the 
guys that your mom and your sister 
picked it was not it was a different 
okay 
so but um but there were some things 
that I found interesting about him and I 
thought you know what hey we're gonna 
try it it's different right so we meet 
up for lunch and it is clear within the 
first 10 minutes it is not a match I 
mean the fact that I already knew that 
he was genetically predisposed to have 
an excessive amount of earwax during a 
lunch date 
yeah it just wasn't gonna work so but I 
was gonna try and be out front exactly I 
was going to try and be upfront and 
honest right and when he was very direct 
and so when he said 
do you want to see me again I was direct 
back and honestly explained that while I 
was enjoying our conversation I just 
wasn't feeling a romantic connection so 
thank you but no so I then spent the 
next 30 minutes trying to extricate 
myself from that table from ear wax he 
was still arguing with me as to why I 
should see him again as I was shutting 
my car door to leave the restaurant it 
was a nightmare so it was on my drive 
home that I realized I really didn't 
want to do this on my own that I needed 
some reinforcements and one of my 
strengths is knowing what I don't know 
and I do not know how to date 
successfully and I don't know how to 
enjoy dating it scares the hell out of 
me and so I really knew I wanted more 
help from Smart dating Academy and from 
you than just the love lab oh my gosh so 
now I'm I'm guessing you emailed me and 
said hey 
remember me like I'd like to hop on 
board so yes I think I did that 
afternoon as a matter of fact right like 
okay we're right so after you were in 
the love lab you're like okay this is a 
close little cocoon they're fun it'll be 
fun I don't want to go at this alone so 
smart it's like hiring it's like you 
know I can go to the gym and try to drop 
20 pounds and I can run on the treadmill 
and if I'm not getting the results I 
want let's bring in someone who can get 
to know me and really assess like a 
personal trainer would who I am who I 
need to be with not just who I want to 
be with and then help me to get there 
exactly well and I mentioned earlier 
that um I had a long corporate career 
and I ended my career as a senior vice 
president and along the way I was lucky 
enough to have a company that invested a 
lot in me and one of the things they did 
for me was I had an executive coach that 
worked with me several times and that 
investment I mean that gave me 
exponential 
um increases in my leadership and not 
only changed my career but also my my 
personal life right it really did expand 
who I was as a person so to me the value 
of Executive coaching is absolutely 
Priceless and so to me this is Executive 
coaching for your life right and it this 
this was the moment that I said to 
myself you know what I am worth 
investing in for myself because this is 
a part of my life I don't know how to do 
this and I'm I'm either going to keep 
floundering along doing whatever I do 
and learn learning about random 
psychological conditions as I go or I'm 
going to go to an expert that can help 
actually make this fun and help me take 
a stab at doing this a different way and 
get something better out of it than I've 
been getting all the way along and so 
that's what I did 
I love that I remember our first three 
hour jump start session so well that was 
you know our goal is to wrap you in pink 
sparkly bubble wrap through the process 
I'm like well we're gonna try to help 
you find love we're also going to 
protect you from the 21 different 
maladies that you need to know out there 
right and it's the we have lists of red 
flags right that you're gonna see by 
phase of dating and we took you through 
the whole marriage map process and 
helped you define who your high GHQ guy 
is so after that three hour session 
you're feeling pretty 
yeah how did you feel I feel great I 
mean I felt yeah you feel like you have 
your Posse right that's gonna help you 
look out it's gonna help look out for 
you I also think the biggest thing for 
me right is 
um I'm very goal oriented right and I 
love I like you know you set up the 
goals and I'll knock them down right and 
generally I can figure out a way to get 
there but I can't I can't ingest 
everything all at once right so it's 
that whole like how do you eat an 
elephant one bite at its time you guys 
are the expert and I think the thing I 
like the most was the process was like 
you know the whole process and you fed 
it to me as I needed to right so I 
didn't have to learn the 85 red flags I 
learned them as we went right you would 
tell me a few and ahead of time and then 
like I'd work with Lindsay every week 
right and she'd go into my inbox and 
look and she'd be like oh you see how 
that says that in this little chat thing 
you don't want to touch that and here's 
why and it's like oh okay well yeah I 
wouldn't so the next time I saw that I 
already knew that right but it was like 
you learn as you go and it really did 
help build up a lot of knowledge as 
opposed to just trying to memorize a 
list and then going trying to go out and 
and you know because you can read all 
kinds of books you can read all kinds of 
articles but it's really having the 
um somebody sit side by side with you 
and helps you see that see that do you 
see how he answered that do you see how 
he didn't answer that and like after 
every date the debrief they would say 
okay so what did he say how did he 
answer that did you get an answer to 
this and then really saying like I can 
remember us talking about David and her 
saying okay he's he's actually doing 
what he says he's doing and she's 
picking up on patterns that I'm not even 
thinking about because I'm like he's so 
cute right and she's like yeah but he's 
doing what he says he's going to do and 
you know he's never making you wonder 
and she's pointing out things that it's 
like oh yeah he is you're right he's 
doing all the things I wanted him to do 
oh my gosh well let's I love that and 
let's take a step back so you I remember 
being in your inbox with you I know 
Lindsay was in your inbox with you and 
you had a great response online and we 
would go through person by person and we 
would look at reading the profiles 
reading the messages who was good who 
wasn't good who we were gonna A-list who 
we were gonna be list right and this is 
how we right and this is how we keep 
people from getting overwhelmed because 
when you get a big response many are not 
appropriate right maybe not I think I 
don't think we had another earwax 
repetitor so thank goodness I found that 
one On My Own by the way yeah 
you're like high five that was all me 
thanks that was all so much for that but 
you know ultimately you had a lot of 
interest and you had a lot of dates and 
then and then there was this interesting 
guy David and you had you had some you 
had interesting people like let's talk 
about that in the beginning and then get 
to David yeah so I will say like 
um 
the the way you worked me through the 
process that I found really helpful was 
you didn't let me get attached too soon 
um and like I will say one of my 
favorite artifacts which I have right 
here with me is my little notebook and I 
had a page for every guy that I was 
communicating with so I could remember 
Salient points so then I could go back 
and have the right conversation with the 
right people uh but yeah there were lots 
of guys to choose from and having 
different dates and having you guys have 
helped me focus on okay so this is date 
one with David I want you to go and have 
fun and just see what you see right you 
know be the the bright fun you and see 
how he is and then we'll come back and 
for day two we'll talk about what that 
looks like and it really did help me get 
to know people at the right pace and not 
put too much into a date and try and get 
too far too soon 
um um and also not 
it made sure I stayed on Pace and kept 
comparing and kept the all the you know 
kept the options open I guess longer 
than I would have normally for sure 
right it's like having that funnel right 
yes yeah which ironically it is funny 
because I had a career in sales right 
and in in sales you always have a funnel 
right how many times have I coached 
sales people and having a funnel and yet 
for dating I never had a funnel you have 
to have a funnel it's got to be wide at 
the entrance and it gets narrowed down 
at the at the close but you gotta have a 
funnel 
yeah 100 so you learn how to navigate 
and again you know people we all think 
oh I know what a narcissist is I've read 
a book and I know you know what an 
avoidant is I've run attached and here 
like Holly saying you guys it's being in 
the arena at that moment where you don't 
know okay is this something or is this 
not and sometimes you're so used to red 
flags and your your skin is so thick 
because you've been with so many 
narcissists that you don't even feel the 
red flags you might know oh X is a red 
flag but you don't perceive that as a 
red flag in the moment and that's why 
we're there going yeah no see this this 
is not a good thing and so so we we let 
certain people in and we let certain 
people out and then there was a certain 
man named David who 
came into your inbox tell us about that 
and he was cute he was very cute I 
remember 
um it was funny because I had flipped 
through and that was the day that 
Lindsay was going through my inbox with 
me 
um and I had flipped through and I'd 
seen him I was like oh he's cute and so 
I had already thought well I'm going to 
respond to him but she gets on there and 
she's like oh he looks nice you should 
respond to him I was like oh good I was 
going to anyway yeah 
but 
in common and um 
from the first date it was very easy 
conversation and I found him very 
interesting and 
um one of my favorite things about 
working with y'all and especially in 
regards to him was that 
um as I learned more about him and I 
would come back and I would report back 
because I always had an assignment every 
every meeting I left I had an assignment 
and so and I followed directions right 
if you're gonna sure do then by God do 
what they tell you to do and so every 
time I would come back and I would have 
done my homework and so if that meant I 
had to go ask three uncomfortable 
questions I went and asked them because 
I was supposed to find the answers so I 
would go and I would ask the questions 
and come back and it always helped me 
learn more and keep progressing 
um and he is a wonderful man he is 
um is I was looking back at some of the 
notes that I had taken over the the 
months that all this happened and 
um again you helped me realize in the 
inner actions I had with him like 
recognizing the feelings that I had like 
I was having a day where I was in a bad 
mood but I went and I saw him and he 
made me feel like he was a safe haven 
right and so it's recognizing how I felt 
with it when I was with him and 
um 
just I mean it felt safe and it felt 
right and it has felt safe and it has 
felt right the whole time 
um and solid and just 
one of the well again one of the other 
things that I wrote down that you've 
told me was that both of us should feel 
like we are the lucky ones and to this 
day both of us feel like we are the 
lucky ones oh I love that that gave me 
goosebumps I love that so much and 
you're right you you had to have some 
direct conversations and I know as we 
you know our process is very much 
have a dating funnel then date people 
well narrow it down to you know like 
Holly said in a sales funnel like you 
narrow it down to your top three your 
top two your top one then you can become 
exclusive right then you had that 
conversation right are we exclusive 
there was I was to the point 
really didn't want to go out with anyone 
else 
have the check-in and said okay so what 
else do I have to do so I don't have to 
go out with anyone else besides David 
and the question was well what don't you 
know about him that you need to know and 
in thinking through everything it's like 
I don't know and it came down to well I 
don't know we've talked about 
I'm pretty sure he wants to be married 
again right 
and then it was like well do you know he 
wants to be married again I was like oh 
maybe not so that night at dinner I was 
like you work to see yourself in five 
years yeah and you did it 
yeah and so uh so that night we had the 
conversation and by the end of that 
evening we were exclusive 
I love that okay so now you have a 
boyfriend right and coaching and the 
coaching continues you know you continue 
with the same Cadence to make sure that 
this dude is good for you so phase one 
is funnel dating multiple people getting 
down to one person ideally then you have 
the conversation by the end of dinner 
you and David were exclusive but that's 
not where it ends right right and that 
again I think that was exceptionally 
helpful because 
the old me and actually frankly the 
current me it was like yeah I have a 
boyfriend everything's great now I'm 
just fine right and it was helpful to 
have not my friends not my family saying 
you know is he okay is he okay but you 
guys check in on me and saying okay so 
have you talked about finances have you 
talked about where would you where you 
live what do you what about your aging 
parents what's going to happen when your 
parents are older did you talk about you 
know is he showing up how much time are 
you spending together is that good for 
you is it good for him have you talked 
about whether that's good for him so all 
of those conversations happened at sort 
of a steady Pace because we were 
checking in to say you know where are 
you and what do you know and what do you 
not know so um that was extremely 
helpful and kept I think both of us on 
the right track and at some point I did 
tell him I was doing all this stuff like 
so I want to ask you some questions 
you're like I have these dating coaches 
all right and I well and the world's 
worst liar and poker player so at some 
point it was just easier to Fest of hey 
here's the deal here's the deal here's 
the deal I love that and so I know by 
the time your coaching was coming to a 
close we knew this was headed in a 
hundred percent the right direction that 
the next step was engagement 
yeah I will say I mean we knew it was 
headed in the right direction it was the 
right relationship for sure 
um I will say more engagement was a 
complete surprise to me 
um I thought we would end up getting 
engaged at some point in the future I 
was not in any big hurry 
um I was 
you know I knew I was contemplating 
getting retired so or becoming choosing 
to retire 
um and I didn't think he would do it 
anytime around then I thought it would 
probably be sometime this year 
um and then he surprised me when we were 
on a hiking trip last August 
um and we hiked out to an observation 
point at Zion National Park and I turned 
around and he had a ring out and and 
proposed so I mean it's like which is 
just quintessential to him and and I 
think my favorite part of this story 
number one he surprised me which I just 
love 
um and he got very emotional when he 
asked me to marry him 
um which I think is so sweet and I said 
yes of course and then we were up there 
all by ourselves and we sat down to you 
know have some water and and you know 
just sort of soak in the moment and I 
said so did anybody know you were doing 
this today and I said well I called your 
he said I called your parents last 
Wednesday and that's when I got 
emotional that is is David to a t he's 
the most thoughtful wonderful man I have 
ever met and a every tribulation and 
every painful dating experience I ever 
went through was worth it to find him 
and I would highly encourage everybody 
to adopt the psychotically optimistic 
Outlook because it's worth it 
and even when you think it can't happen 
for you it can right love is out there 
for me it's a when it's not an if and 
think about what you're doing and if 
you're not getting the results you want 
you gotta change something yeah and 
something big compromise right and 
they're not compromises I'm definitely 
one of those people I'd rather be by 
myself than with the wrong person but 
when you find the right person you will 
definitely know it right and it's an 
easy relationship for sure 
right like can you imagine it's like 
having a best friend yeah you like to 
sleep with yeah yeah yeah and I will you 
know a couple of my friends have asked 
me like when was the moment you knew you 
were in love and I can't tell you a 
moment because it just grew 
um which again I think was part of what 
you guys had described to me in that 
it's not a chemistry butterflies 
lightning feeling 
it's a you know when it's when it's 
truly right it's gonna grow and it's 
going to be really solid 
right and it's not that moment of 
electricity where oh my God it that's 
all in the movies right ultimately this 
just feels like wow it's super easy and 
it grows and it's you know it's like you 
uncork a great bottle of wine and it 
just gets better as it ages right and so 
um and so you guys got engaged I 
remember getting the I remember getting 
your email with the photos with your 
engagement ring and you had this super 
awesome green nail polish on 
it's one of green nails today too you 
have green nails today and you were so 
awesome to send Lindsay me a photo of 
you guys hiking and we'll have a whole 
page for Holly on our site so you guys 
can watch her journey and see her 
engagement pictures and then you guys 
what happened June 10th like this was a 
this was a pretty pretty uh pretty 
expedited path you were on like waste no 
time 
yeah so we got married we uh we picked 
June 10th because his daughter is 
um in college in Madrid so and lives 
part-time in Italy so we wanted to make 
sure she got a chance to come home his 
son is a student at Purdue so we wanted 
to make sure both of them could come 
home so that's why we picked 
um June because it was the best time and 
so we got to have all four of our 
parents were here and all of our 
families were here and it was a 
fantastic celebration of love and it was 
just amazing it was everything we had 
hoped for and owe so much more 
and you guys there's a photo of Holly as 
if you haven't seen it yet in her 
wedding dress and it is so darn cute and 
you looked amazing 
thank you we were very happy we really 
are oh and he's as handsome as they get 
too so I guess by the time this episode 
drops it'll be like your one month 
wedding anniversary yeah and your 
parents 64th anniversary I know 
and I remember as part of working with 
us when you did 12 months you did this 
360 feedback process and you had your 
parents email us your sister and your 
whole village just wanted you to find 
the lid to your pot and I'm so happy to 
know that a couple years later you have 
truly found the perfectly fitting lid to 
your cute little pot truly and I 
couldn't I couldn't express my 
appreciation enough for everything that 
you did for me thank you so much and it 
was fun too 
it was fun man I remember being in your 
inbox with you and we just giggled the 
whole time and some of these guys 
profiled right and the things that they 
say and you know and if you're listening 
to this just know that at some point 
that last first date is gonna happen to 
you just like it happened to Holly it 
will it definitely will and the 
in-between is fun too even though I mean 
you have some of those moments where you 
got to do hard things uh because you 
have to have the conversation uh to 
either you know end something or you 
have a direct conversation that doesn't 
turn out like you want to be but you 
know what it's just a moment and you 
move on and the good stuff it lies 
Beyond so the good thing is you got 
somebody on your in your corner helping 
you get through it all and it and if 
they do make it fun and it all works out 
oh I'm so glad so you would tell people 
that are on the fence do the love lab 
absolutely I mean it's such a low stakes 
way to do it and it definitely gives you 
a taste of 
um how do you get how do you get started 
and it's so there's so much information 
about the process and follow the process 
because it works it really really does 
oh that's awesome well Holly hates 
people like you that make Lindsay me 
Eileen Captain our whole team think we 
have the best jobs in the world because 
we get to work with the best people just 
like you so I'm so honored to have had a 
part in your journey and 
um thank you so much for telling your 
story and inspiring so many people guys 
you you heard this I mean Holly's just 
like so many of you right 
trials and tribulations you go through 
lots and lots of dates lots of 
relationships but don't lose hope do the 
thing you never know what that one 
change is that you can make that's going 
to be the change that changes everything 
that's right 
well any last parting words of advice 
you want to give to our dear listener 
I would just say you were worth the work 
you're worth the effort that great guy 
or girl is out there waiting for you so 
do it oh I love that well Holly Capps 
Casey we love you and we're gonna have 
to have you back at your one year 
anniversary just to fill us in on how 
year one of marriage is going in your 
50s sounds great well thank you love you 
too 
