[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love today I am so 
excited about our guest she is amazing 
I'm sure if you haven't seen her in a 
magazine or on Instagram or in the 
10,000 other places that she's been 
including on shows and on her own 
podcast I am so delighted and grateful 
to have have the amazing Laura waser 
yay hey Bella it's so good to have you 
and for those of you who have been 
hiding under a rock and you don't know 
who she is let me just give you a couple 
of Snippets about my friend here who is 
beautiful if you haven't seen her Laura 
waser is an author entrepreneur and 
family law expert she is the senior 
partner at the law firm waser Cooper men 
mandals the founder and CEO of it's over 
easy the online divorce service how cool 
is that and one of the creators and the 
most giant fan of the next chapter 
collection of luxury candles which are 
amazing and smell absolutely Divine 
Laura has represented celebrities like 
wait for Kim Kardashian Britney Spears 
Dr Dre Kelly Clarkson Jimmy Ivy Maria 
Shriver Stevie wonderer and the list 
goes on and on and on but our friend 
Laura maintains that divorce is the 
great equalizer it terrifies everyone on 
Earth Laura's made it her mission to 
change that and we're going to find out 
how welcome again to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast Laura thank you for 
having me oh my gosh well tell us I mean 
how do you do what you do how did you 
become you did you dream about becoming 
a divorce attorney when you were a 
teenager when and then how did you get 
to where you are today with all of these 
amazing accomplishments I did not dream 
of becoming a divorc attorney I didn't 
even dream of becoming an attorney my 
parents named me Laura Allison waser and 
my initial spell law because they got my 
dad's bar results from the California 
bar which is the test you have to take 
to become a lawyer and then they you 
know celebrated and I was conceived and 
so I came out being law and for years I 
fought it I was like I'm not GNA be a 
lawyer that's so boring I don't want to 
do that and my father was actually a 
family law attorney a divorce lawyer and 
I certainly was never going to be that 
kind of a lawyer and then I got married 
very briefly in 1993 very briefly and as 
I was waiting for my bar results after I 
finished law school we quickly realized 
that we were probably too young to have 
gotten married and this wasn't the 
greatest 
uh fit and so after about 14 months we 
we got divorced and it was my first case 
that I actually handled on my own and 
because I needed money since we were now 
having to move out of the place we'd 
rented and had car payments I said to my 
dad can I come work for you just for a 
little bit he said yes and I never left 
and then I kind of took over the firm 
and um I really like doing this kind of 
law because I'm sure as you will see but 
on a different end of it it's all about 
human nature and human relationships and 
how people deal with communication and 
feelings and obviously the end of 
relationships as opposed to the 
beginning of relationships but the 
beginning of a new kind of relationship 
with the person to whom you were married 
or had a child with so I really like it 
because it's problem solving and it's 
very interesting for me as a student of 
human 
nature yeah and like you said I love all 
of that and you're helping people to end 
something but begin a new phase of their 
relationship and hopefully a better way 
because divorce is never fun no it's not 
fun and hence next chapter collection 
which is really talking about the next 
chapter of your life and these candles 
that smell good and you buy for a friend 
or you you know light while you're 
getting ready to go on that next date 
because I feel like having practiced 
family law for so many years part of 
this journey that you go through with 
people as you see them at the beginning 
at kind of a really uncertain and scary 
time particularly in this day and age 
uncertain and then kind of see them to 
the end of it and as they're kind of 
being rebirthed into the world and 
starting on their next chapters it 
really is cool to see and having nothing 
to do with legal career I have actually 
had many conversations with many clients 
about how do I date now like I haven't 
been with anybody since I had a 
C-section with my husband and it's so 
different now because of online and you 
know sometimes I can give them some 
words of wisdom but for the most part I 
would just sell send them to Bella like 
figure that out there but it is an 
opportunity to kind of represent 
yourself not only to whomever is sitting 
across from you at the table but to 
yourself and feel good about yourself in 
this next chapter so I really that's one 
of the reasons I love what I do is kind 
of seeing it through to the end and then 
kind of just watching my baby birds fly 
away into their next chapter yeah you 
know people ask me all the time similar 
to you how do I know that I'm ready to 
date after divorce and you know once you 
feel feel like you've gotten as much 
closure as you can get right you've 
healed as much as you can I think it for 
most people it's crazy to say I'm Healed 
I'm no longer angry or pissed or 
whatever it is it's just okay have you 
closed that chapter and you feel like 
you've invested in you have you fallen 
in love with yourself a little bit 
you've gotten back to the things that 
make you happy that you love to do and 
the thought of dating puts a little bit 
of a spring in your step and I'll tell 
you what Laura and I were having a 
little bit of a discussion about online 
dating and how it might feel like human 
eBay to some extent but getting yourself 
comfortable with online dating and 
meeting people in real life and getting 
set up right and and how to navigate 
those things because if you don't do 
that soul searching work chances are 
what we do is we do another round of 
ending up with the the same person again 
it's like same dude different face year 
over year decade over decade instead 
take that time to sit down when you 
enter your next chapter yeah and say who 
do I want to be with for the next 30 40 
50 70 years of my life how do I want to 
feel when I'm with this person and don't 
date until you've done that inside work 
because if not you might come right back 
to the waser law firm all over again 
exactly well you hosted a show called 
divorce sucks and I love the name of 
that title why do you think divorce 
sucks and for those of us so many maybe 
you're out there listening to this show 
after you've gotten divorced once or 
twice or three times but from your 
experience both personally and 
professionally why does divorce suck so 
badly I think part of the reason it 
sucks is because it's scary so many 
people that I meet with you know they 
may be the most wealthy educated 
sophisticated and they'll say oh I'm 
really sorry I just don't know anything 
about divorce and I think well why would 
you like you don't usually go into a 
marriage thinking you're going to get 
divorced and so it's very scary because 
not only are you dealing with something 
that's super emotional and often on some 
level sad nobody's all you know nobody's 
thrilled to be get ending a marriage um 
but it's also a legal 
complicated process which promotes fear 
in terms of are my kids going to be okay 
am I going to be okay when my kids 
aren't at my house I love putting them 
to bed every night and I love hearing 
them wake up every morning are am I 
going to be able to pay my mortgage or 
my rent what am I going to do for an you 
know some kind of an infusion of income 
I don't know and how am I going to be 
able to pay for all of the things that I 
have and how am I going to continue to 
live in the lifestyle that I live so 
it's really scary and it's also a little 
bit sad because the person that at some 
point you must have said Till Death to 
us part is now no longer by your side 
and so you're kind of in it on your own 
and you're depending on people that you 
have to pay usually an hourly fee to to 
be your Advocate which is kind of scary 
if you think about the fact that those 
people are getting paid for your 
conflict so the more conflict there is 
for you the more money we make um and so 
it's kind of a daunting situation which 
for lack of a better or more legally 
sophisticated word 
sucks it sucks and do you find for 
people as they get into the divorce 
process it sucks even more like they may 
have come in okay ready to split and 
then they just go bananas mid divorce or 
what causes people to go so crazy during 
divorce I actually think people are 
going crazy a little bit less than they 
were I think now people I think people 
are kind of doing some educating of 
themselves beforehand sometimes I'll say 
it may get worse before it gets better 
but sometimes taking that first step and 
beginning the learning process and 
feeling like you're actually becoming 
the master of your own destiny and doing 
something feels really good for people 
sometimes there's a little bit of a peak 
where it gets really ugly like when 
everybody lawyers up and okay what are 
we going to do but then usually what 
happens is it calms down I'd say 85 to 
90% of our cases settle and then and 
then most people then the dust settle 
even more and they're able to have kind 
of a good whether it's co-parenting or 
if they've owned a business together 
then it's actually okay so it's that 
first bit that's the scariest and I'll 
also say this another reason why divorce 
sucks and another reason why I think 
things are changing a little bit is 
because for so many years divorce was so 
taboo it was a failure and it was 
horrible and although even today in 2022 
nobody wants to get divorced the fact is 
the statistics show that half of 
marriages not half of people but half of 
marriages end in divorce and that that 
statistic grows if it's your second 
marriage it's more likely to end in 
divorce so that's what kind of rounds 
out that bell curve of half marriages 
ending in divorce if that's happening 
this much we must have to figure out a 
better way of approaching it and so I 
think it may suck a little less now that 
we are normalizing it for people now 
that we have better methods to deal with 
it that's what I call the evolution of 
dissolution not making it such a taboo 
having people kind of learn about it if 
they can online we have all kinds of 
workshops and webinars and seminars that 
people can take so it's not so daunting 
and so scary so that you can go into it 
you can deal with the emotional aspects 
of a relationship ending and then deal 
with the legal and financial aspects 
separately so you really handle your 
divorce more like a business transaction 
and like I said there's so many things 
that we have available to us in this day 
and age that our parents or their 
parents didn't have that I think it 
makes it suck a little bit less and 
people come to the table without 
necessarily being so crazy because they 
do realize maybe just because I've been 
saying it for 27 years the more you 
argue the more money the lawyers 
make oh amen amen amen um and I love 
this and I read this about you one of 
your favorite sayings is and she lived 
happily ever after on her own do you 
believe in love the second time around 
or the third time or the fourth time 
around oh totally I first of all I'm a 
serial monogamist I believe in love I 
love being in love I love falling in 
love I really do believe every time you 
fall in love you're falling a little bit 
in love with yourself as well again and 
of course I do at any age or stage I 
mean it's so crazy we've had clients 
come in that are in their 80s and I kind 
of think like one of the younger 
Associates said the other day like why 
bother and I'm like what she's just 
going to wait for him to die like 
every day needs to be lived till it's to 
its fullest and if you've hit a point 
again I'm a big fan of coup's counseling 
and you know weekend retreats to do 
whatever work needs to be done on the 
relationship but if it really isn't 
working get out and move on because yes 
love the second third fourth time around 
it's there that's the Human Condition we 
want to love and be 
loved 100% we're wired to love and be 
loved and 
you I love what you said you said 
something earlier about before let's say 
you've had love now the second or third 
or fourth time around at any age and you 
help people to put something together 
for you if you're you I'm sure you've 
heard of this called a prenup or 
prenuptual agreement you know kind of 
hammering out I've got this you've got 
that before you get married and putting 
together these legal documents and you 
said how having conversations 
about what's going to go into the prenup 
can lead to a better relationship tell 
me more about that because I agree with 
you 100 per. I feel like you know I get 
asked often to speak with you know 
women's groups particularly because a 
lot of women are very uncomfortable 
around the subject of money and I've 
also been asked to represent young women 
but men as well that are you know the 
Breadwinners if they're a singer 
Entertainer actor they their business 
team brings me in to say we know you're 
madly in love and that's wonderful but 
how about a prenup and listen to this 
woman since we're all making a 
percentage of what you earn and you're 
going to be pissed at us listen to her 
you'll never see her again tell you why 
and so kind of as like a big sister 
figure I'll explain that again having a 
a sense of financial literacy is 
important to all people but in terms of 
the prenuptual agreement if you are able 
to communicate not only only just 
Financial issues but expectations have 
the conversations even if both of you 
have nothing have conversations that are 
not super comfortable or sexy about what 
each of you feels will be important 
during the marriage and what the 
responsibilities will be during the 
marriage and who has what can you 
imagine getting married to somebody and 
he or she has a great deal of debt and 
you didn't know about it and so now 
every month part of the paycheck that's 
coming in is going to pay that debt you 
want to know what they have and what 
they owe and what they earn and maybe 
what they spend and what they save for 
hey what do you think I'm I I want to 
make sure we have enough money to go on 
a nice vacation every year oh no I'm 
saving so that we can you know buy a 
house and what about kids and my parents 
are elderly and when they you know when 
they need it I would like them to be 
able to come live with us as opposed to 
putting them in Assisted Living how do 
you feel with that that's not all stuff 
that's going to go into a prenut Bella 
but that's all stuff that should be 
discussed and again not super sexy or 
romantic but the level of comfort that 
you want to have with somebody that 
you're going to get married to I say 
this to people all the time if he's 
going to be in the delivery room with 
you while you're pushing out a baby this 
is way more comfortable than that 
scenario so let's have those 
conversations now and although I don't 
have the same great statistics that you 
have over 12 years of not having any 
people that you've set up getting 
divorced I will say that the prenuptual 
agreements we do even while we're 
negotiating them can get a little bit 
dicey very few of those people come back 
and get divorced because the discomfort 
happens at the front end and the 
expectations are very clear going in 
absolutely and that doveet tales in your 
philosophy so well with what we have our 
daters do so often you know people will 
come to me after having been in a 
relationship for three years and maybe 
they've lived together and and finally 
that I didn't know he didn't want to get 
married like how did you not know that 
like right and so having these convers 
ation in the dating process we are 
having people even to some extent before 
you get exclusive with somebody now in 
the Smart dating house rules we're 
saying no exclusivity with someone until 
three to four months of slow dating 15 
to 20 dates so we have graphs and we're 
very nerdy on what a good trajectory 
should look like but in that time asking 
those questions what do you value kind 
of how do you spend your money how do 
you save your money ask these things 
upfront where do you want to live when 
would you like to retire how do you want 
to retire people are so scared to ask 
these questions because it's like oh my 
gosh am I too extra am I going to be too 
much no you love yourself enough to say 
this is what I want and I don't want to 
settle for someone who doesn't want the 
same things that I want absolutely 
absolutely you know one of the the 
dating term of 2022 is called hard 
balling and I know that sounds a little 
like what hard balling but it's kind of 
say what you mean mean what you say by 
the third or fourth date don't hem and 
haot if you are looking for a 
relationship that is exclusive serious 
maybe leads to marriage to kids say that 
upfront don't waste your time anymore 
right I think that's really smart hard 
balling I like it hard balling so um 
let me you know I read off the names of 
you know many famous A-list people and I 
know you know the details of those 
things are super confidential because we 
deal with people that are also in the 
public eye that we put online believe it 
or not with dating but do you see any 
differences Laura in the way you know we 
all kind of fantasize about celebrities 
how they get married or how they get 
divorces like what are the biggest 
differences if any between how they are 
versus the rest of us on the ground 
media it really is Media the fact I mean 
again I would imagine that people want 
their weddings and their happiness and 
everything else to be publicized and 
there's certainly ways of getting that 
out there if they're celebrities they 
don't necessarily feel that way about 
their breakups and so while folks like 
gwenth and Chris and Ben and Jen and Jen 
and Justin have been great I'm saying 
this I know them I don't but but you 
know have been great about giving us 
catchphrases like conscious uncoupling 
or gentle separation um it actually has 
helped trickle down to us common folk 
because if the famous people that we all 
look up to so much are doing it in a 
better and more civilized and respectful 
manner hey we can do that too also I 
feel like there's like a certain level 
of shod and Freud and that's why the 
moment a divorce gets filed TMZ and 
radar and E entertainment all pick it up 
we like seeing our celebrities not only 
get married and have babies and do 
wonderful things but we like seeing that 
they fail just like we do as well and so 
being able to see that and then see how 
they do it is different that being said 
um if you're filing documents that may 
say I'm concerned about this person's 
drinking or marijuana smoking because of 
our kids or this person was AB abusive 
or whatever else that's also going to 
get picked up very quickly so 
celebrities have to be very careful 
about what gets filed because they're 
treated just like everyone else by our 
court systems and so a lot of times they 
will be a little bit more ready to 
mediate out of the public eye settle 
differences between themselves as 
opposed to a bunch of public mudslinging 
so that is actually an advantage to 
representing celebrities because they 
want they have a vested interest in 
keeping things quiet they don't want 
their kid at the market looking at at 
the news stand with a ugly thing 
splashed across it w um and I would also 
say you know More Money More Problems to 
a certain extent if you are super 
wealthy or famous I think that there are 
a lot of other things that can become 
problems not as big of a problem as 
having the sleep in your car but 
certainly problematic and so there's 
differences there but as you said 
earlier it really is the great equalizer 
whether you're worried about who you're 
going to walk the red carpet with or 
what they're going to say about you on 
the cover of Us magazine or you're 
worried who you're going to go to the 
company picnic party with or who the you 
know local gossip is going to be talking 
about in the supermarket line those are 
still concerns and it does make us feel 
scared and Afraid and lonely and that's 
why whoever it is that's going through 
this needs to find a really good support 
group you know whether it's friends or 
family or a group that you don't even 
know if it's just a local kind of you 
know Community if it's a group therapy 
or something at at the local College do 
you're not alone and I think that 
divorce can be isolating make sure you 
find your people as you're going through 
this 100% and like you said earlier you 
know if you're talking about 20 30 40 
years ago really there was so little to 
support us today you have services like 
the things that Laura is doing with it's 
over easy with the candles you have date 
coaches people would have like looked at 
me sideways like what do you do they 
kind of sometimes still do like a dating 
coach is that really a job I'm like it's 
really a job to help people navigate in 
the weeds especially with online dating 
and looking at is this a good person is 
this a real person is this a red flag or 
a green flag and to your point about 
celebrities and the magnification of 
what happens with them going through 
divorce I know many times we get them 
after they're at the end of the divorce 
hunnel just like we get regular people 
that you know want to get out there and 
date again but they have the same fears 
and sometimes greater fears of being 
like wait a second aren't you so in so 
when they get online and I've had 
clients that you and I would know 
walking down the street that will put 
themselves on a dating app and they get 
blocked from an app they get thrown off 
the app or they get really dubious 
people going you're a catfisher aren't 
you because you look just like blah blah 
blah it's like no wait I am blah blah 
blah am blah blah 
blah I mean I know Sharon Stone who was 
not our client was very famously tossed 
off of bumble last year she's like but 
wait I am the real Sharon Stone so if 
you're listening to this thinking okay 
I'm out of divorce I'd really not like 
to do online dating what I will tell you 
is dating like divorce is the Great 
equalizer when you're out there and 
you're and you're maybe saying okay I've 
kind of my setup pipeline has dried up a 
lot of my friends you know even though 
I'm high-profile are like yeah I really 
don't know anybody good to fix you up 
with people are going online and it's 
okay to be online and it's fun and 30 to 
40% of marriages today that take place 
happen because of connections that we 
make online wow isn't that crazy yeah it 
is but it doesn't particularly post 
pandemic or during pandemic it does not 
surprise me I think it makes a lot of 
sense and I think we will probably in 
some ways never go back to where we were 
before simply because of what we've all 
lived through in the past couple of 
years absolutely 100% And I think people 
are so much more comfortable we had 
people fall in love with each other 
doing Zoom dating for a year for four 
months during quarantine because they 
couldn't see each other and then they 
got to know each other it's such a 
granular level like you know Michael 
would it bother you if I ate my last 
meal at 3 pm I'm like wow like you know 
more about each other than ostensively 
people putting together prenups I'm 
joking little but but it kind of went 
back to wartime like writing amazing 
letters to each other and having to 
communicate through video so so yeah 
there's a lot of great stories that 
happened out of quarantine so you know 
are you willing to tell us Lord are you 
single are you dating anyone like kind 
of tell us where you are because you're 
gorgeous and super relatable and you 
know someone we all look up to oh gosh 
well yeah I say this to clients all the 
time they're like well what would you do 
and I'm like don't ask me I'm a hot mess 
single mother of two I'm single right 
now um and I uh I like kind of being 
single but I definitely like dating and 
meeting new people and I i' I'm pretty 
much a Serial monogamous I'm not I don't 
know if you're going to want to hear 
this Bella but I'm not sure that I that 
I believe that human beings Were Meant 
to mate for life so that's why I 
particularly believe in love a second or 
third time around and I and I feel like 
I mean I'm not just out there you know 
dating everybody but I definitely feel 
like you know you I'm I love a great 
experience I love you know I'm like I 
said I'm curious about the world I love 
meeting new people I love getting to 
know people and so and actually in my 
profession I get to know people pretty 
well they don't always get to know me 
super well because they're not paying me 
to get to know me they're paying me to 
get to know them and all so it is kind 
of nice to like be out with somebody and 
you know over a piece of salmon and a 
glass of wine discuss what's interesting 
to me and what makes me happy and what I 
like to do so that's that's fun and like 
I said you really do kind of get to 
recreate yourself as you meet new people 
whether it be online or at a party if 
we're ever allowed to go to parties 
again or you know at a at a function 
School functions I find that there's 
like a lot of different interesting 
people out there to meet whether it's 
somebody that's to to date or just to 
become friendly with absolutely I love 
that and I love that you love to date 
and I love that you know where you stand 
on this right like I don't believe 
people are meant to mate for life and 
you may fall in love two four eight 10 
times during the duration of your life 
and that's fine and as long as you know 
that and the person you're with knows 
that I think it's amazing I love Clarity 
and transparency and where we where we 
match on those things so if do you have 
any kind of musthaves for a person that 
you're going to be with funny they have 
to be funny they have to like have a 
sense of humor and they have to not take 
themselves too seriously going just back 
to one point I definitely like and I say 
this to people a lot better to have 
loved and lost than never to have loved 
at all all getting out there and having 
the relationship I think is the main 
thing as opposed to worrying about how 
it's going to end or if it's going to 
end or am I going to get hurt so I think 
that's really important and I kind of at 
this point put that out there as well in 
terms of clarity like I can't promise 
you that I'm going to be the Perfect 
Mate wife whatever the other thing I 
want to say is there are some people who 
probably were meant to mate for life and 
God bless them I think that's great I 
just don't think that that's the norm 
frankly I think the norm is you got to 
have a couple tries and figure it out 
and you grow and you change and if 
you're lucky enough to be somebody that 
meets somebody and grows and changes and 
evolves with them great but many of us 
end up going and changing in different 
directions which is 
okay no and I and I think that there's a 
lot of value to that you know people 
will ask me you know how many of your 
clients end up getting married I'm like 
you know probably half of them that meet 
somebody get married but the other half 
live together as if I always say we're 
looking for the lid to our pots right 
and and it's no less serious or real 
should you not decide to go through a 
30- minute Church ceremony or whatever 
it is you want to do so I think finding 
the lid to your pot is so important 
whether you choose to get married or not 
it really has virtually no impact and 
people have argued and I would love to 
hear your opinion on this as as a family 
law expert that sometimes when you are 
together to be together let's say like 
uh Goldie hon and Kurt Russell and you 
don't have the concrete blocks or you 
know on you about marriage that you just 
kind of peacefully exist with each other 
because you don't have the fear of what 
if it's well if it doesn't work out 
here's my suitcase here's your suitcase 
well okay but that being said I don't 
feel particularly in that relationship 
that like either of them has one foot 
out the door you have opt in I think 
that for some people having that piece 
of paper that marriage certificate that 
level of security so to speak is super 
important but as I said before if half 
marriages are ending in divorce how 
comfortable do you really feel and so I 
think you know people will come to me 
and they said we've been living together 
for 10 years we've kind of co-mingled 
our money and it's really important to 
him or her that now we get married and I 
said well is it important to you no but 
it's important to me that my my 
significant other is happy so we explore 
that part of me says you know if it 
ain't broken don't fix it both of my 
sons are from relationships with men to 
whom I wasn't married but we lived 
together and we were very very 
monogamous Partners whatever I will tell 
you from personal experience is it's not 
easier to end that kind of a 
relationship if you're not married than 
it would be if you were married you 
still have to divide stuff up you still 
go through the Heartbreak they're still 
legal especially if you have kids so it 
cuts both ways the security of being 
married isn't always so super secure and 
the freedom of not having those blocks 
on you again you have to Define what it 
means to you in your Narrative of what 
marriage means but that's not always the 
thing that makes you feel so super Free 
and Easy in a 
relationship yes you're so right and 
that's a great wind that's a great 
perspective for me to look at as well 
it's okay if you don't have the uh it 
doesn't mean it's necessarily so clean 
cut and dry where you take your suitcase 
and I take my suitcase and we're done 
there could be there's more potential 
things to disentangle yes totally and 
again is it easier because you don't 
have to go through the legal 
ramifications maybe sometimes I've had 
marriages with people that were so not 
co-mingled that it was super easy 
divorce and then I've had breakups with 
people that had been cohabiting for 
years never got married and super 
difficult so it it really does depend on 
the relationship and how it all works 
and again what you bring to the 
relationship in terms of your past and 
your feelings about marriage and 
commitment and and all that stuff oh 
yeah that's amazing and you know I love 
this this question what do freshly 
signed divorce papers actually smell 
like Laura watzer tell us so it was 
really funny because when Johnny who 
candle company this is and he brought a 
bunch over and we were smelling them we 
were coming up with the names for them 
so this one apparently look to me it 
just smells really good but it smells 
like earth wood spice woodsy and sweet 
Pine Balsam and Blossoms fresh it sounds 
freshes and again what I like about it 
is you know and there's a bunch I mean 
the names of them are great there you 
know there's freshly signed divorce 
papers but there's there's one called 
Grudge which is what your people 
before they come to you Bella and are 
ready to get out there again they should 
light that but there is and she lived 
happily ever after alone there's 
gratitude there's one that's called 
smells like a millennial prenup what I 
like about them is you know they're 
they're for your home you have them in 
the background but as you're going up to 
your bathroom to blow dry and apply your 
makeup and get dressed maybe with your 
glass of wine I mean sometimes I'm sure 
you would agree the best part of the 
date is getting ready for the date 
you've got your music on maybe your kids 
are at your ex's for the first time you 
know the first weekend you're on your 
own it almost doesn't even matter where 
you're going or whom with it's that that 
that the getting ready and that whole 
you know everything that you do to get 
ready and the excitement and the 
hopefulness you light your candle smells 
like freshly signed divorce papers you 
have your music on you have your glass 
of wine you're getting ready and that is 
what this next chapter Journey how it 
begins and what it's about and we just 
love that idea I love that so much so we 
have something you know when our clients 
start up with us at Smart dating Academy 
we have them like they know who they're 
looking for they know the red flags but 
one of the most important things to your 
point that we do is we have them come up 
with what we call a dating ritual 
because so many people think you can go 
straight from the date have your you 
know lovely prod suit and your gorgeous 
red bottom heels and go straight from 
work to date but what you're not doing 
is sort of taking the step bench of your 
work day off of you and especially for 
all of us men and women we're 
multifaceted kind of putting inste of 
CEO facet forward kind of spinning it to 
put the facet of you that's like fun 
cool date and how do you get to being 
the fun cool date versus the Ironclad 
divorce attorney or dating coach or 
surgeon or lawyer whatever you are and 
and lighting a candle is something I 
think is a great addition to our clients 
dating ritual I you know one of my 
things for women especially we talk 
about something called the berry lip and 
so we have all of our clients to 
symbolize it's like okay I'm going on a 
date you pop your lip color because a 
lot of the science shows that men what 
are you gonna show us your lipstick I 
love this scary lip I realize that maybe 
it's not quite popping enough yet hold 
on on this Zoom call right now here it 
iser I'm ready where are you come pick 
me up come pick me up put on your Berry 
lip because Reds pinks men will always 
say no I want someone that looks really 
natural that looks great in a T-shirt 
and cut off jeans but what do they look 
at the lip the lip popped lips so Reds 
and pinks so we often when we do dating 
photo shoots in our studio in Chicago 
for people that are out of divorce or 
maybe just coming back into it after a 
bad breakup you come in to do a photo 
shoot cuz it's super fun and it's like 
adorable and you're doing five or feel 
beautiful you feel beautiful 
and and what's lovely is sometimes we 
don't do things for ourselves and invest 
in ourselves and one of the things 
everybody laughs at in our photo shoot 
I'm like pop that lip but I wear a nude 
lip I'm like not today this is our photo 
shoot so you're going to pop this lip 
and they always love the color so I'm 
glad that you're a proponent of the 
berry lip in in the dating routine and 
having a great playlist you guys is so 
important what's on your dating playlist 
when you're getting ready like what I 
don't have a playlist I have different 
like stations so I think when I'm 
getting ready I probably usually listen 
to like the lead zein 
station or if I depending on which date 
it is I I actually like also the Joanie 
Mitchell station oh two great ones right 
I'm thinking of like When the Levy 
Breaks like I can think of good Zeppelin 
tunes that are great this is my Stairway 
to Heaven right now with my very lip 
with my with my bar lip when I'm getting 
ready to go on a date with my husband I 
need to have a dating playlist because I 
do my fun run right from Spotify right 
because I like to run so it's like okay 
let's do the Fun Run The Fun Run dating 
list so Laura you're amazing any last 
bits of Laura waser gems that you can 
leave with the listener to make them 
better to make them more prepared as 
they think about dating or getting 
better in their 
relationships I would definitely say 
like you know one on on this finger I 
have a ring and it says carpedm okay and 
so my two big sayings are this two shall 
pass as you're going through the divorce 
we're going to get through this this is 
going to pass and then carpedm so this 
two Shall Pass hopefully by the time 
they're coming to you Bella and they're 
dating and they're getting back out 
there for the next chapter it's passed 
and now we're in the carpedm seize the 
day enjoy the moment take every dating 
experience for what it's worth this may 
not be the person that you're going to 
spend the rest of your life with but 
what can you take from this meal or hike 
or concert that will make you better and 
happier and you'll take it into whatever 
the next relationship is and have that 
little bit of that day because as we 
have seen over the past couple of years 
things can change in an instant so my 
advice for whatever it's worth is seize 
the day enjoy the moment make the most 
of it for yourself and whomever you're 
with and really be open to experiences 
because that's what this is all about 
one I love that so much and one of the 
things we tell our clients that's so in 
alignment with that is I get to go on 
this 
date not I have to so if you can take 
today and say instead of every time you 
find yourself saying I have to change 
that and say I get to I have two 
teenagers I'm like you get to go to 
school you 
don't you get to go to school your 
education is a privilege getting to go 
on the date means you get to hear 
someone else's story and that story can 
make you better if you let it totally 
agree love it thank you so much for 
being here what a treasure and I know 
how busy you are so thank you for 
bequeathing your knowledge and your gems 
on to me and to you dear listener so um 
thank you so much and I hope you will 
come back to us I will come back enjoy 
your candle um if your listeners want to 
get candles they can come to next 
chapter collection and also check us out 
um on it's over easy.com or Laura waser 
official all of those places we are 
available and um hopefully you will come 
find us and yes I'll definitely come 
back I'd love to you know what and we'll 
put put a link to the next chapter 
candles in the show notes so you guys 
can all buy The Grudge 
gratitude I just wanted to say 
that right smells really good too it 
doesn't smell like what you think it 
smells like no it's very pleasant 
because it ends up feeling very pleasant 
yes exactly absolutely absolutely thank 
you again for have for of 
course 
