[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love welcome back 
smart daters I hope you've had an 
amazing week I know I have the weather's 
great I'm feeling sunny on the outside 
and on the inside and today I want to 
share with you one of my favorite people 
an amazing guest 
her name is Andrea javer she is a 
marketing consultant she's a certified 
dating coach and perhaps more 
importantly she has now become a friend 
because she has been a Smart dating 
Academy client for the last year I can't 
believe time has gone so fast but I 
brought Andrea on here because I know 
that her story will resonate with so 
many of you whether you're walking your 
dog 
you're driving through LA traffic you're 
taking a jog through Lincoln Park in 
Chicago if that's the case I'll see you 
soon um so I know that her story will 
resonate with you and she has agreed to 
tell it and to share it with you and to 
share with you what's worked and what 
wasn't working so Andrea thank you for 
being here I am so excited to be here 
Bella I can't even tell you I I'm 
thrilled I get to tell my story to all 
of your listeners and hopefully it'll be 
inspiring is it's it's really been this 
has been such a wonderful experience in 
my life well let's jump right into your 
life tell us you tell us you you know 
kind of growing up and give us the juice 
people want to know who you are like 
you're from 
Chicago yeah yeah so actually you know I 
grew up in the midwest I grew up in St 
Louis and um you know I have I have two 
wonderful parents my I have two great 
Brothers great family I the oldest of 
the three of us and it's so funny 
because looking back when I was growing 
up I just remember getting so many 
messages about my career it was always 
about Andrea you can do anything you 
want in life that like the sky is the 
limit I I could say I want to be an 
astronaut and my dad would say you could 
do that I mean clearly clearly I can't 
but but Dad thought you could you could 
he thought you hung the moon honestly 
and I mean my parents were so supportive 
when it came to kind of like what are 
you going to do with your life so 
there's there were all these like 
amazing messages about career about like 
you know I remember when I was a kid you 
know growing up in St Louis and we were 
thinking about moving to Chicago when I 
was in Middle School and I remember 
driving on Lakeshore Drive for the first 
time and I remember looking at those 
high-rise condos and I was in the back 
seat and I just remember staring up and 
I said I'm gonna live in one of these 
someday and I remember my mom turned 
around in the car and she goes honey you 
can do that you can do anything you want 
I'm excited for you to live there 
someday right so it was like all these 
messages but I think like you know and 
my and God love my parents like I mean 
they they've done they've done 
everything right in terms of in terms of 
this but I will say I think my parents 
in society in general there I didn't get 
a lot of messages around you are going 
to find a wonderful man someday to make 
you so happy and you will make him so 
happy I just I just didn't get those 
messages that just wasn't part of the 
rhetoric it wasn't part of the dialogue 
in the family it was sort of this like I 
don't know it was just like you're going 
to be great at your career and that was 
sort of the message I took away and and 
maybe I just didn't hear the message but 
it you know so for me it was this like 
you can do anything you can be anything 
but I really wasn't sure what a happy 
healthy successful relationship was 
going to look like you know my parents 
are still married at 46 years you know 
to the like next month it'll be 46 years 
but I mean I guess you know we're just 
like right like you know that we're just 
not taught how to be smart daters or how 
to successfully find a partner no and 
what I find that's so similar with so 
many of my clients whether their parents 
had happy marriages or you know complete 
Discord and Chaos in their relationships 
that as a culture we're not giving our 
kids enough guidance around dating and 
relationships it's like we've become 
very lace aair and like well I don't 
want to interfere I don't want to you 
know they just need to find a person 
that's going to make them happy I don't 
want to push them away and having two 
teenagers I can tell you I'm going 
through that at this moment but it's 
really about you know the messaging 
we're so focused on what do you want to 
be when you grow up and I love that your 
parents said you can be and do anything 
that you want to be and I think that 
it's so curious that we just expect 
our kids and all of us to just have love 
magically appear when we're ready for it 
but to your point I couldn't agree more 
we're not it it it should be an and you 
can be anything you want to be and you 
can find the lid to your pot while 
you're doing that well it's like you can 
do anything you want and have someone in 
your life who is so supportive of you 
and helps you fulfill those dreams like 
you don't need anybody but you can have 
somebody there to support you right like 
it's yeah so I it is the end right and 
and I think I think what was hard for me 
is then you know in my 20s like you know 
I graduated college I I moved I was in 
Milwaukee first school and then I moved 
to Chicago on my own you know my parents 
weren't living here I was like got my 
Lincoln Park apartment you know 600 
square feet with a roommate you know 
like could barely afford to like you 
know buy groceries other than you know 
like Ramen noodles you know so it's was 
like all my disposable income was just 
like going out to the bars on the 
weekends like that totally that's what 
we all did I worked I went out and I 
remember I had a lot I had so much 
anxiety in my early 20s about dating 
because I think in retrospect I didn't 
know what I was looking for I thought I 
would just meet a guy out at like the 
schoolyard Tavern on Southport or 
something insan right like because 
that's where I was all the time and it's 
like no I wasn't really being Discerning 
about the process or any of that and I 
think honestly like as a kid when you're 
not really given a lot of messages about 
what to look for what I look towards is 
you know cheesy romantic comedies and 
Disney movies that I grew up on and so 
you know I met my first husband when I 
was 26 um we yeah so so he and I met 
through so my best friend was dating 
this guy who she eventually got married 
she's still married to him 17 years 
later um but she was dating this guy and 
it my first husband is his cousin oh it 
was like to Ideal it was ideal it was 
like okay so I know him through someone 
I trust he's from a great family you 
know all these things right that were 
just it was like a fairy tale and I'm 
like we're gonna my best friend and I 
are going to be like related you know 
because we're amazing married to cousins 
and it was also this time in life where 
I was you know I was 20 I think I was 28 
when we got engaged and then 29 as we're 
getting married and at that time I mean 
hilariously I can say this now in my 40s 
I'm like I felt like the Clock Was 
ticking I have to have children I mean I 
want to have kids I want to have the 
house and the house in the suburbs and 
all this other stuff and um you know and 
and ironically my career is just going 
great I mean nothing wrong with that 
right like I'm getting promoted every 18 
months I'm climbing the corporate ladder 
doing super well in my career and really 
enjoying what I was doing I you know had 
a marketing career um for the first 20 
years of out out of college and um and 
yeah so this whole relationship and this 
marriage was happening almost as just 
like a default it was like well everyone 
like I want to be married you're the 
person I love you're the person I'm with 
right now and it just we got married and 
honestly Bella as soon as we got married 
it was like we had to look at each other 
and realize we never should have done 
this oh my God it was there were a lot 
of things he wasn't honest about with me 
there were a lot of red flags that I 
didn't see not the least of which which 
was that he never had a lot of ambition 
ever and here's me Miss ambition right 
climing again doing really well in my 
job and then married to this man who 
just was kind of immature didn't really 
have a lot going for him and then it 
just we just didn't have enough to go on 
right and so eight months in we called 
it quits and you know wow from a 
Catholic perspective the guilt the just 
the the fact that it was such a short 
marriage it was so humiliating to me but 
honestly I just thought I don't know how 
I'm ever going to you know get through 
this I don't know how I'm going to ever 
trust that if if if not my best friends 
you know husband's cousin you know 
somebody who you know it's like how am I 
ever going to meet someone and um but 
you know you you move on and I did a lot 
of self-growth I did a lot of therapy at 
the time again I was again you know 
growing in my career I traveled the 
world I had such an amazing job at the 
time I was going to Sydney Australia and 
Istanbul and Madrid and Barcelona and I 
was going to South America I was 
traveling all over the world for my job 
and I felt for years that I was really 
getting to know myself and really 
starting to understand you know who I 
was and what I wanted I did a lot of 
therapy you know this was years and 
years in my early 30s like probably age 
30 to 35 really with self-reflection you 
know I dated a lot like so I was on um I 
think I did match.com for a while I 
think I did Tinder I don't think Bumble 
was around at the time but you know so I 
would go on dates but it was almost like 
as soon as I'd meet somebody that I 
liked I would stop dating anybody else 
and ah okay let's go there yeah and this 
is the part that you teach this is this 
is my Revelation in working with you is 
the piece where we just don't I I think 
we're just not taught to look for the 
red flags or or and or I don't know I 
don't have I didn't have the discipline 
to stop and say like is this I don't 
know like like again with my first 
husband and the lack of a career piece 
it's like well how was that not a 
massive red flag but it's like well he 
loves me and I love him and it's sweet 
and you know but it's like no there 
needs to be a higher standard here and 
I'm sure in retrospect Andre there were 
more red flags than just the lack of 
ambition that usually comes along with 
three or five other pink to yellow flags 
oh eight or 10 really I mean just so 
many things I mean so many things that 
really should have been right in front 
of me and you know here's the thing this 
is and and so like spoiler I've been 
married twice and divorced twice as you 
know but so as in my 30s as I was 
traveling around and doing a lot of 
self-reflection and therapy I thought 
okay I have sort of future proofed 
myself from this now like I have because 
I've done all this therapy I'm not going 
to make the same mistake again but for 
whatever reason I met my second husband 
when I was about I think I was 35 or 
36 and I in he is a he is a clinical 
narcissist so I don't say narcissist 
with like an opinion this is he has been 
clinically diagnosed with sociopathic 
personality disorder bipolar all kinds 
of just all kinds of terrible mental 
health issues and I don't take any of 
that lightly it it it is a it is a 
struggle for him more than anyone in 
this World quite honestly to have to 
live with that but so when I met him he 
has three children you know he had been 
divorced for a couple of years it was 
again it was presented to me like this 
fairy tale and I really do think I think 
I was aware of the fact that like I you 
know I knew that there that he had 
issues right because obviously anybody 
with three kids who's divorced there's a 
lot of baggage and things like that 
stuff yeah like just having deal with 
the ex-wife and you know just things 
like that that well does he have good 
boundaries does he you know how is his 
financial situation with all the child 
support and alimony and stuff he has to 
pay like how how does that all work and 
I think the entire time we were together 
and by the way we didn't date that long 
before getting engaged and married so 
this is the other big problem I I tell 
us about that tell us about that from 
the time you met how fast did it go were 
you love bombed like let's kind of go to 
the red flags and that because what I 
find so fascinating and you dear 
listeners so many people come to us 
saying oh I you know I've done a lot of 
therapy I'm ready for dating and I think 
listen to what Andrea is telling you she 
did five years of 
introspective deep weekly therapy and 
what happens regression to the mean you 
go back to doing the same thing you did 
before and we'll get more into that so 
tell us how did it open up in the 
beginning what got you in a good way 
yeah so I think so we met in April of 
2015 we were engaged in March of 
2016 okay and we were married in October 
of 2016 so literally within a year and a 
half of meeting we were married so that 
so this is a Hu this this is the biggest 
regret I have was how quickly this went 
because I think if I would have been 
much more careful about the courting 
process none of this would have happened 
so we met in April of 15 we met on 
Tinder we talked back and forth for a 
couple of days we went on our first date 
had a wonderful time just you know a lot 
of chemistry a lot of just intellectual 
and social conversation you know all 
that was great and you know getting to 
know him it was almost as though when I 
look back at it I think with his 
personality disorder I think and and 
he's really smart right he's like left 
brain right brain he can speak on a 
stage but he also is super smart with 
numbers and programming and things like 
that I think he was always a step ahead 
of me it was almost like he listened for 
the things that I was looking for and 
served those up on a silver platter to 
me absolutely I was duped from the very 
beginning completely hookline and sinker 
he knew I wanted a family he knew I was 
anxious about getting older right so I 
was in my mid-30s I'm like I want to 
have children he had three beautiful 
children the things that he dangled were 
things like well you know I'm so 
protective of my kids you know I'm such 
a loving father I want to go to a child 
psychologist before you meet them let's 
do it the right way 
so we did that right like we I mean 
which I I thought was great I'm like oh 
gosh she's so careful about it yeah 
little did I know until way after we 
were divorced his ex-wife told me he 
never even wanted to see the kids like 
he she had to beg him to be with them 
this was all a show for me right this 
was a show because he met a woman who 
wanted to have kids and so he you know 
and and I think he struggled with he I 
think he still struggles with that back 
and forth trying to figure out how to 
make his kids a really meaningful part 
of his life it's very it's and again 
it's the mental it's the mental illness 
piece that's really hard but oh my gosh 
that's unbelievable so for those of you 
that heard the episode from a couple of 
episodes ago on love bombing versus love 
seeking love bombing is what happened 
here to Andrea if he listened for the 
things that motivated her the things 
that she wanted and then doled them up 
fraudulently on on a silver platter 
right and so this is where dating slowly 
and knowing what the red flags are and 
understanding those and asking the right 
questions and pushing back can really 
help you and if you haven't heard that 
please listen to love bombing versus 
love seeking because there are questions 
that you can ask that can really get to 
the bottom of is this a good person or a 
bad person is this a romantic or is this 
a person that's trying to dupe me as you 
so eloquently said well and I'll tell 
you I think he needed me more than he 
wanted to be with me and I think that 
was because he he needed to portray this 
image of you know he's gonna have a new 
wife and he needed me to help take care 
of his kids you know like all of that 
you know is just it was love bombing and 
I didn't know what that was I wish I 
would have heard that episode before 
before any of this happened years and 
years ago um but yeah I think so I think 
like the root cause underneath all of 
these all of these issues with my ex my 
both ex-husbands was really the falling 
in so quickly falling into oh thank God 
I've met someone I can stop dating I can 
stop I can take myself off Tinder 
because I've met someone it was almost 
this like I think as a person and and 
again I you know I I would love to talk 
about the attachment styles that you 
teach because that's something I was 
completely unaware of that I was an 
anxious attacher and like being an 
anxious attacher you end up I ended up 
missing red flags because I couldn't 
slow down because my anxiety kicked in 
and then it was like oh gosh like I 
would have never ever back in 2015 when 
I met my my second ex-husband I never 
would have ever taken it so slowly or 
dated multiple people or followed the 
advice of Smart dating Academy because 
it was counterintuitive I'm like well 
I'm a one woman at a time or one man at 
a time kind of woman I don't want to 
date multiple people like I so I didn't 
really understand the concept that 
you're not intimate with multiple people 
at the same time you're you're dating 
you're getting to know multiple people 
at the same time and that's just 
something I think a lot of people have 
have said oh well I don't I don't date 
like that and I want to say well yeah 
that's the problem right like that's 
problem that's where you're missing the 
red flags especially if you're an 
anxious attacher well and to that point 
remember it's about when you're an 
anxious attacher right the thing you 
want the most is certainty 
right and we want to jump out of the 
game get off of Tinder on the third date 
because we want nothing more than to 
cling to this hope that this is 
certainly the right person for me and 
all I can tell you is there's Great 
Value in sitting in that uncertainty in 
sitting in that dating funnel in sitting 
in that he's got to earn me right this 
isn't me Clinging On to certainty it's 
like Oho that's a big dark red dark kind 
of red flag filled alley right now and 
being number one willing to acknowledge 
that yeah oh my God I am an anxious 
attacher even though by the books my 
parents are in a happy marriage I should 
be securely attached there's no shoulds 
in this process We Are Who We Are for a 
100,000 reasons right so knowing that 
you're anxious and being able to sit in 
the uncertain 
of slow dating is I know something that 
you learned later in the game with us 
but we can come back to your your second 
marriage and close any Loops you want so 
that went fast yeah I mean it was just I 
think it was so fast and it was so 
devastating because children were 
involved who loved me and who I mean 
still love me and I still love them and 
we've we it's it's wonderful because we 
still have a relationship but I will say 
I regret so much how quickly that went 
and I got so swept up once again in this 
fairy tale and so if you can imagine you 
know when I met you years later so I'm 
divorced in 2018 I mean again this was 
all very fast so divorced in 2018 trying 
to pick up the pieces of my life and 
really giving myself a lot of time 
before actually trying to get into a 
long-term serious relationship so when I 
met you and I guess it was 2021 right it 
was last year I think we were introduced 
I think think you said it was like the 
the universe was pointing you in this 
direction you're like I don't remember 
we have a one common friend and then 10 
others it seemed like that were pointing 
you like hey you need to do this yeah 
exactly so it was like it was just when 
when I met you I had just you know I had 
dated someone after my divorce just you 
know for just a little over a year 
loving relationship just not a long-term 
one amole breakup all that good stuff 
and I when I met you I just remember 
thinking gosh do I really have the 
energy or the confidence or the the 
trust in the world to try to do this 
again and I thought you know what this 
is such a different approach than 
therapy and I believe in therapy of 
course but like this is such a different 
approach you guys are Specialists and 
helping people find that good husband 
quality in someone and so what I found 
really interesting when we first started 
working together is just from the very 
beginning like the things that were 
really different to me I'm like wait a 
second I'm going to put professional 
photos on my profile I never would have 
thought of that there I've like cropped 
pictures and pictures with like me and 
my friends and whatever I don't know 
like just like R and it's like well no 
wait a second let's be like what I loved 
about it was the photos in the profile 
were so 
deliberately giving me self-confidence 
that oh my gosh I'm presenting myself in 
a way that it's not just like oh I'll 
take what I can get I just hope to meet 
people it was like no no no we are 
positioning you onm 
match.com as someone who was going like 
you were going to attract in so many 
people and it's true the whole 
experience I felt like I was truly 
repositioned in the online world but 
also I think it was because the process 
repositioned my internal confidence and 
so many I mean I the girls I like a lot 
of girls I work with in their 30s are 
like you know the single ones they're 
like oh I'll just take what I can get or 
oh there's just not great guys out there 
and I'm sitting here thinking if like 
flip that script right like you've got 
to be super positive about it you've got 
to be I think you call it um I call it 
belligerent optimism but you call it 
something else psychotic optimism 
psychotic optimism right like having 
that psychotic optimism I think was 
probably my biggest asset in the process 
with you because I'm very extroverted 
I'm able to meet people very easily in 
real life but then in the online world 
it was like well I have to be really 
really optimistic that there are still 
great guys out there even in their 40s 
right or 50s like whatever like that in 
my age range that there will be great 
great men out there to me and what I 
love so much is that even after two 
divorces right and you in the process 
before you even met us had become a 
certified dating coach right in addition 
certified divorce coach sorry certified 
dating coach certified divorce coach and 
and a marketing specialist and the fact 
that you could see immediate mediately 
you know the value of having a new fun 
set of photographs right and how the 
marketing in cyberspace brought you so 
many better prospects ultimately right 
people are like oh my God is my dating 
funnel like talk about what happened in 
your funnel month one yeah oh my God 
month one was so fun I mean last summer 
Bella was probably the most fun I've had 
dating ever Bar None I mean oh so it was 
like you know launching the Prof I mean 
doing the photo shoot was really fun 
because as you said so I have 20 years 
of a corporate marketing career very 
traditional very much working for big 
companies and after my second divorce I 
needed time I needed to heal and and I 
totally as you know repositioned became 
a certified divorce coach I still work 
with women one-on-one it's a wonderfully 
rewarding U part of my life and part of 
my job I still do love marketing and 
I've started to do more marketing again 
um after you know two and a half years 
of doing the coaching exclusively but 
the the point of all that is I got 
comfortable with doing photo shoots 
because I needed to do a photo shoot for 
my business when I was doing coaching 
I'm like well I need a website I need to 
get I know I hired a stylist I I got 
professional photos so working with you 
to do the the photos was not a big step 
for me it was like okay this is kind of 
fun that we're we're doing this process 
um but I would say in the beginning I 
couldn't believe that just like f like 
setting up a new email address to launch 
myself on Match putting the profile up 
there in the way that you helped me 
write it so positive so many good 
nuggets that anyone any guy on there 
could pick out and start a conversation 
I I I never and I'm really lucky because 
I I met someone early on in the process 
relatively speaking but I never had to 
reach out you know what I mean I just I 
put the profile up there I had so many 
wonderful messages and lots of you know 
creepy messages but that's okay like you 
know so it was like the experience to me 
I felt that was also different and and 
actually this is a big thing that I've 
I've actually since told a lot of people 
who are who are in the online dating 
world I said be really strict with how 
much time you're willing to put into 
this every day you want to take it 
seriously and put energy into it but 
what I learned from Bella is that it it 
was 15 minutes in the morning 15 minutes 
in the evening notifications off so I 
can't tell you I I would have never 
turned notifications off because you 
want to see when somebody's messaging 
you but it's like that ends up it ends 
up taking up a lot of time and I think 
what happens is for me anyway I stopped 
living my life like separate from the 
day it was almost like the dating piece 
of it like sort of overtakes your 
workday it overtakes your evening it 
overtakes kind of everything that's 
going on in your life it would inter you 
know I'd see a notification back in the 
day right like in my 30s I'd see a 
notification from Tinder while I was out 
with girlfriends and it it's distracting 
so it's like having that boundary around 
when you're going to engage so I was 
very good at following that rule I'd go 
on in the morning I'd go on in the 
evening I'd respond to my messages I 
think for the first month I honestly had 
either it was and you guys had told me 
this is a lot you've got you're doing a 
lot very quickly but this is just my 
personality I think I had at least two 
physical dates a week and at least one 
video date per week and I kind of had to 
space them out even more because it was 
getting so overwhelming with my schedule 
but had so many wonderful people in the 
funnel and then sometimes not sometimes 
you have a phone call with someone and 
it's like oh wow no there's just no 
chemistry here let's not go out and 
that's okay and you guys gave me scripts 
every single time to help me have good 
conversation to be really respectful of 
the men who are out there you know when 
you wanted to say no you do it in a kind 
way so I had a blast in the beginning 
and you did and what I want to highlight 
here is something Andrea said that makes 
the difference with so many people that 
we work with it is the mindset piece it 
is the psychotic optimism piece it's 
okay today there might not be anybody 
great in my inbox but I know they're 
coming and having fun with this and 
really not dating from that place of 
scarcity from that fact that all men 
suck nobody likes me I'm not attractive 
enough right that's where we see you 
know that's where it gets harder for 
certain people to continue the dating 
process but it's really approaching it 
with that all right I've got this today 
might not be it but all I have to do is 
date like hell until I find this person 
and have fun and looking at dating as 
something that you put into your daily 
life and I the way I see you is what I 
loved about you is you looked at dating 
in a sense in this new way as a 
privilege which made you so positive 
it's like oh my God I get to do this I 
get to go out on these dates and this 
mindset shift guys if you're listening 
to this this is the key piece right you 
can have the great photos you can have 
the great profile you can do the 15 
minutes in the morning in the evening 
but unless you're really feeling in your 
core happy good and positive about the 
process it becomes hard to continue to 
muster the stamina to do this in a way 
and to also put that positive energy out 
there on your dates and you were killing 
it on your dates it was so much fun it 
was like the summer of Andrea I mean I 
just I had I did I had such a good time 
and you know there were there were 
definitely bad dates mixed in but with 
mostly good dates like mostly really 
interesting people that I met that I 
went out with a lot of First Dates I 
would say I only had a handful of second 
dates but it all felt like a good part 
of the process and um and I met Jason 
pretty early you know pretty early in 
the whole process with you and working 
with you and I think that was wonderful 
I think it was great that I met him but 
you know what given my anxious 
personality style the first few weeks 
were actually not hard it wasn't hard to 
follow the rules right the rules of you 
go out once you know you wait a week to 
go out again there's you know you you 
sort of pace it out really slowly keep 
your funnel going keep the funnel keep 
talking to other people that was 
actually pretty easy we had a wonderful 
first date I mean so much fun just great 
time great conversation and I really I 
was hoping I'm like I want him I want to 
see him again I hope he follows up and 
sure enough he did I mean that night I 
think we ended up texting back and forth 
about how much fun we was like we wanted 
to keep talking but it was like you know 
I didn't obsess over it like we we went 
out a week later maybe I think it was 
like eight days later so we went out the 
next week later in the week and it was 
like I but I I wasn't stressing about it 
because I probably had a date in between 
I was certainly talking to other people 
in between and it wasn't this 
anxiety now I will say about I think it 
was so funny I this is so funny I 
remember I was up at a lakeh house with 
some girlfriends for the week um just we 
were just kind of working there for the 
week and just kind of having fun and you 
know sitting outside and stuff and this 
this this had to event I'll tell you 
exactly how far it was into meeting him 
so we've been going out a little while 
and I had a call with Lindsay on your 
team and I'm like Lindsay I just I like 
him so much I just I don't want to go 
out with anyone else like I just need to 
be done and she goes okay put me on 
speaker phone and open open your 
calendar I'm like why she's like open 
the calendar she goes um look at the 
calendar when was your first date with 
him I'm like July 14th she goes it has 
been 16 days since you've known this man 
you are not going to be exclusive with 
someone that you have met 16 days ago 
and I was like what like you know i' 
that's that was the moment it was really 
hard for me and my anxiety was flaring 
up because I was worried I'm like well 
what if if I keep if I'm wasting time 
with these other people and you know 
what if he finds out I'm dating other 
people and oh my God like we didn't even 
have an exclusivity talk by the way it 
wasn't I wasn't doing anything wrong I 
you know what I mean I was just going 
out but getting through that week with 
with Lindsay and with your team it was 
so helpful to me to lean like you said 
to lean into that anxiety and to just 
confront it because I think from that 
point on I felt less and less anxious as 
time went on and so Jason and I 
continued dating I think we dated for 
about two and a half months before 
finally and and by the way everybody I 
went out with in that time every other 
first date that I had only solidified 
how much I I really liked Jason and I 
had good a good time I had a good time 
not like I didn't have it wasn't you 
know weekly bad dates it was just in 
those two and a half months I think what 
I needed to do was really have the time 
to get to know him without being 
physically involved without being 
exclusive with just going out and having 
a good time and getting to know him and 
getting to know his world as much as I 
could right and then we had that you 
know exclusivity talk and you know I I 
brought it up you guys helped coach me 
on it and it was a it was a hilarious 
night of of Foles that happened we were 
sitting outside on the river in Chicago 
at one of those really beautiful 
restaurants and I was really nervous to 
have this conversation and I was wearing 
this silk really pretty summertime silk 
dress and um the zipper like busted on 
the so like the zipper came off the 
track and I had a jacket on but I was 
hot because I was nervous I'm like oh my 
God my palms are sweaty and I had to 
like go in the bathroom and try to fix 
the zipper and then like I was taking 
the dress all the way off this girl was 
helping me it was hilarious but I I came 
back to the table and I I I I forget 
exactly what I said but it was basically 
like so are we in a relationship kind of 
thing and he looked at me like I was 
insane and he was like of course we are 
you know and it was this whole like you 
know rehearsing the drama but um after 
the broken zipper after the broken 
zipper and then I of course told him I 
he knows all about Smart dating academy 
and of course I've told him all of this 
since you know this this is last year 
but um he just he thinks the whole 
thing's funny he goes Andre I didn't go 
out with anybody after we met he's like 
I was you know he's like no I was really 
really into you and you know he goes I I 
would have waited I would have waited 
six months if you needed to I would have 
waited even longer for you to be ready 
because you're just so wonderful and um 
yeah I I say about Jason um to to women 
who think oh there's no great guys out 
there anymore no Jason is he's he's 45 
he'll be 46 this Saturday he is what I 
call Old School normal like he is from a 
wonderful family he is a good guy he 
says what he means he doesn't do 
anything he doesn't want to do he's not 
pressured into things he he's just a 
normal good person there's no 
he doesn't put on errors he's not you 
know he's just like an really easy guy 
to be with and he's very respectful and 
I oh God sorry no no and I've looked for 
the red flags as you know I mean there's 
been like well could this be something 
could because a lot of paranoia right 
for me based on my experience and I can 
say I mean I'm so incredibly happy with 
him and like I never ever would have met 
him had it not been for Smart dating 
Academy first of all I wouldn't have 
gone on Match wouldn't have thought that 
there'd be a difference of like paying 
for a service versus just doing Bumble 
or something for free not that you can't 
meet a great person I I had great dates 
from Bumble too um but I I just I think 
I was able to attract in someone who is 
so good for me because I was so positive 
psychotically optimistic about the 
process and believed that he was out 
there and he is absolutely and now just 
as one of Andrea's two dating coaches 
Lindsay and I coached her together I 
know you know and she's so lovely and 
cute and you can hear it in her voice 
pulling the rins back and slowing this 
down is no easy feat for dating coaches 
right like Lindsay said you have known 
him for 16 days right and continuously 
week over week for us it's helping 
people to say I know you like him better 
or her better but here's why we're going 
continue to hedge and to date other 
people because everybody's great when 
the sun shines in the dating process but 
suddenly there's no substitute for time 
right when a storm cloud rolls in and 
something goes sideways and there's a 
misunderstanding or a misinterpretation 
how does that person react and what 
we're doing is slowing our horses down 
we have lots of alpha successful people 
like Andrea but it's really kind of 
saying okay let's just hold rain it in 
and make sure that we're looking for all 
of the things and Jason she said is old 
school normal what he also is is what we 
call High GHQ high and good husband 
qualities and working through our system 
we know exactly for each client who 
their particular High GHQ guy is and 
this is a real Touchstone for us to come 
back to does he have all of the 
qualities 
that you have on your marriage map 
contract on your elevator people list 
and we'll get there in a minute and then 
does he have red flags and so this is 
how we navigate through the process 
which I know when you're seeking 
certainty and we're anxious isn't always 
what you want to hear from us no my gosh 
it was ter it was so it was torture at 
the time it was really difficult for you 
guys to say to me you've known him 16 
days Andrew you've known him 20 days 
you've known him 25 days I mean there 
but I will say it's because most people 
don't date like that most people don't 
date slow and you guys kept telling me 
things that were so logical right like 
90 days is not that long of a time to 
wait to date multiple people in the 
scheme of your life but in the moment 
it's it's logical but in the moment it's 
really difficult to follow that advice 
because of all the feelings you're 
feeling so I think that the I I think 
that the dating coaching was like the 
necessary almost like intervention or 
like the kind of therapy I needed for 
myself because again I don't think I 
could have done it on my own even with 
the knowledge even with the knowledge of 
saying okay this is going to give you a 
better result just slow it down even 
having been married to a clinical you 
know sociopath narcissist and people 
come in so often you know and maybe you 
felt the same like I know the signs of a 
narcissist I was married to one and 
ultimately but what the pull is it's to 
do that all over again because with 
regard to knowledge is one thing right 
people say knowledge is power I beg to 
differ execution is power doing the 
right thing even when it's hard to get 
the right thing done that's where you 
step into your power and you stepped 
into your power as you started to do 
things right sometimes it's hard you're 
sitting in the uncertainty sometimes 
begrudgingly like why can't we just be 
exclusive at the eighth date we're like 
because you're not ready yet the 
relationship isn't ready and it's not 
necessarily that you're not ready but we 
need to observe the dynamic between the 
two of you but I can tell you as Lindsay 
and I would weakly concur we're like 
this Jason guy looks pretty good we've 
got a few more weeks but let's make sure 
that he keeps he keeps ticking things 
off so tell us now you guys 
met la like 
summer uh mid July we met mid July of 
last year so yeah we've been it's uh 
yeah it's coming up on a year and I I 
mean my Revelation on elevator people 
has been I mean Jason is to a te the ele 
I mean when you explain elevator people 
in your Ted Talk that I came to listen 
to in Chicago live which was such a 
privilege and when you talked about that 
in the coaching he is the epitome right 
so when I have uncertainty about my 
career well you know because I'm a mar 
I'm I've got corporate marketing I've 
got coaching I don't know what I'm doing 
next I've got lots of options and you 
know he sits there and says to me Andrea 
don't stress about this one thing going 
on right now he's like you are so 
talented the right people will find you 
right like I mean just to have somebody 
who really understands me who really 
listens to me he he just he knows me so 
well and cares about me so much I have a 
very cute story on New Year's Eve um 
Jason and I were out you know it's our 
first New Year it's first holiday season 
together we had met each other's 
families which was amazing and just it 
was just wonderful F and New Year's Eve 
I was the designated driver so we had 
gone out to dinner and we drove out to 
the suburbs where his friend works we 
went to dinner and then we drove back to 
the city kind of at like it was like 
11:30 at night so it's almost midnight 
we went to the bar in my neighborhood 
and he you know he'd had a few drinks 
and you know we had said we loved each 
other before but it was it was really 
sweet right before 
midnight I said um he said I love you 
and I said I love you too and he said no 
no no no no you don't understand how 
much I love you and how much you mean to 
me and it just was this like wonderful 
moment of this no no no you don't 
understand and I thought oh my gosh I've 
never had somebody who's so emotive and 
who's so just authentic with his 
feelings he's you know not afraid to 
express himself and he's so supportive 
of me so you know I mean for me it's 
like my messages for all of your 
listeners is just don't give up and 
don't ever feel like you're not going to 
meet a Wonder ful person out there for 
you keep your standards High be 
confident in what you're putting out 
there I mean that it it's out there for 
you even if you've been divorced twice 
like me even if you've been divorced 
three times four times I don't care no 
matter what you've been through there's 
always an opportunity to really shift 
that complete confidence in yourself and 
to put yourself out there in a new way 
that's going to attract a different 
result oh I have Goosebumps like I I WR 
like no you don't understand how much I 
love you like I really love you and how 
different this does this relationship 
feel than any of your previous ones well 
it just feels so authentic and again 
it's like with the with people who have 
been with narcissists I think what you 
have to remember is that the narcissist 
needs you to fulfill something in his or 
her life the authentic old school normal 
guy just wants you in his life or her 
life because that's just they're they're 
just you know it's just it's this 
difference I felt like I was you know 
with my exes like I had to fulfill some 
kind of fantasy which by the way they 
were doing the same for me so it's like 
when you're truly happy and you're 
putting yourself out there and you just 
want somebody to be with you and to 
share your life with you that's when it 
all comes together that's what's really 
different oh I love that and what would 
you say to someone who doesn't think it 
can happen for them whether they are 
doing it on their own they're working 
with Smart dating Academy they're you 
know they're just coming out a divorce 
what advice would you give any man and 
woman about finding love I I think you 
have to tap into the most optimistic 
part of yourself and even if you said 
well I've tried that mental strategy 
before to be optimistic and it didn't 
work try it again reflect right I don't 
care if you I I'm a big as a coach 
obviously I'm a big believer in like 
mantras and you know doing things 
repeatedly write down on a Post-It every 
single morning I will meet a quality 
person in my life and put it on your 
nightstand and when you wake up in the 
morning read it out loud to yourself and 
when you go to bed at night read it out 
loud to yourself whatever that Mantra is 
what like whatever you have to do to 
start believing that it is out there for 
you that's when you're going to attract 
it in is when you really believe it and 
you really stay positive with yourself 
and like I said for you my friend you 
came in and Lindsay and I could feel 
your psychotic optimism which led to you 
having so much fun which led to you 
finding love and frankly there's a 
there's a component of the universe that 
just says this was your time for Jason 
to enter your life and you guys he is 
cute as a freaking button they're 
adorable as a couple and Andrea thank 
you so much for sharing your wisdom with 
us and for sharing your inspiration with 
our listeners so I'm so excited and I 
have the privilege of calling you a 
client but more importantly my friend so 
and I can't wait to do a double date 
with you and Jason oh likewise well 
thank you for having me on the show this 
has been wonderful to talk about my 
story so and thank you for all you've 
done for me in the past year oh my gosh 
you're the best 
