[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back to this week's 
episode of the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I hope you've been enjoying all 
of our content we have today we've 
talked about dating in a lot of 
different ages right but there's one 
particular age group also that we work 
with a lot and we hadn't addressed and I 
think it's a very large group of people 
and it's dating when you're in your 30s 
and you're professional and you're 
successful and you're now realizing wow 
I think I'd like to find the lid to my 
pot I think I'd like to maybe get 
married I think I'd maybe like to have 
kids so I am bringing you this week's 
Love Story which is a wonderful 
former client who is now engaged spoiler 
alert and I'd like to call her a very 
good friend as well I'm happy to have my 
good friend Nikki who is planning her 
wedding Nikki thank you for joining us 
thank you for having me it's great to be 
here very exciting time oh my gosh so 
how is wedding planning going 
it's going yeah that sounds about right 
we're getting there but it's a lot of a 
lot of pieces to pull together so I'll 
be excited when we've made a few more 
decisions have that date but it's fun 
it's very fun yeah oh my gosh well can 
you ever imagine yourself five years ago 
being in this place right now let's kind 
of go back let's let's let's reminisce a 
little so you dear listener know 
um how Nikki how did we meet 
so I feel like the first time we met I 
always think at least I mean that all 
kind of runs together but I think it was 
at a holiday party 
with work and you were the plus one 
because I actually worked with Andy okay 
yeah I remember you shared what you did 
for work and I just glued myself to you 
for the rest of the party because I was 
very much I was probably in my early 
mid-20s at the time was doing everything 
Chicago had to offer when it came to 
dating and so when you said that you 
were a coach in that space I was 
fascinated and and obviously we totally 
hit it off and you're just such a ray of 
light as well so yeah I think it was at 
a holiday party back probably around 
2008 2009 something like that wow okay 
and so if right you're right it was 2008 
2009 well probably a little bit after 
that I started in 2009 so yeah let's say 
it was more than tennis years ago so 
between the time that we met kind of 
take us through you know what your life 
looked like as a city girl dating what 
was going well what wasn't like you know 
just kind of give us the background 
yeah 
so Chicago in my 20s was in many ways 
you know the best time 
um I had really you know great jobs at 
the time I was really focused on careers 
so I was you know sort of often thinking 
about life through that lens so I was 
doing cool things for work 
um you know had come out of undergrad 
was kind of before grad school at that 
point so just really heads down and 
doing interesting things that I really 
loved I had a great group of girlfriends 
uh who I'm still close with today in a 
lot of cases and so you know we were 
just taking advantage of everything the 
city had to offer traveling all the time 
you know I think they probably would 
have put a limit on how often we were 
going to Nashville if they could have at 
some point 
it was the time to be alive uh and you 
know we all were trying to date I think 
as well but I you know emphasized the 
word trying because it just was not I 
think we all sometimes we've reflected 
on it since you know we loved being a 
group and we sort of had our 
relationship as a reference point you 
know girlfriend relationship and so it 
would talk a lot about these dates and 
it was like if it wasn't you know the 
most amazing most fun you know could be 
hanging out with each other for you know 
a night right then there was a lot of 
pressure to 
think about whether or not you wanted to 
keep pursuing it so I think we're you 
know trying to date but probably didn't 
have the right tools and then not 
prioritizing it I think in hindsight as 
much as you know work or the fun things 
we were doing together so it was 
definitely a good time of life but 
um as much as I thought I wanted to be 
in a relationship I'm not sure I was 
really putting you know putting that 
front of mind or putting the effort in 
as much as I could have been well I love 
what you're saying that it's like dating 
sort of fits in around activities with 
friends and work as priorities in school 
and then when you do go out on a date 
you want to feel that oh my God 
overwhelming chemistry overwhelming 
fireworks otherwise it's like meh back 
to the pond 
yeah and obviously you know you you want 
to feel something but yeah I think what 
what that something should feel like and 
probably also was influenced a lot by 
you know I was more I hadn't dated a ton 
at that point like real relationships so 
it was a lot of like the rom-com times 
of my you know Middle School years that 
probably also were influencing you know 
what you expected and so yeah it was I 
think the little bit of misaligned in 
terms of what was what would be 
realistic for a first or second date 
well I always say that right it's like 
so many people come to us and you're you 
know lucky that you figured this out at 
such a young age but sometimes in our 
40s 50s 60s even it's like we're 
expecting that whoosh and if we don't 
feel that excitement right away on the 
first date we're very ready to throw 
someone back to the pond right because 
that's what social media that's what 
Hollywood rom-coms right and that's what 
our single friends tell us like Ugh if 
you're not feeling anything forget about 
it because let's see who else you know 
was in my inbox this morning and that's 
so often not the right decision but 
we'll come back to that in a little bit 
so if this resonates with you and if 
your picker is broken I'll just tell you 
don't worry it's not your fault almost 
everybody's picker is broken and it 
requires a little bit of introspection 
maybe right having a coach or somebody 
walk you through this process to become 
more conscious of what it is you want so 
what are the other things that that you 
were doing I love how you talked about 
some vintage dating Concepts what were 
you doing during this time I mean I 
definitely you know I feel like I was 
doing everything like it was sort of 
this Obsession or at least everything in 
a category of things which was like the 
the pool you know like where can I find 
people I feel like we back in the day 
had talked about 
um like when we were starting you know 
the coaching engagement the like meeting 
people in real life and occasionally 
again with the girlfriends we'd you know 
get that going but more often than not 
all the dating apps were starting to 
come out around that time 
um I guess like truly apps were still 
new the websites were like where I sort 
of started that dating career and so it 
was like you know originally match and I 
remember like writing long messages to 
people like you know dear so so and so 
and then like signing it you know like 
you're actually emailing like a letter 
back and forth like a letter yeah and 
then there was um something this website 
called how about we I don't know if you 
remember this but it was like I do I 
know the founder of how about we dude 
like I actually liked that one it was 
like date concept so you know that kind 
of take all the back and forth of the 
planning like oh we should meet up what 
do you like to do I don't know what do 
you want to you know it was like Hey do 
you I think it was like hey do you want 
to go do this thing you know on this 
date like go away yeah how about we take 
trapeze lessons together right and if 
you're up for a a meet-up like that 
let's do it together so I do I like that 
because it takes a lot of the pressure 
off of dating but there is no more how 
about we no no that one that was one of 
the good ones to me but then like match 
had events so I remember going to you 
know it wasn't really speed dating I 
think it was more like singles events I 
definitely did speed dating I did 
Catholic speed dating I did match making 
you know whatever you did you did 
matchmaking also I don't know that I 
knew that about unique not not very long 
but you know one of those or I think it 
was matchmaking or something where it's 
like you know they have a list of 
clients there was a specific uh 
Champagne Bar that you would go to and 
you know meet up with people so yeah you 
name it like Okay Cupid was a was a big 
one there's not as much story around 
that but you know it's funny how much 
that's changed because I think I 
probably spent two or three years on 
those types of sites before the you know 
bumbles and hinges and coffee meets 
bagels and tinders came around 
but yeah I was I was everywhere anything 
that you know seemed like again thinking 
about like ways I was sort of not 
investing correctly like that seemed 
like I was putting a lot in but it was a 
lot of the same like more places to find 
profiles you know or right candidates 
right right right and all the while so 
you and I had already met we met at a 
cocktail party and then years go by and 
you're doing all of these cool things 
and then at a certain point 
I always say life gives us an inflection 
point right it's like that moment in 
time where things change what made you 
kind of sit back and go okay I think 
it's time to do this I think it's time 
to change things up because you would 
tried matchmaking you had tried speed 
dating events the apps meeting people in 
real life taking trapeze lessons how 
about we so what was that moment where 
you're like okay and how old were you 
ish 
well it's funny because I think 
you know there was a moment but there 
were also a few other sort of big chunks 
in there 
um one of and this is hilarious you'll 
this is another thing you'll probably 
say you didn't know and it's not totally 
true but I went to grad school somewhere 
in the middle and I had known people 
actually again from the co-workers that 
we knew in common you know people that 
had met people at business school so 
part of me was also like oh business 
school like that'll be that'll be that 
the chance you know like I should go to 
business school to meet someone I went 
to business school for my career but 
like in the back of my mind I thought 
you know maybe that would would also be 
a way to you know a bunch of people from 
all over the place somewhat like-minded 
your MBA would turn into an MRS essay 
yeah I would say that too aloud uh but 
that didn't happen and then I moved to 
LA 
and I think it was you know just a lot 
of change initially and a lot to sort of 
get 
um settled into and so there was just a 
period where I like I was still dating 
technical but I was even further almost 
from being ready because I was just you 
know adjusting to all these new 
variables post-grad school being back at 
work different industry entirely 
different city you know meeting new 
friends and so I think finally it's 
funny because it was like the end of 
2019 which we all know you know that 
that timing was important for a 
different reason but end of 2019 not 
knowing a pandemic was coming the next 
year 
um I just I think I finally sort of had 
settled into my life here and you know 
when you look back on as I would say 
like as somebody who's very achievement 
oriented to look back on whatever that 
was then almost you know 10 years of 
trying to date probably from about 24 to 
34 with really nothing to show for it I 
was like okay this like if this was 
anything else in my professional life I 
would seek outside counsel because a 
10-year track record with no results is 
that not really uh I probably wouldn't 
still have that job you know if that was 
a job 
I think it was just like it had been 
long enough and I was you know getting 
older like obviously you think you're 
thinking about timelines for kids and 
stuff right like it was just like yeah 
something has to change because clearly 
I'm not succeeding at this on my own 
right right right so you engaged Us in 
2019 pre-covered is that right yeah yeah 
that's so amazing that it's been you 
know three-ish years almost exactly and 
and so you fly to Chicago 
and you start this process tell us a 
little bit about you know about what 
that started for you 
yeah I mean I think uh and I've told you 
know many people or I've reflected this 
back to different people over the years 
since so there's a few kind of lessons 
when I really think back on it that are 
changes that I think came out of working 
with you and with Lindsay and with the 
process 
um because I did need to sort of shift a 
few there are a few big things about how 
I was trying to date and what I was 
expecting from dating that I think 
weren't quite working so 
one of the big learnings for me was 
um I was very you know and I think I've 
been I mentioned a couple times that 
like professionally I work in business 
you know at some point in the LA job 
actually I was very much building a team 
used to like you know reviewing the 
resume and trying to figure out okay 
should we bring this person in for an 
interview a second interview you know so 
this like process of let me look at 
something on paper and try to decide yes 
or no you know get a long ways towards 
the decision just from paper like the 
apps had all also you know from in a 
dating sense that sort of said that same 
construct up right like oh if I just 
know whether they smoke or not or want 
kids or not or what they put for their 
religion or you know like then I can 
quickly narrow it down and so I can you 
know be very targeted in these dates 
that I'm going on and so one of the big 
things that I think from the Smart 
dating Academy process and working with 
you guys was just realizing I need to 
actually get to know so people not 
profiles like maybe you do you screen to 
some extent but if I was screening out 
you know 90 just based on a 
two-dimensional view like let's you know 
cut that in half or cut that in you know 
cut that down by some percentage where 
you're going out with more people and 
meeting real people more real people 
less you know profiles so I think that 
was one of the first things just like 
thinking about the funnel and thinking 
about you know how many interactions 
like real interactions I was having 
um that was a big one of the big shifts 
for me among a couple others but yeah 
it's looking at and like you're saying 
developing your dating funnel and it's 
so easy to get stuck on the quantitative 
things right how old is he what are his 
degrees how much money does he make and 
here what you started to do is well we 
call them high GHQ guys right so you go 
through this process you know the kind 
of partner that's going to make you 
happy and now it's being more conscious 
of who you're letting in and then my 
guess is and you can certainly tell us 
about this more it's not being so quick 
to throw people back to the pond if 
we're not feeling that Elusive and I put 
this in air quotes it right away where 
you're like wow okay so tell us about 
that did it change you're building this 
funnel and now you're evaluating people 
more holistically and giving the whole 
person a chance yeah I think the thing I 
totally totally agree and you're totally 
on the right you know track with where 
where it went next 
um but I I think of another piece of 
kind of the early part of the process 
with you 
um that like was even sort of more 
transformational and how to think about 
that because I remember you know 
thinking about kind of rules around how 
many dates and stuff like that but I 
think what really connected with me on 
like how do I actually evaluate once 
they're in the process 
um was an exercise that we had done 
around like people in your life who 
really make you happy like your your 
elevator people and thinking about who 
those people are and I remember you know 
if I would put a paper profile together 
of who those people were for me it's 
like you know I you couldn't pick out of 
a crowd or I wouldn't have guessed that 
that's what their stats would have been 
or that's who those people would have 
been and there was not really that much 
in common in terms of you know their 
demographics or whatever right it was 
all about how they made me feel and how 
they treated me and you know things that 
the big Point here is like also things 
that had developed over a long time 
right like so half the people on the 
list that were like my most treasured 
people and I feel like we all have these 
stories it's like when I first met them 
this like I didn't you know I thought 
they were like this or I you know wasn't 
sure if we were gonna hit it off or it 
you know took a while for like that 
person didn't you know walk into my life 
of my best friend that person became my 
best friend over time and over these you 
know interactions that really it was 
about how they showed up not who they 
were on you know you know paper or even 
even initially how we sort of interacted 
with each other so I think just like for 
me reframing that you know you don't you 
don't get that just instantly and you 
don't even you can't see it and you have 
like real lived examples and other 
relationships where it took a while I 
think that was for me the key to then 
understanding okay I'm looking for 
different things I'm giving it different 
time like you know but but I think to 
what you're saying too like somebody 
who's sort of showing up consistently 
doing small things that show a bigger 
version of who they are versus what 
they're saying or you know the 
conversation or whatever yeah just kind 
of thinking on those other relationship 
examples in my life and then thinking 
about okay well if I was if I was 
looking for a best friend not a partner 
you know how would I think about that it 
probably would look different than how I 
was treating dating and some mobile 
dating is really looking for a best 
friend so I love that I always say once 
we go through that list and figure out 
who your elevator people really are it's 
like okay here's you want to find an 
elevator person who you'd want to sleep 
with basically it's pretty simple at 
that point and you're right it takes 
time for those things to develop and you 
know what your green flags are but also 
then understanding what red flags are 
around the process as well that get 
people screened out and what's really 
interesting and important during this 
process is knowing okay if my picker's 
broken great I can have elevator people 
okay great but what I really realized 
over the last decade is when we're 
acclimated when we're used to having 
people with red flags around us we don't 
even feel the red flags right so having 
holding people's hands through this 
process of going yeah no that is a red 
flag right sometimes our skin becomes so 
thick over time of dealing with toxic 
people that we don't even know what a 
red flag is so 
um so back to how you okay so now you 
consciously know you're going to look 
for an elevator people what changed I 
really remember our first meeting at the 
Four Seasons and where we were really 
talking about okay how do you present 
yourself during a date what do you tell 
us about out that meeting and what you 
remember yeah yeah that was I think if 
if there were three things that was sort 
of the third thing this like you know 
how do you start filling the funnel how 
do you what am I looking for but then to 
your point I think there was also this 
how what am I projecting how am I 
showing up kind of personally on the 
date and to the earlier comment I was a 
little bit conscious of this before we 
met at the Four Seasons that you know 
maybe I am kind of interviewing or you 
know decide like I feel like I'm trying 
to decide something versus like I am 
also being evaluated or being you know 
it's not even an evaluation but you know 
at that time I was so like in this you 
know rubric world of decisions or 
whatever and so I think 
um I was you know coming across 
potentially pretty intense and not 
necessarily like getting you know 
getting the second date not thinking as 
much about getting the second day that's 
fighting if I wanted to have the second 
date 
um and I also would talk a lot about 
work so that was I remember very 
distinctly that you guys asked me to do 
a demo of how I would talk about my job 
and I was like well the American Health 
Care system is very broken and I would 
like you know I like my eyebrows were 
all you know intense looking and I you 
played the video back to me and I was 
like oh my goodness you're like would 
you go up to that person at a cocktail 
party I was like uh probably not she 
looks a little a little intense I'll 
just keep using the word intense 
so being like a little I mean there's 
part of me that's like snarky and 
there's part of me that's you know 
there's a lot of things where I'm not 
full like as bubbly as your amazing 
personality like I truly you you know 
that's very authentic for you and I had 
to find my authentic you know a version 
of my authentic personality but 
um it certainly wasn't you know being 
the uh evaluator of 15 interview 
candidates or talking in depth about you 
know my Visa on the healthcare system so 
yeah I I had to become a little a little 
lighter and a little bit more you know 
this is a two-way street in how I was 
showing up as well right and sometimes 
we're never given that feedback right 
we're only given feedback to your point 
in the business World about okay you do 
X you're a value evaluated on X and 
suddenly okay it's all performance 
driven and you get a promotion and 
you're like okay that's great I must be 
doing a great job so I'm going to put my 
head down and be more intense and be 
more directive and and so it's the 
self-fulfilling prophecy right and we 
think well if that's working I'm going 
to do more of that like the Health Care 
system is very broken and these are my 
opinions on it and suddenly it's like 
wait a second as women what I want if 
you're a woman listening to this and 
this resonates with you this isn't about 
becoming less authentic right because 
remember we are not our jobs we are not 
our careers women are like diamonds okay 
and what do diamonds have they have many 
facets 
and so so often because we've been 
successful in the business world that 
and that's where we spend most of our 
time right and then we get self-esteem 
so we keep doing that we think that's 
the only facet that we have but it's 
like think about who are you when you're 
with your elevator people who are you 
when you're with your family with your 
100 year old grandma who you love who 
are you are you you know State of the 
Union Nikki no you're fun grab a glass 
of wine and putting that facet forward 
and that's what we want you all to think 
about is who was that version of 
yourself you don't necessarily want to 
bring hru or CEO you not that there's 
anything wrong with that person you know 
dear sir or Madam listening to this it's 
that you're looking to make a personal 
connection here and you want to bring 
that facet of you that is both 
interested that looks approachable and 
is interesting to other people 
yes great it's really good advice and 
and I was pretty I think pretty far off 
the mark by the time you found me on 
some of that or at least it would vary a 
lot by it like another thing I was sort 
of became conscious of was I was would 
take other people's energy and this is 
still something that I do at times and 
so it's like if the other person was 
like that then maybe it would be easier 
for me but as soon as the other person 
was you know more serious or like there 
was an awkward moment or whatever right 
then what like what was I turning on 
kind of at those times and so yeah it 
was that was a huge 
turning point for me to sort of realize 
all that I'm so glad you said that 
because 
what Nikki's saying is exactly true we 
all to Assa to an extent we feed off of 
each other's energies right and so 
with that understand you have power to 
create the energy to create the 
atmosphere when you switch to that facet 
of you that's warm you date you playful 
you you have what's called a mood 
quotient and you can bring that mood 
quotient to a person when you show up 
with the bright light version of 
yourself and for Nikki that might be 
different than it is for me or Lindsay 
her dating coach or somebody on the 
street but when you bring that version 
of yourself that is really authentic and 
interested and positive you will Elevate 
and change the mood of the room the best 
metaphor I can give you 
is think about yourself as the power of 
a chandelier right a chandelier can be 
switched on and suddenly it makes the 
room so much more beautiful and bright 
and you have the power to be that 
Chandelier by just turning that switch 
on in yourself and instead of like Nikki 
saying reacting to the mood of someone 
that you're with instead saying I'm 
gonna bring the brightness and I'm going 
to be the chandelier for this date so 
that's such a powerful thing that you 
just said yeah no I I love that analogy 
and it's I mean it's it's funny when we 
when you and I talked I remember about 
me starting up with the coaching in 
general 
um you said you know this can have like 
an impact on many parts of your life 
like I know people that it's really 
helped them in their careers as well and 
I think like even you know that that 
lesson around being like a mood elevator 
yourself right like that I think that 
has applicability even outside of dating 
so I love that oh well you are a total 
elevated person I always love chatting 
with you and that's why you were on this 
podcast with me so tell us you came to 
Chicago we have these you do your photo 
shoot you have a new profile what was 
what kind of a response did you get was 
it different than before with online 
dating 
I think it was yeah 
um it's funny because this is not your 
exact question but immediately when you 
brought up the new profile and um my 
fiance and I were just talking about 
this recently the there were all these 
in in helping anyone redesign their 
profile you guys have these great 
prompts and I I tend to you know one of 
my like uh the playful side of me one 
part of that is you know 
um kind of trying to be a little bit 
creative or clever or something so I 
can't remember if it was like an actual 
prompt or how this came about but we 
ended up updating on I think it was on 
Match specifically because there was 
like this more sort of open text you 
know you put something up about like to 
engage people and we put um and I didn't 
have anything like this before before 
this process we put 
um this whole description of me that was 
like I'm small and sporty but reliable 
and da da da like I guess you could say 
I'm like my first car the Honda Civic so 
you know what car would you be or 
something that was you know is like 
describing me and it was like my first 
bar and then what kind of car would you 
be and my fiance sent a line about 
Seinfeld uh that he's like I don't know 
if I'd be this car but it's like a 
Seinfeld reference John Boyce Buick 
um 
that was what you know made it happen 
that there was this like clever a more 
clever headline obviously the pictures 
were way better and that was amazing too 
but I think like even I remember another 
part of that exercise and like the being 
interesting having showing your facets 
it was also about like putting really 
specific things about you so not just I 
like to do yoga but like I went to 
Sicily on a yoga retreat you know in 
September like so people would have 
things to comment on so I think between 
this like headline and the you know more 
specific examples 
um that was yeah it was helpful to not 
only get more more interest but I think 
to get like qualified or you know people 
that were willing to sort of do the same 
people are willing to engage well I love 
that you said that because women will 
always say like oh guys don't even read 
your profile and here in comes Lucas 
into your inbox he's like wow look at 
this hot dish Nikki okay and he reads 
your profile and he responds to 
something funny in a way and you loved 
his sense of humor you're like okay the 
Buick this is amazing so good men will 
read your profile ladies and they will 
do this Lucas didn't have a dating coach 
he did not no no right and he's like 
miners were all his own exactly right 
he's he's in Aerospace right so he's not 
uh he's not a stand-up comedian but when 
you give somebody 
little tidbits about you to respond to 
when you're thinking about your profile 
think about putting in these one-liners 
that become like cocktail party 
conversation right that get that a good 
guy or a good woman will have something 
to go oh well that's interesting I am 
blah blah and it just makes the 
conversation more interesting and more 
playful so in comes this guy right and 
we're like okay he was one of many 
he was yes and I think at that time 
I was still trying to that was part of 
the funnel or like the you know 
Bachelorette style Vibe like have have 
some options in the in the mix 
um so yeah there were I think I was 
still dating a few other people at that 
time although I remember it also being a 
time that was getting kind of busy for 
me in my personal life and so 
um that was an interesting dynamic 
because it was that wasn't one of the 
ways early on that he sort of started to 
show up was you know and he was actually 
finishing grad school at the time too 
and so we were both like in this busy 
season we kind of were seeing each other 
like once a week and it was you know 
sometimes like oh I'm gonna be flying 
back from San Francisco what about a 
hike you know or like my I have friends 
in town like could we do brunch so you 
know it was like more of these like 
low-key dates and you really like we 
both really had to be committed to 
making it happen because I wasn't like 
super easy or you know like prime time 
options or like it could even go you 
know really fast out of the gates if we 
had wanted it to you know I think 
through the process I learned that that 
like super you know the love bombing 
potential or the really hot and heavy 
like you're not really even looking for 
that but very early on the fact that 
there were some barriers we also by La 
standards it was sort of a long distance 
relationship because it was like a 40 to 
an hour commute between our houses so 
you know that that was one of the things 
that actually did Stand Out was Hey You 
know despite the fact that things are 
busy and 
um you know that it's not like a just 
walk out the door and meet up for drinks 
you know on a Tuesday night we have to 
really be planful but that we actually 
did that I think that was one of those 
kind of good signs that he's looking for 
something you know more serious and he's 
willing to show up in that way 
that's great and he was consistent and 
reliable and you followed the slow 
trajectory of not we're not fascinating 
here we're slow dating here we're a day 
to week overtime can become a couple 
dates a week then can become three dates 
a week and then 
um and then you became exclusive like 
share is there a fun story around how 
you guys decided that 
you know it was pretty 
um 
it was pretty quick in this you know in 
the context of this like data week slow 
start kind of thing 
um and it wasn't you know when we first 
met and I I've told him this that you 
know going back to where we started on 
the like how how should it feel what did 
it feel like 
um he felt very like he felt like home 
to me very early like I couldn't quite 
put my finger on that that's what it 
felt like you know and that that's 
different than Sparks or like we have to 
go have another drink and another one 
and we're gonna you know shut the bar 
down or whatever but um it just felt 
very comfortable very familiar very safe 
and you know sort of the best way so 
that part was like clear to me early on 
but there were there were things yeah I 
mentioned some of the kind of like time 
and and distance hurdles that we had to 
think about but then also 
um he's more introverted than I am uh 
more like into at-home things like at 
that time I was still you know kind of 
coming off that business school like I 
have to go to 14 countries in business 
school or I have to you know see 
everything and get the Troubadour on a 
Tuesday and you know like Max I'm like a 
social maximizer historically so some of 
that was what I was like learning about 
and feeling out in the dates was like 
okay I really I feel like I could trust 
this person I feel like he's a really 
good person we have sort of different 
um styles but in terms of being excited 
about it and and feeling like we wanted 
to be exclusive that was like the fifth 
date which was you know maybe a month 
and and change in after a comedy show 
and 
um because yeah it was nothing nothing 
like a crazy big story but it was it was 
a pretty easy yes I think from both of 
us that we were sort of tracking along 
on the same page and 
um and then yeah we just started 
dating from there and 
um you know to the point around like 
different styles and feeling that out I 
um I always like to say that so I did 
not cook at all before meeting him uh at 
all so like I think our fourth day maybe 
was was making pizza together and he's 
like we can do it at your place I was 
like okay great he's like do you have 
um flower I was like uh I don't think so 
he's like do you have a rolling pin I'm 
like could we use a wine bottle he's 
like do you have salt I'm like it's 
pretty old I think it's from when I 
lived in Chicago so he just like bought 
everything from the grocery store like 
down to the you know brought his own 
pants brought his own like equipment 
came over to my place and you know made 
it there and so 
um it's actually been really fun because 
now we love to cook together and there's 
a lot of other things like you know but 
we also like host dinner parties with 
our friends and there's just ways that 
are kind of two lives have come together 
that I think that was a lot of the story 
of you know the 
we dated almost two years before moving 
in because of the pandemic but you know 
over that time as you're getting more 
and more serious it was sort of figuring 
out okay we really care a lot about each 
other how to how do these pieces fit 
together in our life here and then you 
know how how does how do we think about 
you know long term and are we aligned on 
those things as well 
totally and for those of you listening 
who work with us and have listened to us 
I know you hear us talking about nope 
don't you know go to each other's houses 
and cook or there's a we we're not going 
to get exclusive until 15 days but 
understand that as part of our process 
right we know and Lindsay was following 
your relationship closely and knowing 
okay I know Nikki really well and I can 
get a good gut on this guy which is why 
we do what we do with smartaining 
Academy so if you're going wait a second 
I thought blah blah blah well guess what 
there's always when you're in this 
one-on-one this is what we do is we will 
help you say okay you know what at date 
four this dude's really good news and 
this is a really good bet for you and 
yeah it's going to stretch you out of 
your comfort zone because you don't have 
any flour at your house so if this guy 
is willing to do this that's fine and 
you know better than because you've been 
taught if that doesn't necessarily mean 
we're going to sleep together right that 
means that we're going to make pizza 
together so if you're listening to this 
going but wait I've been following your 
rules it's okay the rules can be 
different based on who you are who the 
guy is and that's the beauty of having 
someone who's following your process in 
the way Lindsay was following you I also 
I realized I misspoke because this date 
was after we were exclusive the home 
game so we were following we were even 
following the rules in that regard well 
it's been too long I get my dates I 
think that was more like date six now 
that I think about it I think date four 
was when we went to brunch and saw Tyra 
Banks oh yeah that's awesome did she 
flies at you I think she was facing him 
and he was like I think I know that lady 
and I was like who was that okay who's 
that 
who's that and so so tell us about this 
relationship with the lindiorpa with 
Lucas you guys navigated covid and it 
seems like 
it brought you closer together and tell 
us where you are now yeah yeah the covid 
the coven chapter was was really 
interesting for us just a quick aside on 
that because you know I think people had 
all different flavors of what did copen 
do to your relationship you know like 
did it accelerate it did it blow it up 
you know were you like driving each 
other crazy because now you're 
constantly together you know whatever 
those different versions were and for us 
um 
we so we'd been dating maybe five months 
at that point and five six and uh he was 
working like in person he was an 
essential worker because he was out in a 
manufacturing setting and so we actually 
stopped seeing each other in person for 
like a month or two so we were like we 
went back like we were cooked we did 
cooking dates online and like we did you 
know trivia with friends in other cities 
online we I remember we did like a walk 
and you know we're socially distanced in 
our like bandanas and just like hugged 
each other at the end but like he really 
did not want to he was worried he would 
get exposed did not want to give it to 
me 
so I was like crazy you know to kind of 
have to go all the way back which yeah 
okay probably you know to your point 
kind of solidified things or you know it 
was it really like forced us to to be 
sure about the Friendship part or like 
really brought that to light right that 
you know even if we can't be together we 
can you know it's still worth it to you 
know have this connection and we'll 
figure out ways to make it feel like we 
are you know spending time 
that was really interesting 
but yeah 
um you know I think it was kind of 
probably like the year and a half mark 
when really you know he was finished 
with school we had 
um you know been kind of coming out the 
other side of the pandemic I've been 
dating a long time had started to meet 
each other's families which you know 
that was a bit um postponed because of 
covet as well sure and that was the 
point when you know we just I think 
making sure that we were on the same 
page about what we wanted longer term 
those were kind of the the conversations 
to revisit a lot of times I'll talk with 
girlfriends about how you know it's 
funny in the beginning of a relationship 
when you talk about those things people 
will say something right like oh I want 
to be married or I want of course or I 
want to live in this place or I'm open 
to this thing right but then like a year 
and a half in when it's like this is not 
just in theory this is like do we want 
to do that do we want to get that we've 
been on this timeline right and so kind 
of going back to those foundational 
conversations 
um and once we you know it sort of did 
that and we're on the same page then 
um decided to move in which was a good 
like can we actually you know do this 
around the clock we were still living 
far apart most of the time we were 
together so it was easier to you know 
just spend more time together frankly by 
cutting out the the commute yeah and we 
did that for about a year before talking 
about getting engaged and 
um that was the surprise this summer 
before we took off on an awesome trip to 
Italy so did a nice just home intimate 
home proposal before we had a week 
together on the Amalfi Coast which was 
like the most romantic place to 
celebrate our engagement and yeah we're 
working on this wedding now so at the to 
your point I think five years ago I 
would not have did not fully believe I 
had hoped you know that I would be 
telling a story like this one but I 
didn't know you know how quickly would 
happen or if really the you know kind of 
that 10 years of my 20s trying and 
failing in my mind to you know meet 
somebody I wasn't sure if I would would 
make someone and so I'm super excited 
and grateful grateful to you and Lindsay 
obviously in for the process and just 
looking forward to the next chapter 
oh that's amazing and and Nikki said 
some really so many great things but I 
want to take the time to just expound on 
those a little bit right we get 
exclusive we think we're on track and 
like she said so accurately in the 
beginning a lot of people will say yes I 
want to get married yes I want to have 
kids in theory but as you go through 
this process and I remember having a few 
conversations with you along the way 
through the relationship it's like okay 
now it's time to have those 
conversations do you see yourself 
marrying me 
do you want to have kids with me do you 
and and making sure that you are aligned 
on this and moving towards that you're 
valuing the same things you have the 
same timeline so that is so important 
not to make those assumptions right and 
to do those check-ins like yes it's 
great that you said you wanted to get 
married do you want to marry me and 
having and and that requires courage and 
that requires being with someone that 
you feel like you can have those 
conversations with and if you're 
listening to this and you feel like oh 
my gosh like I've never had the guts or 
the courage to have that conversation I 
promise you you can and you can be in a 
relationship where you feel safe enough 
and you're looking at like the mile 
markers essentially like did we check 
this off check this off check this off 
okay do you want to marry me and then 
holding yourself self and your partner 
accountable to meeting those timelines 
in a way that you're both happy with and 
comfortable with because I think if you 
don't have those conversations so much 
time can Whittle by and you're like wow 
but well I just assumed in the beginning 
that he said he wanted to get married 
and now we're four years into this and 
now he's like well no I I've changed my 
mind and now what you've got this sunk 
cost on your books for four years at 
this point I can speak this language 
with you yeah no well and I think I mean 
the other part that seems almost 
seemed almost as or two other things of 
what you're saying in there that were 
really important to me too is you know I 
actually 
realized that I I was as much like hey 
this isn't theoretical more this is real 
anymore this is real that was as much 
true for me as as you know anyone in the 
relationship right like that I had to 
actually re you know be sure that those 
are the things I wanted like the kids 
example you know coming back to this the 
premise of you know your career and 
you're like you know I there's a lot of 
stuff in my life that you know I really 
love and and I'm a very conscious of 
what a big commitment that will be at 
some point right and so like it could 
have been that I was the one that said 
you know I'm not sure anymore right or 
you know I was in some way totally 
confirm that for myself so I think like 
knowing what you want and what you need 
for real not just because you know like 
I was so fixated on just getting in a 
relationship and I hadn't really had 
real relationship experience that like 
there was a bit of hey I gotta like 
actually you know catch up to like what 
this all means you know before I just 
continue my little project management 
timeline as well you know so I think 
there's this like being able to 
articulate your own wants and needs and 
maybe how that's like evolving you know 
given that you're actually in a real 
situation versus a theoretical 
um I think that that's really important 
um so you know there was a kind of just 
resetting in my own uh place as well 
that had to happen 
yeah and Nikki just said something again 
that is really important if this 
resonates with you and you feel like you 
don't have a lot of relationship 
experience right it's okay at any age 
right you can still find the lid to your 
pot but getting into getting help around 
whatever it is you need with that for 
some people that might be trauma therapy 
for some people you know that's regular 
talk therapy for some people it's yeah I 
need a lot of help in the intervention 
around this like who gets in who gets 
out and having somebody to kind of 
Shepherd you through the process and 
laugh with and be positive with and give 
people nicknames and throw them back to 
the pond and that's certainly you know 
more along the lines of what we do at 
Smart dating Academy so just know that 
if that resonates with you and you don't 
a lot of people come to us like okay 
I've never really been in love or you 
know I have haven't had a serious 
boyfriend over two or three months it's 
okay and some people come in saying I've 
been married five times and I still 
haven't got this right no matter where 
you are in your process and at what age 
there's always hope for you to find the 
lid to your pot 
I agree I agree 
we are Fountains of Hope aren't we yes 
yes no I yeah I can't say can't say 
enough 
uh I can't reiterate enough the things 
that you're saying because I think like 
I kind of started out at the beginning 
you know there were there was a lot of 
there was a lot there that I was doing 
right but I think kind of changing a few 
of these assumptions and and really uh 
sharpening the pencil on how to to show 
up in this process uh it makes the 
difference and it makes it you know 
makes it possible makes things that I 
didn't think were possible possible so 
oh I love this and you have friends with 
similar stories 
yeah I mean I think 
um you know being going through this 
process and 
um you know when I talk about like those 
the girlfriends of my 20s and there's a 
little bit the blind leading the blind 
all of us single but giving each other 
daily advice you know I think now that 
there's more of us actually in serious 
relationships across all my friend 
groups 
um you see the same themes you know 
popping up of kind of what works and 
what it takes and and it's nice to be 
able to sort of talk to each other or 
sometimes to sort of lend what I know 
from this process to our our 
conversations oh and we have some of 
your friends that have joined us as well 
and have found success if I'm not 
mistaken yes yes indeed 
well listen if you know Nikki is an 
amazing Testament to a lot of things you 
can be professional and educated and try 
a lot of different things and sit back 
and what I love is that it took you time 
from the time that you and I first met 
at Andy's Christmas party gosh I think 
you know Max who's now a freshman in 
high school was probably not even 
walking when we first met back in the 
day because I remember when when Andy 
joined the firm that you guys both 
worked at so I remember meeting you I 
remember exactly where it was and I 
couldn't be more delighted that you did 
it your way for a while and then 
realized hmm maybe I'm going to try it 
your way and try a different way and 
here you are three years later and 
getting to the point where you've got 
the greatest partner for you the lid to 
your pot and and your future is bright 
and I'm just so happy to have been a 
small part of it yes I thank you again 
so much Bella for this opportunity to 
share and and for everything uh when you 
put it in the context of somebody uh 
going from walking to high school that 
really does make her feel like it's took 
a little while but it was it was the way 
it was supposed to happen and it's all 
worth it and then so thank you again is 
there any last thing that I might not 
have asked you that you wanna any little 
gem that you want to share with someone 
listening to this that can really relate 
to 
you know I I feel like we've I feel like 
we've covered it it's because it isn't 
you know to me there's so much that goes 
into all of this relationships are 
really complicated understanding 
yourself is really you know your life's 
work right and so there's I don't know 
that there's like one you know parting 
thought so much as just you know stay 
positive through the pop the process 
because it is possible but it it takes 
you know all of these different pieces 
coming together there's no Silver Bullet 
you know it's uh it's a process but it's 
one that is very gratifying you know and 
and I think benefits again like we 
talked about you in many parts of your 
life not just when it comes to a partner 
I'm so glad this has benefited you in so 
many parts of your life and most 
importantly with an amazing fiance and 
if I can leave you guys with a node of 
inspiration based on this chat it's 
someday you will be on your last first 
date someday somebody will send you that 
last first message and someday you're 
going to go on a date with the person 
that in a healthy way like Nikki says 
Feels Like Home 
and I hope that you have enjoyed Nikki's 
love story and make sure you check out 
the show notes we'll do a cute page that 
you can look at Nikki and see her cute 
face and maybe some pictures from her 
engagement and uh and until next week I 
send you love hugs psychotic optimism a 
wave of the magic wand and know that 
love will come to you it's a when it's 
not an if and be psychotically damn 
optimistic for your own love story 
because I know if you're listening to 
this someday you're going to be on this 
podcast telling your own love story 
