[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart taters happy Monday and welcome 
back I am God you know this is my 
favorite time of year and why is this my 
favorite time of year because something 
amazing happens at this time of year and 
I want to help you get ready for Peak 
dating season we should just start 
calling it PDS because we've been 
talking about this for so many years at 
this point so I know you're thinking 
about it you want all the juice on how 
to get ready so I'm bringing one of my 
favorite people one of my favorite 
guests one of my favorite humans on 
Earth I'm bringing you Lindsay the 
Superstar of Insider secrets to dating 
my right hand shares my dating brain 
Lindsay I'm so glad you're here with me 
let's empty our brains out for all these 
beautiful people globally that want to 
know what the hell is Peak dating season 
and why why we're here so welcome thank 
you thank you and by the way why haven't 
we been calling it PDS all these years 
it's way better than PMS I was about 
more fun I love it and by the way nobody 
talks about PMS anymore like is that 
even a thing 
no you're right maybe it's all these we 
have too many good treatments now I 
don't know I you're right nobody really 
does talk about PMS but they should all 
be talking about PDS which is so much 
more fun so much more exciting and it 
doesn't hurt as much well listen you 
guys I as I squirrel off into PMS 
Lindsay often tells me it's like I have 
squirrel brain and if there's something 
bright glossy and red outside of the 
window I'll be like oh my god let's look 
at that let's talk about that and then I 
need to come back to Center again so I'm 
always like Bella back to the notes 
in the schedule yes yes exactly so this 
is my creative nature that comes to 
haunt me constantly so I'm back to PDS 
versus PMS so 
um now Peak dating season right I mean 
we've had Smart dating Academy since 
October of 2009 and I don't think 
Peak dating season was a thing or 
anybody was really talking about it 
until maybe I don't know 2014 
2015. yeah yeah right because you've 
been with me since 2013. I remember we 
did something on the Today Show about it 
and that had to be maybe 2015-16 and now 
it's a thing I'm definitely doing good 
morning America on January 7th because 
the busiest online dating day of the 
year is shortly thereafter but let me 
come back to Center and let's talk about 
Peak dating season for those of you that 
are new to us what is it think about 
December January February okay and what 
happens around this time there's two 
drivers for Peak dating season 
50 to 80 percent membership increases on 
all the dating apps and dating sites on 
planet Earth right like what is going on 
people often say like God I would have 
never thought this I everybody thinks 
that dating numbers increase in the 
summer we talk about summer love we're 
talking we're off of work our kids are 
off of work and it feels like that's a 
better time to date oh contraire mon 
frere this is the right time because 
there's two drivers the holidays 
and new year new me right I mean we see 
this every single year 
we do and it follows we we joke it 
always follows like the weight loss 
Trends you know if you try to go to the 
gym in the beginning of January you are 
like pushing people off the treadmill 
left and right the classes are full all 
of the regular people are like who are 
all these strangers in my class same 
thing happens online people get excited 
if they think thought about trying 
dating before and they haven't been on 
the sites they'll jump on like 
gangbusters if they've taken a break for 
a while they get right back on because 
everybody is ready to do something fresh 
it's really it's I think that makes it 
so much more fun I'm cracking up and 
having a squirrel moment here because I 
know as you know someone who loves to 
work out I go to the gym and I know 
January 2nd I'm like I'm not going to be 
able to find a parking space at the gym 
and then last year I remember taking my 
own advice swallowing my own Kool-Aid 
saying reframe this positively wow how 
amazing that there's so many more people 
that want to be concerned about their 
health and wellness and they are now 
coming to the gym as well so that made 
me less aggravated when I was looking 
for a parking space because I thought of 
all these people that are going to do 
good for their body and speaking of if 
you haven't listened to the episode two 
weeks ago about how to become more 
psychotically optimistic I talk about 
positive reframing you can be like damn 
it I hate all these people I can't find 
a parking space or you can say thank 
goodness all these people are here 
because the world is gonna get healthier 
in general and isn't that lovely so go 
back and listen to that episode but now 
let's listen by the way I just want to 
give you credit for that that is a very 
good reminder see guys we teach all this 
and we also have to put to practice 
everything we talk about too so one very 
nice reminder I like it 100 we're not 
perfect humans we don't live 
I know I know you all think we're 
perfect right and we really appreciate 
that we do have those one percent 
moments just kidding we're like we 
struggle with the same things every day 
maybe in different pieces of our lives 
right because life has all these 
different pieces right for you guys 
dating might be one of them right we're 
in relationships we have kids we have 
work we're all living in that same vat 
of what we call life right and we have 
to constantly in some ways revise our 
own mindset so yes positively reframing 
and go back and listen to that 
psychotically optimistic episode I might 
go back and listen to myself just 
kidding 
um but I will I'll put my headphones in 
before bed and I'll just listen to your 
voice listen to me just listen to me 
um I like it at night it's really funny 
I was actually out taking a walk in the 
park and you know I looked horrible and 
had a baseball hat on and my air pods 
and this woman walked past me she's like 
hey I'm listening to you right now your 
podcast I was like oh my God I need to 
wear sunglasses because I look horrible 
and I'm really embarrassed that someone 
saw me isn't that very funny well it is 
but what a cool I mean I love that 
podcast moment you guys it was a podcast 
moment so wear your sunglasses because 
you never know who's gonna see you when 
you don't have mascara on so now let's 
talk about back to Peak dating season so 
you know everybody is getting online 
right now right new year new me January 
1 just does that like Lindsay's saying 
weight loss right I want to get a new 
job I want to have new friends what are 
the new resets that we're going to do 
right so what happens is 
all these new people are getting online 
because everybody's like longer I hate 
the dating apps but maybe I'll give it a 
try again some people come in they're 
bright-eyed and bushy-tailed saying I've 
been so scared to try the apps but maybe 
I'm gonna give it a try maybe I'll be 
open to love and if this resonates with 
you this is so the right time for you to 
think about dipping your toe into the 
pool so much so that if you're in this 
pool of people 
Sundays are typically the busiest day of 
the week right Lindsay as you and I both 
know we tell our clients maybe launch on 
Saturday or Sunday once we're coaching 
with them because Sunday evenings right 
after dinner between 6 and 10 p.m are 
the busiest times in any given week to 
be online now why is that I'm sure we 
can posit an answer to that right well 
absolutely I mean I think people get 
online because just like you're looking 
at your calendar to see what work 
meetings you have first thing Monday 
morning you're also thinking through the 
week and looking at your schedule and 
wanting to sort of see who just got on 
tonight that I want to start a 
conversation with for the next few days 
that I could potentially go on a date 
with or move to the phone or going to 
have a video call with by the end of the 
week so 
same thing evenings are a great time to 
be online and we're not saying if you 
missed your Sunday evening after between 
seven and nine PM oh you're done for the 
week this is you know the online dating 
pool is like the ocean there are is 
always water there are always people 
there are just certain times where 
you're going to catch a bigger wave and 
so Sunday nights are a great time and or 
anytime in the evening 
when people often ask like what if I 
just am an early bird I get up at 3am 
I'm like no don't message people at 3am 
yeah don't do that but other than that 
any other time in the evening right you 
can earmark people to message write down 
things screenshot them whatever it is 
but no messaging at 3am because you're 
in Insomniac right get on Audible Listen 
to A Book Like do something else right 
get yourself into a more positive mind 
space but yeah so Sundays are definitely 
the busiest times and now we've got the 
Sunday after New Year's Day now what's 
particularly peculiar about 20 23 is New 
Year's Day is a Sunday yeah okay so I 
had a call with one of my favorite 
people at match two weeks ago and we 
talked about what match calls dating 
Sunday what we call the busiest online 
dating day of the year and we're all 
co-present addicting that it's going to 
be Sunday January 8th so put that in 
your calendar you actually have extra 
time this year right if you can get 
online New Year's Day if you're not too 
hungover or you know you're not resolved 
to not you know use your phone or your 
apps on New Year's Day whatever it is 
try it on New Year's Day but get 
prepared that you've got this extra week 
until January 8th so match will have the 
busiest moment I mean typically they 
predict that sometime between the 8 p.m 
and 9 p.m hour where you are locally is 
going to be the busiest moment of the 
busiest day I've seen 8 51 PM I've seen 
8 52 p.m again don't obsess but just 
know that you want to be if you've got 
the wherewithal to be in the ocean that 
day as Lindsay said the wave will be 
cresting but if you miss it or you sleep 
through it or you're too hungover it's 
okay because you know what's going to 
happen tomorrow morning there's still a 
lot of fish in the sea okay exactly 
exactly and the fun thing too is because 
we're talking about Peak dating season 
more and more they're getting in the 
media and they're putting the message 
out other people are going to be really 
inspired by this too so you guys will 
get to hear about it here but the 
message is out there that the online 
dating this is the best time to be 
online right now people are going to 
feel more energetic and more excited 
about it and that's only going to help 
you fellow dators because we're going to 
give you great tips today on what you 
can do to prepare for that before 
everybody else gets on site gets on the 
site exactly exactly so by the time 
you're hearing this it's going to be 
before Christmas and you've got time and 
remember this is really as much as we're 
focused on gifting everybody else and 
getting our houses ready for family 
remember 
you deserve a gift from yourself and 
that gift is invest resting in yourself 
and preparing for yourself right so 
think of yourself as highly as you think 
of others and this is a gift that you're 
going to give yourself why because you 
deserve it right and give yourself maybe 
an hour a day to prepare do something 
that gives you Joy and remember 
preparing for something that's really 
important to you intentionally and if 
you're what do I want in 2023 if one of 
you are always ask yourself that 
question in life yeah right what do I 
really want and if something that you 
really want is finding the cheer pod 
finding love doing things differently 
then you deserve the gift of your own 
time your own effort your own energy 
your own investment to doing this so 
make yourself give yourself the gift of 
your time every day I kind of love this 
this just came to me do you like this 
like giving I'm nodding my head and 
smiling at you because I'm I'm drinking 
the Kool-Aid Bella and yes oh you're 
exactly right and when we're saying give 
yourself the gift of the time make sure 
you're studying reasonable goals so what 
can often happen sometimes even going 
back to the gym analogy is people can 
overdo it jump all in put too much time 
up front and then get fatigued and what 
we want to encourage is good dating 
takes patience 
perseverance and being really positive 
so you have to look at this like you're 
playing the long game so give yourself 
the time but still just spend a small 
amount of time 30 minutes a day dating 
30 minutes a day on the apps and then 
shut it down and then refresh and do it 
again the next day but don't go all in 
and say it's Peak dating season five 
hours every day you are going to burn 
out and that just isn't good for anybody 
consistency is the key here 100 and I 
know as we're we're all talking about 
weight loss right it's like if I vow to 
lose 10 pounds and I go to the gym and I 
eat well one day I'm like why isn't that 
10 pounds gone and I know you're all 
feeling me hard on this one right but 
remember we all have that Amazon Prime 
mentality that as soon as we start to do 
something like Lindsay's saying don't 
spend five hours online don't spend five 
hours at the gym because this is a 
marathon and it's like marathon training 
it's not a Sprint right sometimes it it 
blows my mind that when people do train 
for marathons Lindsay's husband Ryan has 
run a gajillion marathons I have not and 
I never will for them either will I I 
never will either my body would fall 
apart and you know Lindsay and I are 
meant for different things than 
marathons right and that's why we're 
your Marathon Trainers for dating right 
and so really thinking about you know 
when people train for marathons it's 
like a six to eight month training Pro 
program where you're running a little 
bit different every day every week but 
in the dating process we want to get 
online and find love January 12th but 
that's not going to happen here so 
knowing I've got my patients positivity 
and perseverance in mine and I'm going 
to do something every day that's going 
to bring me joy and I'm going to spend a 
little bit of time on the apps but I'm 
playing the long game here I'm not 
expecting instant gratification so these 
are really important things you guys in 
keeping yourself playing the long game 
because let me tell you what dating is 
not a short game no no and as much as we 
wish it could and again you're hearing 
about everybody coming online what we 
don't want to happen is that you start 
feeling we don't want you feeling bad if 
it seems like everybody's online and 
you're not in a relationship by the end 
of January 
there is no pressure your outcome if you 
stick with this you will meet somebody 
great if you stick with it just don't 
give up and we don't know when the lid 
to your pot is coming but if you're 
doing a little bit every single day he 
or she will show up and we promise you 
that and that's one of those things 
where you want to take a minute and step 
back and celebrate small successes so I 
look at it as ever at the end of every 
week just have a moment of reflection 
and say all right what did I do this 
week that I'm really proud of for dating 
how many did I set up my one phone call 
did I have a video date did I get online 
every single day did I give somebody did 
I smile when I was out and just engage 
with people in real life like what did 
you do then take a step back and look at 
at the end of every month what did you 
do that month how many dates did you go 
on the average person's going on one 
date a month if you're going out twice 
every other week hey guess what you are 
doubling that if you're going out every 
single week that's four new people a 
month you calculate that over the year 
like you're doing the things you need to 
do and then giving yourself credit along 
the way so like we want you guys to have 
a little party for yourself at the end 
of every week at the end of every month 
hell at the end of every single day if 
you have to 
just the key is that you don't get 
discouraged 
it's so so true I mean and we've had 
clients saying I've had 80 different 
people I've been messaging I've been on 
40 dates yet and I still haven't found 
someone and we're like and it's okay 
because we're gonna keep running until 
we do so don't discourage yourself 
celebrate yourself instead celebrate the 
things that you did right don't compare 
yourself to others remember comparison 
is the thief of joy 
oh good one okay and then we compare 
ourselves to others when we compare 
ourselves to what we think well it 
happened for my neighbor right away she 
got herself online and met someone a 
week later and now they're in the 
Bahamas for the holidays you know what 
comparison is the thief of Joy send her 
love and her boo love in your heart and 
know that you too are going to find 
someone but don't gauge your own journey 
by anybody else's because someday 
somebody's going to be inspired by your 
journey and go God it happened for her 
him so quickly why not me and you're 
gonna know in your own heart no it 
didn't you just didn't see my whole 
backstory yes yes oh that's such a good 
point and I think you're right and even 
when you can if you feel like everybody 
is going a million dates in the 
beginning of the month or this through 
this winter also recognize that we still 
don't want you to run in in rush things 
if you feel like everybody else is 
moving fast and jumping into 
relationships right away if you've been 
listening to our podcast you know that 
we are slow and steady Eddies we like 
things to evolve we like you to build in 
a lot of time getting to know somebody 
and keeping a good dating pipeline going 
so one of the keys for being successful 
is making sure that you really are 
hedging your bets that you're still that 
you're not jumping into a relationship 
just because this person looks good 
right away but that you're fully vetting 
them and that's one of the biggest 
things that we can do and how we help 
our clients pacing it and making sure 
that we wait to really see who somebody 
is over time that's important that's 
important exactly exactly and you know 
Lindsay let's let's talk a little bit 
about the brass tacks of how we want to 
position ourselves in the next one to 
four weeks about Peak dating season so 
get your notebooks out and I want to 
tell you what couple things and you know 
what maybe you've heard this from us 
before but remember repetition is how we 
absorb information and repetition even 
if you've heard this before remember 
knowledge is not power knowledge without 
action is nothing execution is power so 
I want you to think about number one 
what app or site are you going to quote 
unquote maybe relaunch yourselves or 
launch yourself on so let's talk a 
little bit about that what I want you to 
know is if you're on 678 10 different 
apps right now I want you to consider 
slimming it down lose some weight in 
your dating apps 
strategy is start off slow start off 
maybe with one the max two and then 
after you've worked that for a while 
because anytime that you launch brand 
new on an app that's where you're gonna 
get your profile and your is going to be 
seen the most so you want to capitalize 
on having a really good launch where the 
most people are going to see you and 
then the longer you're on something it's 
almost like you fall a little further 
back in the search so that's a good time 
then to relaunch somewhere else but if 
you start with all six at the same time 
you're going to burn out really quickly 
and then you're not going to feel like 
you have anywhere else to go once 
everything starts to slow down which it 
always does which it does for every 
single person out there that's very 
normal yeah I mean I know it this just 
brings to mind like makeovers I've done 
on set at Steve Harvey on GMA and it's 
amazing to me people will say I'm on 
eight different apps right now and I'm 
like 
think about being on eight different 
anythings if you were on eight different 
weight loss plans like how effective 
would it be it would be like oh my God 
wait I shouldn't eat carbs wait I should 
eat carbs wait I should eat high fat 
weight I should eat low fat you can't 
you'll spin yourself in a circle and 
you'll end up feeling frustrated and 
confused so Focus like anything big in 
life you have to focus on a couple of 
things maybe one or two things in order 
to be able to make any movement on that 
so pick a site or an app that's good in 
your city that's good in your age 
bracket and I can hear your thought 
right now well what is that tell me what 
the secret is well here's the big secret 
and it's a secret you're not going to 
want to hear there is no one perfect 
dating app or one perfect site Lindsay 
right we've had clients yes 
I'm like they're everywhere there's not 
one site where where like we're gonna 
tell you the secret that nobody else 
knows it really is it's really what's 
right for you but we also like to play 
and go where the numbers are the biggest 
so look at the sites that have been 
around the longest I think that's a good 
way to start and look where you can get 
the most information about the person 
that you're dating because I think 
that's an easier way to screen in for 
red flags as well but the key to yes 
something just came to mind 
when you get on a siteorn app 
there's something called anchoring that 
happens in our brains and let's say you 
were on you know 
Bumble okay a year ago and you get on 
Bumble and you start swiping and you're 
like oh my God there's the guy in the 
reindeer antlers he's been on here every 
year with these photos and what happens 
at that point when we see one person 
that we might have seen in the past we 
feel we often feel frustrated 
we feel discouraged we feel like oh my 
god I've run through the inventory 
already it's all the same stuff now is 
that a true thought Lindsay no 
it's actually just the magical way that 
our brains work because we have to sort 
through all of this information and 
stimuli so we notice and remember the 
things that we've seen before and it's 
not true that one guy in Rudolph costume 
whoever it is is not the only dater out 
there in the pool your brain just 
remembered it and then you could just 
move on and find somebody else that 
you've never seen before they're 
everywhere right so when you relaunch 
yourself and you see the guy or the gal 
or a few that you've seen before 
remember oh wait there are 118 million 
single adults in this country so so I 
recognize two that's okay that's okay 
because this is just my brain looking 
for familiarity which again our brains 
want to make us feel comfortable right 
we're like oh I recognize that this is 
safe don't feel like this is going to be 
the same old same old right so don't let 
that happen to your brain now and 
remember the client sorry to interrupt 
this yeah no please do remember a client 
we have we may have talked about this in 
an earlier podcast but she had um she 
relaunched with us on a site and one of 
the guys that wrote her was somebody she 
had seen before when she had been on 
before and she's like oh no no I've 
decided I think he's way too busy for me 
I said well he look at this message I'm 
gonna jump ahead and tell you she is now 
married to this man because she would 
have ignored him because she'd seen him 
before but she didn't really interact 
with them before she just remembered him 
and had that same experience I'm like 
write him again it's a fresh start guys 
this is a reset unless you've had unless 
they have red flags and you've had a bad 
experience just because you've seen them 
before this person keeps writing you 
back and liking you well clearly they're 
liking you for a reason give them a 
chance too if there are no red flags if 
there's no red flags right so 100 you 
never know right we've told I've told 
you guys the story of our client that 
had five good dates with somebody and 
then was ghosted he took her out on her 
birthday and then ghosted her and then 
came back two years later and we slowly 
paced it and they are now happily living 
together because sometimes people 
realize I made a big mistake and I did 
my work and now I'm coming back 
wholeheartedly but if you feel like yeah 
no this person kind of comes back around 
all the time over the holidays we just 
talked about winter coating an X that 
comes back to you around the holidays 
right because they don't want to be 
alone and they want some dates for the 
holidays and they put you on like a 
winter coat and as soon as the weather 
gets warm they shed you again so no to 
your point Lindsay and to what I'm 
saying is 
you never know give someone a chance if 
you're not sure that this person is 
toxic or you're being winter coated give 
something a chance and if you need help 
good Lord reach out to us this is what 
we do every day as we help you to make 
sure something is Savory versus unsavory 
and I'm not talking about salty meat 
saver I'm saying like is this a good 
person or a wolf in sheep's clothing 
and if it's a wolf in sheep's clothing 
delete their like or delete them or hide 
them from search and then just move on 
and focus on all the other millions of 
people that you've never seen or switch 
up your search a little bit so that you 
can restructure how you're looking at 
people change something with your 
profile but yes I know I'm really glad 
that was a really good point I could see 
it in your eyes Bella you're about you 
had you were inspired by an idea I was 
inspired by you Lindsey Anderson oh 
thank you but you're right as you're 
thinking about sites too we should talk 
about photos about yeah let's do that 
important thing go there go there friend 
go there guys the photo is your 
Marketing in cyberspace having excellent 
photos we talk about this all the time 
and I mean it your photos that is what 
is going to get the click it is the most 
important thing that you have great 
photos now we are in the holiday season 
and there's a lot of time where you get 
to put on some sparkle right now or you 
may be dressed up and you're going out 
I'm gonna highly recommend when you are 
dressed in looking your best please 
please please please hand your iPhone or 
your camera phone to anybody have 
somebody take a picture with good 
lighting 
um don't over filter but use portrait 
mode but take pictures of yourself and 
if you are not going to holiday parties 
go through your closet and put on that 
dress you always wish you could wear and 
still have somebody take your picture 
amen sister exactly I've been wearing a 
lot of sequins in the last week or so 
and I I have not had anybody take a 
photo and I probably should because it's 
the we it's it's Sparkle time and yes 
take pictures of yourself right if you 
you can set the timer on your camera 
have good headshots okay now let's kind 
of go there for a second a photos are 
critical and have a good photo of 
yourself that's a good headshot and 
that's some janky old photo that's 
sitting in your iPhone from three or 
four years ago get your face ready men 
and women okay groom it up 
shine it up Sparkle it up you do you boo 
you know how you look good I don't need 
to give you advice on that and make sure 
you're in good lighting one thing that I 
see all the time when I do these online 
profile analysis sessions with people 
they hire us for an hour can you go in 
and look at my profile and give me 
counsel because they might not be ready 
to have full coaching at Great okay most 
people have blurry photos photos that 
are old or photos where they have all 
kinds of Shadows on their face I'm like 
look at the photos that we have on our 
site maybe the spirit will call me to 
post some new photos on our website 
we're going to redo our website in 2023 
and I know you guys one of our goals 
we're working on it it's a huge goal but 
I'll tell you what having good photos 
where you look good and you look like 
the real version of yourself we have a 
zero Photoshop policy at our studio at 
smartdating Academy and for the 
thousands of you that have come to us 
and worked with us and taken photos you 
know that there is Art and Science to 
good photography right so look at our 
site see if you can pull photos that 
look like that if you need help for 
God's sakes reach out there is help and 
remember 
give yourself a gift like you give 
everybody else if you've been listening 
to this podcast all year we're almost at 
our year anniversary of the podcast 
right do something good for yourself 
hire experts it might be us it might be 
somebody else I don't care you do you 
but do something that's going to get you 
to a better place this year invest in 
yourself because the definition of 
insanity keep the same pictures up do 
the same stuff over and over again you 
don't want people recognizing your 
photos this is the perfect time to 
completely if we bring It full circle 
have new photos up so they don't think 
the same thing you're thinking when you 
see the guy in the Rudolph hat and right 
it's that's hilarious if you can see my 
face I'm like inhaling oxygen around 
that you don't want to be oh there's 
that woman in the purple sweater again 
yes there she is with their Green 
Earrings like I remember that nope yeah 
yeah let's just pass her bye but the key 
with the photos is approachability and 
we see this too when we do the online 
Photo Labs of so many pictures of people 
wanting to look 
mysterious or sexy and they're pouting 
or they're looking a little bit off to 
the side or they're looking away the 
keys you want to look directly at the 
camera you want to connect with the 
person who's looking at your photo and 
please smile and show your teeth show 
your teeth and smile be warm I'm online 
with our clients every single day going 
through inboxes there are not enough men 
who smile in photos I'm gonna just put 
that out there guys if you're a 
gentlemen did you hear that say it again 
I will tell you the photos our clients 
connect with are the ones where men look 
happy warm safe confident there are so 
many things that come from a smile it's 
the it tells a million different things 
so you want to attract a happy positive 
person into your life you have to be 
that happy positive person in your 
photos do not try to be too sexy don't 
pout 
smile worm smile big look like you are 
smiling at your favorite person on Earth 
and take a picture 
and 
all the research shows that we don't 
pick the best photos of ourselves 
when you take all of the tips that 
Lindsay just gave you 
I would love for you to commit to 
yourself that you are going to take your 
new photos 
and have someone else 
tell you someone that isn't like oh 
honey everything you do is spectacular 
and they never say you know I don't 
think that's the best photo of you have 
your friends better elevator people that 
you love they're in your village that 
also will tell you the honest truth is 
that photo flattering right there are 
times Lindsay and I can we get our 
photos taken and she might say to me I 
hate that photo of myself and I'm like 
no you're like I'm posting it right now 
on our site don't sing it anyway and 
she's like I hate that photo I'm like 
you remember we don't look at ourselves 
in a fair light or more importantly in 
the light that others see us so have 
someone else say that's actually the 
better photo of you because you might be 
looking at some Freckle on your arm that 
no one in the world sees or something on 
your cheek 
everybody's so critical of themselves 
and you we don't want you don't look at 
yourself with a critical mindset too 
100 I'm in our photo studio a lot with 
our clients that come in to work with us 
and I'm not always there but I'm there a 
good amount of time and I can tell you 
everybody's picking apart different 
things in themselves oh my God my legs 
are too white I should have gotten a 
spray tan I'm like your legs look 
amazing I would love to take your legs 
and put them on my body right it's all 
don't pick yourself apart but have great 
photos and please pick new photos of 
yourself change them up because it's the 
new year and why not take some new 
photos of yourself and show someone else 
the photos right and have a good wide 
repertoire don't give someone six photos 
of yourself and say well I need to post 
six photos are these good enough people 
if you're gonna give people choices you 
need to give them more if you want to 
post six photos and six by the way is 
the ideal amount of photos to have 
posted now don't get daunted by that 
don't throw your arms up in the air and 
say well how am I supposed to get six 
new photos you know what everything is 
possible and if you really want to you 
can dress yourself up and say different 
outfits take photos have someone take 
them of you call us we'll get you into 
the photo studio whatever it is 
everything is possible but don't if you 
can get one or two new photos that's 
better than that's great too absolutely 
and make sure and I'll leave with the 
headshots that you do have a good full 
body shots head to toe people do want to 
date who they see in the photos so 
however whatever you do however you wear 
your hair or your glasses just wear 
whatever it is you're how you're going 
to show up on a date look like that 
person in your photos but have fun with 
it 
over the holidays this is a great time 
to take all these pictures get yourself 
ready spruce up your profile think about 
fun things that you did last year little 
weight highlights things that you can 
tweak that you're gonna write be 
positive in what you put out there too 
but remember the photos are first people 
like they go especially well women like 
to analyze the profiles if I'm gonna 
just generalize guys this is not true 
for everybody but we read the profiles 
and analyze who the person is and a lot 
of the men just look at the pictures and 
then skim your profile to make sure you 
sound nice and normal 
that's kind of the way to look at it 
loosely 
exactly and along with that you know 
people will look at photos and we're all 
visual right Lindsay I mean our female 
clients look at male men's photos 
sometimes Grimace like oh my God who 
told this person this was a good photo 
right we all no more fish photos guys no 
more bathroom selfies we've seen it all 
and people just don't know what to do so 
when you look at photos look at it with 
radical empathy like oh bless their 
heart they just didn't know better and 
and move on but 
because with be kind number one be kind 
to yourself be kind to others and when 
you're writing your profile think about 
the little one sentence stories that 
will give somebody food for thought 
about yourself and I've done a lot of 
sessions in the last week with people 
that overthink their profiles well I 
don't know if I want to put that detail 
in there right like I don't know that 
that's like the best thing about me and 
I'm saying I don't real I'm not bothered 
if it tells the full story about you 
because 200 words can never tell the 
full story about you two hours with you 
will never tell the full story about you 
so you want to pick interesting things 
think about your profile as if I had you 
make a top 10 funny quirky things list 
about Lindsay or Bella what would go on 
that list things people might not know 
about me or things that are actually 
interesting that other people haven't 
done that that's how I want you to think 
about your profile and put on position 
starters those kinds of things like 
would you ever think someone who's my 
size you know five two and a half right 
small human small skeleton has taken 
motorcycle riding lessons no you would 
not think that would you ever think that 
I decided one day that I wanted to take 
a flying lesson and I made Andy go with 
me as my co-pilot along with somebody at 
Pewaukee airport no you might go wait 
who's taking flying lessons and who's 
taking motorcycle lessons and almost had 
a permit thank God I found out I was 
pregnant with Jaden and that whole 
motorcycle thing had to be put to bed 
but right you might not know that about 
me but that would be an interesting 
little bit to put in your online profile 
right and Lindsay I'm sure you have 
those fun quirky little things like 
you're a helicopter skier yes 
and there's and I do remember the list 
that came out when Facebook first 
launched a million years ago and 
everybody created the list of 20 things 
about me no one knows 
and then once you start writing a few of 
those it sort of leads to the next so do 
that own version of yourself over the 
holidays just start jotting notes down I 
always have my best thinking when I'm 
blow drying my hair so I keep a bit of 
paper in your body or an iPhone Notes 
but think about as little things come to 
mind jot them down and keep a list and 
you can refresh them but it's really 
conversation starters somebody does not 
need to know your whole life story 
but the profile really does need to be 
about you and then a little bit about 
who you want to meet but the whole 
profile shouldn't be all about 
everything that you want in your future 
person make sure it stays balanced with 
what you write and have fun with it and 
keep it positive and don't put any 
disclaimers at the bottom don't contact 
me if you better look like your pictures 
like none of that guys 
eliminate it because it won't reflect as 
well on you as we think and sometimes we 
want to over correct if we've had 
experiences online before by thinking we 
need to write all the things we don't 
want don't do it don't do it as I saying 
don't write the don'ts don't do the 
don'ts don't do the don'ts I don't do 
the don't don't do the don'ts and and 
have somebody read your profile for your 
tone yes guys tone is so undervalued in 
life okay especially in writing your 
tone carries through 
and many times when we write we go a 
little tone deaf 
or we write quickly in the middle of a 
work day or we don't think about the 
written word people don't hear your 
voice so they interpret whatever it is 
that they're going throughout that time 
with whatever they receive so this goes 
the same for messaging when you are 
messaging back and forth online at an 
exclamation point at don't over Emoji 
don't over smiley face but find ways to 
elevate the tone and look like you're an 
enthusiastic positive person don't write 
one word answers like okay or if he asks 
you out or she asks you on a date don't 
say that sounds good period period 
because everybody wants to date somebody 
who's excited to meet them and when 
you're exchanging messages especially 
once it moves to text messages 
a good way is keep conversation going 
answer with enthusiasm or ask questions 
at the end of your text messages so it's 
a volley back and forth until it goes on 
too long that you can say well really 
enjoy talking with you let's connect 
again tomorrow and then close the chat 
but make sure that your tone comes 
across sometimes if you just read what 
you write out loud to yourself and you 
say it out loud you hear how it might 
come across to others so sometimes you 
might want to reread your own messages 
before you hit send 
100 percent and on that note also when 
you read someone's messages that might 
seem cold Curt abrasive ask yourself 
could this be my filter 
could I be reading this message with the 
tone that wasn't intended 
I do this a lot I will put on a filter 
where I'll read someone's message I'm 
like oh that seemed a little short 
don't do that change your own mindset 
and no I know this person they didn't 
mean that right and if you didn't know 
if you don't know this person give them 
radical empathy and the benefit of the 
doubt they just don't know better and 
they're not wearing your filter so put 
on a different filter when you're 
reading so you want to be the positive 
person but then when you're getting the 
messages 
give somebody the positive filter when 
you're reading their messages okay so I 
think what we want to write in 
skywriting as you're starting the dating 
in this new in the new year is assume 
positive intent assume best intention 
with everything that you do assume it 
when you're looking at their pictures 
online and their profile assume it when 
you're getting that message assume it 
when they're asking you everybody it 
takes a lot of effort and we have 
tremendous empathy it is very brave to 
put yourself on a dating site and every 
single person who's doing it has good 
intentions and I'm telling you there are 
more good daters out there there are 
more good people out there than bad The 
Bad 
really they just make for good stories 
so you might hear those but that's not 
the reality of what we're seeing but I 
love what you're saying that when you 
get a message that might seem a little 
short to look at it through a different 
lens because people's people are good 
people are good everybody yeah and 
nobody means to be that way I know Jaden 
my daughter and I were texting about a 
month ago and she was asking me some 
questions about dating actually and I 
was messaging her back and she said to 
me on Sunday she's like 
are you mad at me like no why she says 
well I just saw your responses and they 
weren't your normal responses my own 
daughter 
asked me if I was mad at her I'm like no 
why and so again was it the way I was 
messaging her or could it have been her 
filter most likely maybe it was some of 
both and I took I said you know what I'm 
really sorry that was so not my 
intention I'm not mad at you at all but 
I'm sorry that I my words made you feel 
that way she's like it's okay and maybe 
I just read it with the wrong eyes right 
take responsibility especially even if 
my intentions weren't that way own your 
stuff yeah 
oh that's such a good point 
so our moods are well yeah listen 
with Peak dating season 
you've got you know two out of three 
Queen psychotic optimists here and we 
Eileen we have you here in spirit with 
us what we want you to know is 
if you feel called to it please reach 
out to us sometimes people think that 
we're they're in an echo chamber and 
we're on some Mountaintop really high 
somewhere and we're inaccessible and 
we're just this voice that comes through 
your air pods or through your iPad or 
passing you in the park when you don't 
have messages when you don't have 
sunglasses and a hat on and you're 
running we're accessible people and we 
have an accessible service and if we can 
help you to 
change your mindset get you better 
photos have some eyes on your profile to 
see that it sounds like you or more 
importantly if you need a personal 
trainer for your love life I'm telling 
you there's no one better and there's no 
one more fun to do this with than with 
us so if you're listening to this 
take a deep breath 
tell yourself I'm worth it I deserve it 
send an email and at least explore how 
we could help you or how somebody could 
help you maybe it's a therapist maybe 
it's whomever do something for yourself 
because you are a gift to the world and 
you deserve all the things that you give 
to others so I wish you only things that 
are good I hope that Lindsay and I get 
to know so many of you during Peak 
dating season because you want the help 
in this process that thousands of you 
have reached out for we're here we're 
not you know are you there God it's me 
no we're here we're real people in the 
flesh in the blood that will keep you on 
the ground boots on the ground doing the 
right thing and staying positive through 
the process yeah encouraging you every 
step of the way really so with that I we 
wish you well we wish you big love this 
week and until next week 
um 
get yourself ready for Peak dating 
season do the right things and we're 
sending you a giant cyber hug because 
I'm really proud of you for thinking 
about being prepared for Peak dating 
season which officially starts December 
26th the busiest online dating date is 
January 8th so ladies and gentlemen get 
it together get your big boy in big girl 
pants on and say I want love for the new 
year and what is something I'm going to 
do for myself every single day to get 
closer to that so with that until next 
week we send you a giant cyber hug mwah 
mwah goodbye goodbye 
