[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I as you know every week I tell 
you I'm so excited because we're going 
to be talking about blah blah blah this 
week again as true to Bella Gandhi I am 
super excited and psychotically 
optimistic to talk to you about dating 
and anxiety two things that typically go 
hand in hand if you have a pulse and 
you've ever been on a date don't tell me 
you haven't had a little bit of anxiety 
or a hell of a lot of anxiety and so 
today I'm bringing you one of my 
partners in crime my colleagues in love 
Eileen Collins so many of you know 
Eileen she's been working with Smart 
dating Academy for over a year and a 
half if you heard the Nazi's 
granddaughter Sylvia foti and the glove 
and the this and that that was Eileen 
the coaster you're going to hear Sugar's 
love story that was Eileen the coacher 
so there's no one better to have on here 
to talk about how to handle dating and 
anxiety because Eileen in her nighttime 
Moonlighting life is also a mental 
health coach so Eileen I am so happy to 
Dive Right into this with you thank you 
for being here I am so excited because 
um first of all I love working with you 
Bella it's not even work it's just fun 
yay and 
anxiety plagues gosh most people at 
different times right I mean everybody 
knows what it nobody says I'm anxious 
and someone near them says what do you 
mean or what is that I don't know I've 
never been anxious are you getting like 
right identified 
so and dating right when people 
especially how many times have you heard 
I'm getting back into dating right and 
I'm so anxious about it it really does 
go hand in hand it's like what we do is 
half of mitigating anxiety helping 
people with anxiety and guys listen 
anxiety is not a bad thing we're wired 
to have some sort of fear if we didn't 
we would have been asleep at the wheel 
when the saber-toothed tiger was coming 
at us right and I think the CEO of Intel 
back in the day Andrew Grove said only 
the paranoids survive in the world right 
so anxiety is meant to keep us on our 
A-game but what we want you to do is not 
have that bad anxiety while you're 
dating that either makes you shut down 
the app and think that you could never 
date because you're too scared of the 
rejection scared of what if they don't 
like me scared of how am I going to exit 
this date if it's not going well so what 
we want to talk about today is those 
types of anxieties and giving you some 
tools some tips some hacks to navigate 
that anxiety and I'll open it up with 
anxiety begins in one place it begins in 
our minds 
so the thing is is this 
we're typically not anxious about 
something currently happening do you 
know what I mean yes currently happening 
could be that you know alarming and we 
typically we spring into action actually 
so anxious us 
is about the future right it's something 
that hasn't happened but that we're 
concerned about maybe we've written a 
story about how it will be or what our 
barriers are going to be 
I was working with one of our clients 
today and 
she had gone back and forth with really 
phenomenal messaging with somebody she 
hasn't met and so I said you know 
let's do a message and and 
suggest a video date let's move this on 
right and she's like oh I'm not ready 
I'm not ready it's the story she was 
telling herself right okay 
but she's with me to get to the date 
and so they've been writing each other 
it's been a week or so maybe a little 
longer lots of message so she was 
telling herself I'm not ready feeling a 
lot of anxiety 
and did you get her to set up the video 
date well we we certainly sent out an 
invitation or several with other people 
she was corresponding with as well yeah 
we and I said 
why do you think you're not ready when 
you're here to you thought when you 
contacted me did our jump start and all 
the things you were ready to date right 
you were ready to meet someone and you 
described him who you'd love to meet 
and this is the predate like we we 
recommend the video chat right 
always 
can get you out of a many a situation 
and into many good ones and can reduce 
anxiety so 
as you know 
anxiety kind of we are we say often in 
the mental health coaching it lives in 
the future 
so one of the ways to kind of combat 
that is to get very purposefully and 
intentionally present 
I love that I love that and how do we 
how do we get into the present that's a 
great quote you know I I would say and 
if you're feeling anxious you're either 
living in the future 
or you're living in the past 
you can't be in this present moment and 
be anxious about this moment so use that 
as a check-in mechanism you guys if 
you're feeling anxious ask yourself am I 
living in my past or am I living in my 
fortune telled future at this point 
because it can't be about the right now 
right 
now how do we stop that well for most 
people are patterns of thinking the 
messages we tell ourselves 
our habits actually that behavior is a 
habit which is good and bad the good 
news is it's a behavior meaning we can 
work with that right we can work with 
that we can bring in some new behaviors 
the hard part is it's like saying I put 
my slippers on the right side of the bed 
for 30 years someone just suggested the 
left how often are you going to go to 
the wrong side 
a lot in the beginning in the beginning 
a lot and then eventually 
less and less 
exactly 
so similar 
someone maybe has a habit of thinking in 
the future fortune telling how it's 
going to be getting pretty anxious 
or maybe plagued with something from the 
past and ruminating so getting present 
can be as simple as intentionally 
noticing your surroundings or sometimes 
we'll suggest stimulating as many senses 
as you can I'll tell people can you walk 
away for a minute can you step outside 
just listen to the sounds of your 
outside 
smell what it smells like look around 
notice as much as you can and in that 
minute 
you can reset 
and get present and that's how you get 
present stimulate as many of your senses 
as you can maybe you're listening to 
this and you're driving right now what 
could you do you could really be 
listening to this podcast word for word 
you could open your window you could 
feel the wind on your face you could 
feel the sunlight in your eyes you can 
feel the grip of the road you can look 
at the sign you've just passed with new 
eyes maybe you've looked at it a 
thousand times and you're like wow I 
didn't realize that that font was red on 
there but really stimulating all of your 
senses to get in this moment it's like 
you're forcing your brain into what is 
happening around me right freaking now 
have you ever noticed 
back when we played sports right or 
maybe even recently like you played ping 
pong or pickleball or tennis or whatever 
you are really present you're in that 
game right I mean and especially if 
you're competitive and I think I am not 
necessarily good but competitive for 
sure like I want to win and so you can't 
think of anything else you're not in the 
future you're not you're right in it 
right 100 that's another way to get 
present we'll say to people can you get 
active get out of your head 
into your body 
take the long walk run on the treadmill 
do the elliptic you know take a class 
whatever 
and that's a great anxiety reducer too 
um I if I think working out for me is as 
much for my mental health as it is for 
my physical health because once you 
really get your heart pumping and you've 
got those beta endorphins it's like 
you're pushing good mood through you 
right like you can't kind of be in a 
sour dour mood because you've just 
filled yourself up with good chemicals 
through working out and which calm you 
and may put you in a more positive 
mindset there's a lot of reasons it 
happens 
the endorphins there's a lot of physical 
things happening 
and we know you know through like 
triangle breathing or Square breathing 
that you know scientifically someone can 
bring down like their central nervous 
system from like really rapid possible 
just bring it down a little bit 
similarly like walking getting in your 
body besides the physical benefit 
mentally for most people if they're 
taking in their surroundings and maybe 
pushing themselves a little bit 
they'll get present they'll just be very 
present about what they're trying to do 
exactly I love that and you know I know 
we jumped ahead a little bit with this 
but this is a really tactical thing 
Eileen just brought up about the story 
of her coaching a client today in the 
client saying I'm not ready with the 
message and she's like okay well let's 
do a video date doing video dates is one 
of the greatest things that has come out 
of coven covid sucked it's horrible 
but the fact that every site and every 
app built vindi video into its interface 
so often we have imagined anxiety based 
on our past what if this person is super 
boring what if I can't escape this state 
it's been three hours I'm having a 
terrible time what if this person 
doesn't look like their photos what if 
and all the what ifs again were 
projecting into the future based on 
something bad that might have happened 
in the past right so what you can do 
with video is put all those fears to 
rest say hey before we meet out for a 
date how would you like to meet for a 
cup of coffee and let's just do a quick 
video date or a glass of wine whatever 
your jam put boundaries around it five 
to five thirty okay so you don't feel 
pressured and anxious about how you're 
gonna end that video date half an hour 
can be on the high side right you might 
know enough in 50 10 minutes to go this 
is amazing or hoof you know what that 
person's photos were 20 years 50 pounds 
and 20 teeth ago not sure not sure this 
is my jam right okay and no harm no foul 
you didn't drive anywhere you probably 
you know 
100 they don't know your last name if 
you haven't given it to them you can end 
the date whenever you want by pressing 
end right you don't have to meet someone 
in a neighborhood you're not familiar 
with right and the stakes are lower yeah 
we consider this like our natural 
screening in a way we're hoping that 
everybody's great and we're screening in 
but it can be like almost a to us a 
mandatory step don't you think it should 
be a mandatory step so not only will 
this help to mitigate your anxiety of 
what if it's not a great day but now 
what if it is a good date and suddenly 
you're going to be like oh my gosh we 
had such a fun video chat I'm excited to 
meet this person out for pizza next 
Thursday now what have you done that 
cute little step of the video date has 
not only 
assuaged all of your you know maybe 
insane fears of what this person might 
show up to be and and you're like wow 
that was actually fun and cool and oh my 
gosh I can do this and that video date 
helps you to build that connection and 
lower your anxiety so it's win win 
it's wonderful it's such a great idea I 
think both sides the other thing that we 
don't realize is the other side may have 
anxiety often does about it too every 
everybody's hoping the same thing here's 
the good news 
everybody's hoping it's good 
everyone involved is hoping it goes well 
so there's that 
the story you tell yourself right 
I always tell people 
we do so much self-messaging we can be a 
judge a little judge's robe or we can be 
a cheerleader but we're typically one or 
the other and so have you ever heard 
somebody say 
um 
I will be happy this could be me I'll be 
happy when I lose 15 pounds that's a way 
you could say something 
but it's almost like saying I won't be 
happy until I lose you know and with me 
that 15 pounds is gonna be a slow thing 
that could be years who wants to plan 
not to be happy but that kind of 
messaging in a way 
we'd love to shift that right totally to 
just like yeah I'm really doing some 
work I'm working on losing that 15 doing 
some stuff 
but I'll be happy in the process because 
right now yeah because frankly most of 
life isn't about the end goal being 
achieved right it's like if you climb up 
a mountain it's not that moment that's 
going to be everything in your memory 
it's going to be all the steps on that 
perilous Journey that got you there that 
are going to make you go oh my gosh I 
did it and that was so amazing and it's 
always about the journey so 
um Bella Gandhi can make people enjoy a 
perilous Journey 
you were like a perilous journey and I'm 
like oh my God she's right but it's 
right it is the journey right 
life it's all about the journey right 
and what makes up our memories right 
it's like at the end of our life it's we 
have our memories right and the memories 
are about the journey to getting to the 
place where we were where we are at that 
moment so I think that 
um you know I I love 
getting out of our own heads and looking 
at am I being a judge or am I being a 
cheerleader for myself and cheerlead 
yourself and just say it's okay to be a 
little nervous but you know what I think 
I'm actually just excited about this I'm 
excited to go out and here's a hack that 
just came to me because during Eileen 
and I we of course prepped for you guys 
and prepped for this podcast but this 
one just came to mind years ago I had a 
client who said I but I I like and she's 
a senior vice president at a very big 
real estate company high up super 
successful Alpha but when it comes to 
dating lots of anxiety and she'd had 
some trauma in the past and so I said to 
her I said I'm gonna give you a way to 
look at this when you get to a date I 
want you to think tell yourself that 
you're going to meet your best friend's 
new boyfriend 
and she was like 
oh my God keep talking I said when you 
get to the date just think about your 
best friend's name is Anne Jane and now 
Ann Jane has this new boyfriend named 
Mark and you're gonna go in and you're 
just excited because Mark's gonna be in 
your life and he's your best friend's 
boyfriend and you just want to get to 
know him he's not a threat he already 
likes you because he knows you're the 
best friend and so that little hack 
change the way that she dated she's like 
oh my God my best friend's new boyfriend 
that's how she went into every date and 
she would tell herself that and it 
totally relaxed her from putting that 
Spotlight on herself am I good enough am 
I going to be a good enough dater is he 
gonna like me am I gonna like him how am 
I going to get out of this if I don't 
instead when you say I'm going to meet 
my best friend's new boyfriend you 
suddenly are excited Bella you kind of 
said the magic words in a way 
the focus on ourselves right it I tell 
clients all the time 
if you can turn the camera around right 
and focus it outward 
I had a friend tell me once 
with great intentions it changed my life 
I think I was talking about being 
anxious about something and she said 
listen 
you're only the star of your own movie 
and she was right she was right people 
are worried about themselves they're not 
laser focused on you 
turning the camera 
around from the focus on yourself 
coming and looking with curiosity about 
the other person 
that's just a gift right that's of 
course you're going to be anxious if 
you're just kind of spotlights on me 
exactly and then you've got the judges 
robon and you're looking at yourself 
going hey don't up this up oh that 
wasn't cool that you said that instead 
here's another easy hack to think about 
and these are easy check-ins if you are 
feeling anxious and nervous while you're 
sitting in the presence of someone else 
you've put that camera back on your own 
face and in the date I want you to turn 
that camera around to the person sitting 
across from you your goal for this date 
is twofold okay if you experience dating 
anxiety you just tell yourself I'm going 
to have fun by making my date feel good 
in my presence 
now how do you make somebody feel good 
in your presence like Eileen said you 
get curious about them you are sincerely 
from your pinky toe all the way up to 
your baby hairs interested in this 
person what makes them tick what is 
their story how did they get to this 
spot right and when you are genuinely 
curious genuinely wanting this person to 
feel accepted by you feel good in your 
presence you will be sincerely curious 
about them almost like a journalist 
you're going to want to know everything 
and you know what if you are feeling 
nervous about yourself 
you're not fully invested in the other 
person you are not you cannot do two 
things at the same time you cannot be 
anxious about your own performance if 
you are truly invested in the person on 
the other side of the table 
exactly Bella 
we just talked about this right before 
but 
what type of listening do you recommend 
this is my little hack to myself 
I have a little Post-it on my computer 
and it says listen to understand 
it is a very different way you guys of 
listening and it cues me when I read 
listen to understand most of us listen 
half-heartedly 
we listen to speak over somebody we 
listen to respond 
instead when you go into listening to 
understand mode you will never cut 
somebody off 
in fact you will be when I tell myself 
Bella listen to understand all of a 
sudden it puts me into this I want to 
know you like no no you I want to 
understand your why I want to understand 
what your intentions are with every 
statement you make I want to drill more 
into that because I want to understand 
you and it makes me a better 
conversationalist because if I 
understand you better I'm gonna be a 
better day to you because I can ask you 
questions that light you up like a 
chandelier that are relevant that are 
different than what anybody else is 
going to ask you because most of those 
people not like us smart daters are 
listening to respond but when you listen 
to understand it's like 
[Music] 
Bella that's everything and at the worst 
you will have made a special connection 
a very special connection maybe they're 
the love of your life maybe not but this 
piece of advice can change the way you 
interact with people and the way they 
feel in your presence 
period 
the man is about listening to respond 
often we're doing it not if I have it 
but because 
we're anxious because we want the other 
person to like us and the joke is 
they will 
if you let them feel your curiosity and 
your connection 
that's so true and people they say one 
of the most seductive things you can do 
is truly listen to somebody because most 
of us aren't truly listened to by 
anybody right and when when you have 
someone that's giving you that wrapped 
attention what's better than that where 
they say you know love them or hate him 
when people will always say if you're 
talking to Bill Clinton he will make you 
feel like you were the only person in 
the room because he is laser focused on 
you and listening to understand you it's 
not eye contact who doesn't everybody 
has good eye contact but why is he 
really well known for that because he 
puts his attention straight on to you 
and you can feel that and that is what 
you too dear listener can do and you 
don't have to wait until you're on a 
date to do this maybe you can call your 
best friend tonight and just experiment 
with listening to understand it's like 
wow how did you feel when your mom said 
that to you 
I love it all of your relationships 
can be that deep we get every 
conversation 
doesn't have to be a deep dive but 
listening like that is still a game 
changer right listening really listening 
and 
being able to kind of be yourself right 
show up authentically 
interested I don't typically talk myself 
into being interested I actually am 
curious 
you are very curious you're such a great 
conversationalist right because you 
always want to know more about the 
person 
a little Mrs Kravitz from Bewitched you 
know like the nosy neighbor and me I'm 
definitely curious 
which is why coaching was a good fit 
and curiosity is everything and again 
when you're genuinely curious what can 
you not be you cannot be anxious at the 
same time 
right and and gosh I wish I knew this 
stuff when I was back in the dating 
world and you can use the stuff you guys 
even when you're making a new friend 
girls when you're going to meet a new 
potential girlfriend out for a brunch 
you're walking into your kids school 
meetings if you're going to a job 
interview these are all wonderful things 
if you number one expect acceptance you 
will be accepted I want you to I want to 
tell you about this Mantra I use it I 
have talked to my husband Andy about it 
when he's nervous I was telling Eileen 
my girlfriend Anna Valencia is running 
for Secretary of State and we had this 
conversation five years ago and she's 
like well I'm walking into this room and 
these people are all older than me and 
they're more experienced and they're you 
know Big Time politicians I said sweet 
girl I want you to expect acceptance in 
every room you walk into for the rest of 
your life 
and she's like I walk in with my head 
high every single time and pause to 
yourself before you walk into a room and 
say expect acceptance and it will change 
the way you feel in that moment my 
husband does it he says it's changed his 
game he's in venture capital and he's 
meeting people all the time but when you 
expect acceptance 
it automatically means I can't be 
anxious about whether you like me or not 
because I already am assuming best 
intentions you are going to accept me 
exactly best intention thinking biggest 
game changer by it by the way it helps 
avoid fights that are just simply 
misunderstandings and no not at all 
necessary best intention thinking 
expecting acceptance 
just the best advice at all I think for 
dating it just puts you in a mindset 
where people are drawn to that right 
100 
and you know if you 
if you think about all the things we're 
saying they might sound common sense but 
I promise you take notes look at the 
show notes the things that we're telling 
you to do if you start to implement them 
in your life they will change your life 
they will change the way you date they 
will change the way you interact with 
yourself and therefore the way you 
interact with other people and and now 
we can get into brass tax okay we've 
given you a lot of Mind hacks right turn 
the mirror outwards you're not focused 
on yourself you're focused on the other 
person having fun expect acceptance 
assume best intentions right get 
yourself moving get yourself into a 
positive frame of mind now okay I'll 
tell you one of the things that we do 
all the time at Smart dating Academy is 
we help our clients get prepared for 
dates just like you would get prepared 
for a job interview 
would you ever walk into a job interview 
cold let's say you've you know been at 
the same job for 15 years or five years 
right you wouldn't just expect to walk 
in and wing it you'd be like wow I 
better freshen up and look at my resume 
and know that for every bullet point on 
there I need to have a good story that 
tells a good story from the beginning 
the middle and the end wow and I know in 
all job interviews they're going to ask 
me what's your greatest strength what's 
your greatest weakness why did you leave 
your job you're not going to walk in if 
you have any common sense at all trying 
to Wing that stuff right because that 
stuff doesn't work so on a date do the 
same things prepare for the date even if 
it's the video date think about the most 
common questions people ask and if you 
guys need to go back to the episode I 
did with Danielle robay that talks about 
dating questions to ask think about 
where did you grow up how many siblings 
do you have are you close to your family 
what do you do for work where do you 
want to be in five years or ten years 
what are your the best podcasts you're 
listening to what are your hobbies right 
the basic questions be prepared know how 
to talk about yourself in an interesting 
way and be prepared for someone to say 
what are you looking for 
absolutely what are you looking for why 
are you here prepare for these questions 
prepare for the harder questions like 
wow 
why did you get divorced 
why have you never been married okay 
let's just go there people bless their 
hearts we'll ask those questions not 
trying to be offensive again go back to 
what Eileen taught me today assume best 
intentions thinking that person is not 
asking you a question to be obnoxious or 
to put you on the spot they genuinely 
don't know why have you never been 
married they want to know they're 
assuming you're an amazing person and 
that's a choice that you've made right 
and they want you yeah they want you to 
to say something that that reassures 
them that they're right you are amazing 
oh good right yeah they wanted a good 
answer have a good answer and a genuine 
sincere answer for that right and this 
is the stuff that we work on all the 
time in date coaching right we are in 
the weeds like Eileen says we're in your 
inboxes we're helping you to message 
helping you to take it to video dates if 
you need help you've got both of us here 
to support you we're here don't think 
you have to suffer through this is alone 
dating can be fun and it can be less 
anxiety provoking so many people like oh 
my God I didn't know I could actually do 
this and work with you of course you can 
reach out anytime there is always a way 
to be better and to have more fun doing 
something right and to be more 
successful so prepare for your date if 
you need a session where you can mock 
date we'll do that with you we'll help 
you to role play and tell you yeah that 
answer sounded good or oof I think your 
body language in that is not being 
authentic I don't think you're coming 
across the way you want to but get 
prepared role play with a friend hire 
someone to do this who's going to be 
objective get yourself feeling really 
good because preparation leads to what 
lower anxiety because you're feeling 
confident because you're like been there 
done that anything that we do 
repetitively are we anxious at it no 
because we know how to do this and 
we get better we get better and better 
at it 
amen right practice practice and 
practice practice doing the video date 
practice with a friend if you've been 
out of the dating world for a while ask 
them how do I look on video how's my 
audio does my background look like that 
does it look clean does it look 
organized or do I look like a hoarder 
right what what do I look like we might 
have been having conversations about 
orders before this podcast today so take 
take a look at your background have 
somebody who's going to give you an 
objective feedback say you know what 
that looks really warm and inviting and 
like it matches your Vibe have someone 
give you that feedback to build your 
confidence and when your confidence is 
high what is that the reciprocal of 
anxiety 
that's just the best advice honestly 
it's true it's true we're here your 
friends are here get your tribe you know 
Circle the tribe and 
build up your confidence practice you 
know do some role playing so that you 
can and be prepared as Bella said 
they're going to ask those questions you 
might as well have acted like you've 
thought about it and have they answered 
that you feel the best about 
exactly exactly and you can even prepare 
and lower your anxiety by having five 
questions in your back pocket that 
you're going to ask if the conversation 
gets to that weird pregnant pause we're 
like I don't have anything to say I 
always call those having jump start 
questions it's like jump starting your 
car with jumper cables right when the 
car doesn't start you've got the jumper 
cables in the back have your jumper 
cable questions with you so that you're 
not afraid of what's going to happen if 
the conversation Falls flat because you 
are prepared these are all the little 
hacks that will help you with lowering 
your dating anxiety right you're 
expecting acceptance you're going out to 
meet your best friend's new boyfriend or 
girlfriend you've got three jump start 
questions in your back pocket in case 
the conversation goes flat you know 
you're going to be accepted how can this 
date go bad it can't you're in the 
driver's seat the day can go bad because 
that person might have red flagged 
themselves that person might not be who 
you expect okay that's fine but from 
your own anxiety standpoint you've done 
everything you can to prepare 
and it is just that how can we enjoy the 
dating process is by combating the 
anxiety it's happening typically well 
before any date 
and so that we want you to just enjoy 
the process not just meet someone 
amazing which we also want and we want 
you to be able to show up as your 
amazing self 
100 and so 
let me tell you you might be listening 
to this and you might be saying well you 
don't know me I'm shy 
I'm an introvert I don't know what to 
say I'm just anxious I don't like being 
the only person in a room that doesn't 
know someone I don't want to go to new 
parties but I'm going to tell you 
shyness and introversion is no excuse 
for not being able 
to do these things that we're talking 
about sometimes we conveniently can hide 
behind those labels I'm shy I'm an 
introvert let me tell you what making 
dating conversation having small talk 
that is a muscle nobody's born with that 
muscle some of us exercise that muscle 
more than others and we get used to it 
like Eileen was saying instead of 
putting your slippers on the left side 
of the bed you're going to put your 
right slippers on the right side of the 
bed you're going to start to build that 
muscle and one of the best ways you guys 
to start building that muscle if you 
call yourself shy or an introvert or 
you're not good at Small Talk guess what 
it is exposure therapy okay start making 
small talk talk to the cashier at the 
grocery store talk to the person sitting 
next to you on the bus or the plane 
start making conversation with the 
person behind you in the grocery line 
it's like oh my gosh you have three 
different kinds of mustard you must love 
mustard right just funny easy things 
because the more you do these little 
things the less you're going to say I'm 
shy I don't know what to say I can't 
make small talk because I want you to 
practice that muscle 
I love that you said the I don't know 
what to say 
because it brings us all the way back to 
be curious about them turn the lens on 
them 
you'll learn what to say because if 
you're truly curious about them you 
would be asking about that whole mustard 
situation 
100 
and 
one of the ways to not lower your dating 
anxiety I don't know if that was just a 
double negative you guys don't drink too 
much on these dates okay I have seen 
many a story I've started Smart dating 
Academy 13 years ago right and I know 
what happens when we might feel anxious 
and that first glass of wine goes down 
really fast because maybe we're thirsty 
and maybe we're not that hydrated and 
maybe we're a little nervous right and 
then we order that second glass and then 
that second glass is before you even 
have ordered dinner right and then maybe 
we get into the third and then we start 
to get a little sloppy the way to handle 
anxiety is not medicating it with 
alcohol and drinking too much because 
then you know what you're gonna do 
you're gonna potentially red flag 
yourself you're gonna say stuff that's 
not appropriate for the first second or 
third date and worst of all you're not 
going to remember exactly what that 
person said 
and you may make them question things 
right like oh that was a I would not 
want someone to think 
like that was a lot of wine on a first 
date because it's a first date right 
yeah 
100 and you don't want to be that girl 
or that guy I have had clients when they 
will say on a two-hour date so and so 
date had seven drinks they're like is 
that weird I'm like that's really weird 
right even having seven pellegrinos or 
seven Diet Cokes is still a little weird 
pace yourself right would you do it on a 
job interview if the answer is no don't 
do it on a date 
especially First Dates especially first 
and second you know beginning dates 
and if you're having dating anxiety okay 
let's say you've done that video date 
okay now you're going to do an in-person 
date instead of agreeing to meet for a 
four hour date put boundaries around it 
if somebody's like would you want to 
meet for dinner just say oh Thursday 
dinner gosh I've got plans already at 
eight o'clock but how about we meet for 
a drink and an appetizer from six to 
seven thirty right now you've 
automatically done what put boundaries 
around it what is that going to do to 
your anxiety lower it because in 90 
minutes you can duck out and even if the 
date's going really well an hour and 45 
minutes later you leave that person 
wanting more saying oh I don't want to 
leave this is so much fun can we do this 
again soon perfect so good yes yeah 
Eileen do you have any last parting 
words of wisdom for our listener 
I think you did you it was great I think 
I hope 
I think so too 
I think we we've emptied our brains on 
you guys today about dating anxiety and 
remember we gave you a lot of 
information if you even do two to three 
of these things you're going to lower 
your anxiety because ultimately guys I 
will tell you what we want for you at 
Smart dating Academy besides finding the 
lid to your pot you know what we want 
you to do we want you to have fun along 
the way and what we've told you is going 
to help you to do just that to have more 
fun to be a more fun date and to get 
better dates and to be more successful 
at this so until next week I wish you 
happiness success and a whole cup full 
of lower anxiety 
