[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find l 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to this week's podcast and 
we are going to talk about the real 
reason real relationships fail and I 
have with us an amazing guest that we've 
been talking before we got recording I'm 
like oh my God I just want to jump 
through the screen and like go have you 
know a cup of coffee with you Dr Abby 
medcap so I'm going to call you Abby 
she's a psychologist a relationship 
Maven an author a podcast host a tedex 
speaker who's helped thousands of people 
to think differently so they can create 
connection ease and joy in their 
relationships with the people you want 
but also with yourself so Abby welcome 
to the Smart dating Academy thank you so 
excited to be here I can't right we were 
already vibing so I'm ready to let's 
let's change lives okay let's change 
lives 
go what's the real reason relationships 
fail let's go there let's jump in the 
and because you know for years I've been 
doing this now 40 years you know working 
with people in various settings and uh I 
always 
hear the number one problem in my 
relationship is communication that's 
right that's what people say and I have 
to tell them that's not correct that 
that that the number one problem in your 
relationship when you get into a 
relationship with someone the biggest 
problem is actually 
competition so as we I know at we keep 
score we keep score so even in the very 
early dating right did what did he text 
me last do I text him did uh someone pay 
or not pay did like we're keeping score 
we're keeping score we're watching what 
they're doing deciding what we do we 
think about well I don't want to say I 
love you first I want I want them to say 
I love you first we I mean over and over 
and then when you get in the 
relationship well oh you went out with 
your friends on Friday so I get to go 
out with my friends on Saturday you 
spent money on this so I get to spend 
money on this when you have kids later 
you know it's like you took Sophie to 
baseball on Monday I have you know I'll 
take Jack to piano on Friday like there 
I'm telling you it is we compete for 
time we compete for love like who's 
showing it who's not how and it's that 
is the problem when you are with someone 
you are on the same team it is one team 
it is a shared battery and if you start 
seeing someone as comp and it especially 
happens when we're dating we we're 
guarding our hearts we're waiting 
there's a lot of waiting I've found with 
my clients oh yeah I mean first of all 
when you said competition it's the first 
time I've heard it so explicitly and and 
at first when you said it I thought huh 
how so and then when you say it you boil 
it down it's so true even I've been 
having conversations with my clients 
this week about well I make more money 
than he does I feel like he's getting an 
upgraded life if he with me I'm like oh 
[ __ ] it's all a competition I can say 
I've been guilty of it in my own 27 year 
marriage like I'm doing more across the 
board I'm leading I'm making money I am 
taking my kids I take the emotional load 
and I get resentful sometimes and when 
you said that I was like oh my God M 
drop okay 
who you so think of that right think of 
how that shows up over and over how even 
the I love the money one because I get 
that too you know dealing with people I 
I always say this to to women especially 
I think we're mostly talking to women 
although I know men listen and they out 
there 
too when you make a list this is anybody 
when you make a list of your perfect 
person right here's my dream 
person no woman I've ever met has Ms the 
lawn well on there makes even how much M 
Sometimes women you know people will put 
makes x amount of dollars they will but 
it's not usually the first thing and if 
it is you're in some trouble and you 
know that but even if it makes the list 
so what do we have on that list right we 
have qualities we have always has my 
back you I hope you have that by the way 
um you know even when we fight uh I know 
that they respect me um they always 
speak in a loving often speak in a 
loving tone you know we fight fair we we 
they're compassionate uh they they I 
know that I'm number one in their Liv so 
they think of me first what right these 
are the things we write down but then we 
start getting weird the competition 
phase we don't that's not what we're 
looking at so when you think of that I 
have a great this story where my tire 
was flat of my car right and New York 
City girl I was like I didn't understand 
really how to fix that I didn't know you 
just put air in it I I didn't know you 
just put air in the tire I didn't even 
know and Gary's like you know you need 
to get that you know it's unsafe to 
drive he kept kind of reminding me and 
he was getting upset like you can't keep 
driving with this low air on your tire 
what is wrong with you and then one day 
I came out and the tire was full and I 
was and I acted like he split the atom 
you don't even know like I I thought 
this was the biggest thing that ever 
could have been done right now how long 
did that take him not very long but and 
I said to him oh my God thank you so I 
was like tripping over myself with 
gratitude because I was so overwhelmed 
with this silly task I didn't understand 
and he I said what made you do it he 
said you know I started remembering how 
confident you are he goes you are like 
the most productive person I know and 
one of the most confident people I know 
so I knew if you weren't doing it you 
probably didn't know how easy it was to 
get done like you didn't get it and I 
realized all the times I was telling you 
to do it I could just go do it for you 
and so I just did it and that is 
value that is more right that is more 
than how much money he makes how much he 
cleans the K gets the kitchen counter 
perfect you know doesn't yeah when he's 
cleaned the bathroom he's left the full 
garbage can because he somehow didn't 
notice it you know because this is what 
happened you know and this but we 
Overlook these things all the time and 
I'm going to talk about why from a brain 
perspective because when you see okay 
let's just go there you realize when you 
realize why you think you're seeing 
something and you're not and there's 
there's really three things at play the 
first thing is something called our 
reticular activating system or Ras for 
short and this is part of your brain 
everybody has it the base the four basal 
ganglia blah blah blah your R is a 
filter between your conscious and your 
subconscious Brains it's there for the 
brain's efficiency so it everyone knows 
what this is it sends messages from your 
conscious to your subconscious things 
you're thinking about it tells your 
subconscious to look for it and everyone 
knows if they've ever thought of buying 
a new car you see the car everywhere you 
know what I'm say like just thinking 
about the car you're like oh my God 
there's white BMWs everywhere that you 
whatever you liked that's all you see 
that is your R because what it did it 
took something consciously thinking 
about I like the white Tesla and it sent 
it as an order or an instruction to your 
subconscious to look for white Teslas is 
trying to be economical right and so if 
you think there's no good men in New 
York all the good men are all all the 
men are [ __ ] in New York if you are 
thinking that guess what you're you're 
RIS your conscious sends that to as a 
message to your subconscious to look for 
men 
acting 
poorly and not only will it only show 
you Icky men this is the scariest part 
your R will filter out anything that 
doesn't match again in the in the name 
of efficiency and economy so anytime a 
man is really kind maybe some guy opens 
the door for you on your way into a 
Starbucks or something right you don't 
even notice him he does not exist for 
you he's not here in the world you only 
because your RS has told you that these 
men don't count and I can't tell you how 
many couples sessions I have sat in and 
I and she is saying you don't appreciate 
me and he 
goes oh my God last night I told I 
thanked you three times for dinner he 
said I you know I picked up the dry 
cleaning on the way home because you had 
at you know without you asking sorry and 
I took you for your birthday we went to 
a thing and she goes literally I've had 
this and she'll say yeah well that but 
you really don't appreciate me that's 
the RAS and everyone listening has had a 
moment of this where they the the proof 
comes in and you you're like Teflon for 
it you don't hear it you don't see it 
that way and you think you're seeing the 
truth but you're actually seeing a 
skewed version of what your brain will 
allow and so this reticular activation 
system is that right activating system 
yes activating system so it's in your 
prefrontal cortex like it's in your 
conscious brain it it's not not where it 
seats in the brain but it it's how it 
works it it's taking these messages from 
your from your conscious brain from 
things you think and it is sending them 
to your subconscious and we all know 
right our subconscious is really in 
charge and drives everything we do I 
think everybody kind of knows that by 
now so you're oh well and let me tell 
you another piece please this is like 
this is a research by Timothy Wilson 
who's one of my favorite researchers and 
um Malcolm Gladwell loves him too so 
he's become very famous since Gladwell 
started writing about him but uh his 
research shows that your conscious brain 
processes information at a rate of 40 
bits per second while your 
subconscious processes information at a 
rate of 11 million bits per second 
so people yes so people don't hear what 
you say they hear what you 
mean so when you're on a date and you 
think uh oh I'm so nervous I'm anxious 
is he going to like me I don't know is 
she going to think I'm handsome or oh 
God I got to talk about you know this 
thing or I've been divorced twice and I 
don't want to talk about it whatever 
you've got on your brain okay what 
happens is you sit down but consciously 
you're like okay this is gonna be great 
and we're gonna get really get along and 
I'm really you know you've probably 
pumped them up and they're ready to go 
right and they sit down but that 11 
million the doubt the worry the anxiety 
if that is an all there truly there 
that's what the other person picks up on 
so you're saying all the right things 
and they're hearing them but they're 
getting a funny feeling they're they're 
getting a it doesn't match right they're 
getting these words that seem like 
you're you're together and whatever but 
you're hiding something clearly and I 
can't tell you how many men and women 
I've had say to me yeah you know he or 
she was really nice on the date it went 
well but I don't know there was 
something I feel like there was 
something and like that they were hiding 
I hear that a lot by the way and and 
this is it you're not hi they're not 
hiding necessarily anything but they are 
that you're picking up on the 11 million 
bits every one has walked down the 
street and seen something somebody 
coming at them really women I should say 
have seen someone coming at them and you 
got a funny feeling and you like moved 
your pocketbook to the other side or you 
you know crossed the street they didn't 
say anything to you they maybe not even 
looked at you but you had a feeling 
that's the 11 million bits you know if 
someone in the office is talking gr and 
saying all these wonderful things and 
you're like that guy's full of crap you 
know like I don't believe a word they 
say 11 million bits your 11 million is 
always operating so if you're not fully 
aligned if your belief system is there's 
no good people out there no one's going 
to really want me because of X Y and 
Z uh uh all men suck all women are gold 
diggers whatever any belief you know and 
which is just a thought you've had over 
and over which I know you teach you know 
it's just a thought you're having over 
and over it's not true but any belief 
you have like that your subconscious is 
driving that feeling associated with it 
we feel the way we think so anywhere 
that that's a thought those feelings are 
present and people pick up on the energy 
and so before you go on any date before 
you walk in with anybody it's not just 
about hyping yourself up which is a nice 
thing to do of course it is about truly 
aligning what you believe with you know 
what you're what you're walking into 
but I think people are often you 
probably experience this don't you find 
that a lot of times people are like 
afraid to 
Hope yeah because they don't want the 
disappointment afterwards right right 
they and 
so let's say you are an anxious person 
and let's say you have these messages my 
picker is bad I'm not going I'm too old 
I'm not attractive enough now you know 
you're hyped up and you've put your good 
playlist on and you've got your red 
lipstick on and you you know you're 
you're feeling you're you're doing 
everything you can so what you're saying 
is if you actually are thinking to 
yourself I'm not good enough I don't 
know if this person's going to like me 
that's what they're going to pick up on 
y so there's going to be dissonance yes 
like something was just a little yeah 
little off person yep and and you felt 
it yourself on your date right you've 
been there you've been sitting there any 
of your clients or people listening it's 
like I've been on this date and I we 
really having something but then I don't 
know or he he was avoiding a subject or 
she didn't give me a full answer on this 
or and we read a lot into it right we we 
have like we're like we're like NASA 
scientists getting the shuttle home you 
know we're like oh what does that mean 
and I don't know and I got to figure it 
out you know we're really going after it 
and instead if you can just allow you 
know your real job prepping for anything 
any any dating and at all is to look at 
your beliefs and create new ones so um 
yes there's uh there's a there's a lot 
of men who aren't right for me and 
there's literally billions of men in the 
world like there's definitely men who 
could be right for me and uh do you know 
what I mean or or there's yeah there's a 
lot of crappy women maybe but yeah 
there's a lot of great women of course 
there are like something or everything 
is figure out or you know anything I put 
my mind to I generally have achieved in 
my life but the bigger bigger piece is 
to be willing to risk love to be willing 
and when I say love based like I think 
of love-based emotions to be vulnerable 
to be open to be kind to be 
compassionate 
to bring it first and not wait stop 
waiting stop put it all out there put it 
out at least they'll either like who you 
are or not you know but better to know 
right away this idea that we just only 
put out the certain part now I'm not 
talking about the boundaries of what you 
talk about don't get me wrong here so 
you know we're not you're not advocating 
for TMI and not advocating for TMI and 
that's what's so important that's what 
people think for a minute I'm talking 
about going in with your full open 
heart that is a different thing no 
relationship ever in the history of 
relationships was made better by 
fear not one you can't have a love 
relationship based on fear like it's 
just not going to happen so why not 
start off at the very beginning with 
this cander with this openness with this 
willingness with this um hope with this 
sense of fun 
um with this sense of playfulness with 
you know that even if you're telling 
yourself first you know what I have 
a I have a wonderful full life and I 
hope to add someone that would be so 
great and I'm really okay on my own too 
like what if even that was what you said 
when you walked in uh you know the top 
of my website says be with someone who 
makes you happy and it the wi is crossed 
out you know be someone who makes you 
happy you know be there in that energy 
when I'm coaching clent like that's a 
lot of what I'm talking about what are 
your beliefs how do we shift them 
because that is how and it's so funny CU 
My Own Story which I was sharing with 
you I've met both of my husbands but 
only one at a time not to worry uh on 
both great men I have an excellent 
relationship with my father my kids my 
ex both very long-term relationships 
with these wonderful men that I met 
online you know that I met that way 
because I believe I believe differently 
about relationships and so I have had 
great luck that's what people always say 
to me well you have just really good 
luck in relationships I'm like I'm 
really what does that mean I don't even 
know what that means I believe in love I 
am not afraid to risk I'm not afraid to 
go out there and so that makes a 
difference with who I meet and how we 
meet and what I'm open to so Abby give 
us a new belief 
if someone if there's a woman out there 
who is settling 
for mediocre treatment in her 
relationships right what does that 
ultimately mean it means that in her 
subconscious she feels like that's all 
she's going that's all she's worthy of 
exactly and if you're thinking more 
you're because your friends tell you 
you're too picky so does your mother 
people tell you you're too picky your 
standards are too high you're I hate 
that I'm like what are we talking about 
I you know what do you mean too hot like 
you need to have standards and again 
here's the thing I noticed when people 
aren't getting what they need they focus 
on what they 
want you don't need someone who makes 
$500,000 a year so that's what you end 
up or you don't need someone who cleans 
the kitchen counters really 
well but what you need is someone who 
has your back someone who really just 
cherishes you someone who values you and 
maybe not even all the things you value 
but values you adores you adores you 
cherishes you Gary looks at me like I'm 
magic still the moon H Mo so that's it 
but then you focus on oh but he doesn't 
have the money or he's not tall enough 
or he's not this enough or do you know 
what I'm saying we end up focusing on 
these things that because we're not 
getting that 
feeling and then it looks like we're too 
picky because if you told anyone well 
I'm just really Holding Out for someone 
who really holds me in high regard no 
one would say boo to you no no one would 
question that and what do you say to the 
person who is not being picky and is in 
for this Behavior right and thinks well 
you know it's not so bad no it is bad 
and every person in their life is saying 
you need to end this yes and it's like 
well I can't end it I mean I'll end it 
when blah blah blah or when someone 
better comes along someone better is not 
gonna come along not gonna come along 
there's no room there's I'll end it when 
I lose 50 lbs I'll end it when it's like 
hold on what do you tell that person 
what's the belief yeah the so it's that 
say right it's that that is really 
connected to our low selfworth right and 
to you know where else are they settling 
in their life so for me with those folks 
I do have them write a list of and but 
it should be no more than three to five 
things and I have even like a little 
worksheet maybe I can maybe we'll um 
make sure you have that or you probably 
have something to just like it but you 
know where I have like what I want in a 
love relationship and it's just a short 
sheet where I know you already do this 
but I'm just getting very clear with 
people on what their standards are what 
is the thing that makes you feel safe 
makes you feel secure how is what is 
this person saying to you how do they 
act with you you need to feel secure in 
yourself obviously first but to really 
get clear I can't tell you how many 
people I have who just aren't really 
clear um what it is they really need 
they they know all kinds of things they 
want but they don't know what they 
really need what is that thing for you I 
call it your deal breaker you know 
you're that that that thing at the 
bottom of it all and for me it's the 
team like you've got my back no matter 
even when you don't agree with me and 
especially in public for me like if 
we're ever out and you know you disagree 
with something I'm saying or something 
else that you don't or if someone's uh 
I've been situations were you know 
someone from another couple was teasing 
me and like Gary did not play that game 
do you know what I mean he was not like 
he's not GNA pile on yeah no you know in 
a million years or my mother has had 
said some off com you know things to me 
some icky things and Gary's like I don't 
know what you're talking about like just 
shut it down like that's a person that 
always has my back right and maybe later 
he'll say to me you know I didn't love 
this or that or you know I you know how 
could we do that different next time 
time or whatever but never in the moment 
never in the in that and that's that 
feeling for me all else can go away all 
else can be gone that's what I need 
because then I'm good I can be 
vulnerable I can put all myself out 
there and the there are other nice 
things Gary does happen to be 64 and has 
a gray body like it's all very nice you 
know but I need that other stuff so what 
do you need that's what I have that like 
what do you need not what do you want 
what do you need and do people have a 
hard time answering yes very much which 
is why I have a little worksheet for it 
because no one I usually ask questions 
like when 
you by under identifying what what 
really has been a deal deal breaker the 
other way for you you can often identify 
what you need so I'll say to people when 
you have when you have left a 
relationship in the past or when you 
have left a job sometimes it's a job 
even if you didn't quite leave that day 
or mov your stuff out that day what was 
it that was like the straw that broke 
the camel's back you know what was it 
that was the thing that you thought no I 
can't do this another day do you know 
there's something there's always a 
there's something point exactly and when 
you know what that is you can often just 
have the opposite it's the reciprocal of 
that exactly so for me it's ever a 
feeling of being betrayed in some way 
like you know some feel feeling of being 
you know when I did the worksheet for 
myself it was like oh if I feel betrayed 
like you don't you know and I was able 
to come up with the words like oh you 
don't have my 
back and it's like oh that's what I need 
right so you can do it the inverse way 
too that's true I was thinking about a 
relationship I was in on and off again 
you know when I was younger before I was 
married and what was the deal breaker it 
was you lied to me oh there you go 
done and that was it that was it never 
look back see never look back honesty is 
really important yep and I will tell you 
with honesty I always tell it's 
interesting when we break 
down when we break down trust right the 
the concept of trust from in the 
research what we find is that there's 
three things that make up how we trust 
someone and that is Goodwill so in other 
words that that we think they have our 
best interest at 
heart integrity that's the honesty piece 
that they are honest that they they uh 
they say something and that's what it is 
and always remember it's also honesty 
with feelings you know that someone 
doesn't say you know are you okay oh I'm 
fine no you're not so now I can't trust 
you and now next week when you tell me 
I'm beautiful do I trust that too I 
don't I don't trust that because you 
don't tell the truth uh and then the 
third thing is competence are you 
competent in do you fall through on what 
you say you're going to do do you finish 
things do you uh keep keep a job do you 
uh show up for your friends when you say 
you're going to you know are you 
competent in the world those are the 
three things so it's interesting I have 
people sometimes I'll say oh you don't 
trust you don't trust this guy they yes 
I do because they're thinking of like 
cheating like a lot of times we'll trust 
someone not to cheat on us right we 
don't think that's going to happen so we 
think we trust them and we're doubting 
our feelings we're doubting we're like 
well I don't know it's just something we 
can't like name it and again this is a 
good way when you can break down trust 
into the three I call the trust Triad 
because I like little Snappy terms for 
things um but then you I'll say to them 
okay so you trust that they're honest 
with you but what about this confidence 
piece like when you say oh we're going 
to go out to dinner with the Smiths on 
Friday do they show up do they remember 
when you say oh you know your kid has 
piano lessons do they do they like take 
that on do they remember do they are 
they competent to be your partner you 
know can they show up in the way you 
need or is it this Goodwill piece that 
they're looking out for themselves more 
than they're looking out for you you 
know do you factor in the equation and 
that I think helps a lot of people that 
I've you know in my years of doing this 
really helps people go oh it also help 
helps in a relationship because if you 
just tell someone I don't trust you 
people get very what do you mean I would 
never cheat on you that's usually what 
happens or or they you trust them with 
your money or something like that that 
okay that's nice but what's missing here 
and that's what you want to talk about 
again get to what you need not what you 
want right because it sets people off on 
the wrong in the wrong 
place no I love that I mean we do this 
trans formative exercise with people to 
help them get into the dating world and 
prioritize the right thing and one part 
of it is who are the people in your life 
that make you happiest we call them 
elevator people that's our trademark who 
elevates you and this and we have a way 
of 
elucidating that in a certain way and 
that then comprises the new list of 
people now that's great when in the 
dating world right you have this list 
like great yeah absolutely but then most 
people go off and do what they did 
yesterday and Thursday and 10 years ago 
right so our job through the process is 
to guide them to say does this person is 
this person in alignment yes an elevator 
person for you and that's what most 
people don't realize because we go back 
to Buddy's 6'4 and he's jacked and he 
makes 
$500,000 and we went to Harvard and 
it's like how'd that work out for you 
over the last three boyfriends yep yep 
you and you I love this and you know 
what's so key here is this 
idea like my Gary who is so wonderful 
he's the best Gary is from like Upstate 
New York where um and is very like uh 
how do I explain Gary's like Mr 
wholesome you know and I'm you know and 
he he he's very to exercise I'm always 
in stilettos I don't want to exercise 
unless I have to you know held it 
gunpoint you know which I do every day 
but I don't want to I'm a foodie like 
you don't even know I am like so I am a 
chef my dad was a chef I cook Gary will 
eat five things maybe like could take a 
pill every day and not eat we don't have 
I love to read he doesn't you know I I 
mean I could go on and on we don't he 
didn't he was in the Navy I went to you 
know I leave school like we when on 
paper there's zero I mean there's zero 
there's not and so this idea that you 
have to all these things in common and 
we have to like go do all the same 
things and the same pedigree comp the 
same 
P we we got nothing our backgrounds with 
our families his family had more money 
than me like there's nothing there's 
really nothing and yet we work so so 
well anyone in the room with us is 
always like um get a room you got you 
know like we still just are so into each 
other all these years later and and my 
ex-husband which is so funny it was a 
hippie like a total hippie I would meet 
his ex-girlfriends they were all blonde 
blue-eyed named Heather taught yoga you 
know like do not look like me I was like 
how did this happen you know and but 
because if you just go with this idea of 
who you're supposed to be with or having 
all these things in common what you have 
to have in common for sure are your 
values you know I think your humor is 
the number one thing you have to have in 
common like this sort of the same sense 
of humor and this ability to want to 
have fun but mostly you have to 
want love to be first you both have to 
be going towards that this idea of like 
this Allin this vulnerability this we're 
a team when you have that so I go on the 
Spartan Race you know likes these 
Spartan races you know I go to them with 
him I travel I work in my the hotel room 
on my laptop but you know I fill the 
bathtub with ice when he comes back and 
I I talk about the races which is you 
know not something I want to talk about 
and but I've found a way to make it 
interesting for myself and I get into it 
and you know I talk about the different 
kinds and like I'm like an expert on 
Spartan if anybody wants you know but 
like but I don't do them do you know 
what I mean stilettos I I thank you I I 
I like the nails everything like no so 
but it's okay we can you know and I'm 
always cooking and making the stuff he 
doesn't care he doesn't want to eat it 
like he literally I doesn't eat half my 
food and it's really okay like nowhere 
on my list of the perfect guy did it say 
has to eat the kind of food I like and I 
have girlfriends who ask they're like oh 
don't you miss going out to nice 
restaurants I'm like I go out with 
friends to nice restaurants like I do it 
or he'll come along he's so sweet and he 
just won't eat he'll like hang out with 
me he'll get himself a beer he'll like 
we're fine we are fine because we could 
talk all night you know so do you know 
what I mean get rid of this idea of what 
the checklist is or really look at your 
checklist and make 
sure that it's it's not I think people 
rely on the things in common thing 
because they don't have anything else 
they don't know what to do we're never 
to do 
right we think common interest common 
culture common religion reduces friction 
right and that's you know a wisdom of 
Ages and generations like marry if 
you're Jewish marry someone Jewish marry 
someone Indian it just makes it easier 
right but does it yeah there's other 
things that make it easier yep it's not 
that stuff it's really true it's really 
true and you do have to find a place to 
agree on things and you could never be 
with someone 
who both both my men were not Jewish 
like me so you know we had to agree on 
stuff how do we want to raise the kids 
what do we want do we have a Christmas 
tree in the house like what we had to 
agree on 
things that's part of the conversations 
you have by the way before you get 
married right I can't tell you how many 
people I have who get married and then 
start to have these conversations but 
and and no you don't have to have them 
on the first date because the other 
thing that happens is that as you get to 
know know someone cuz I have clients 
they'll say well I just need him to know 
he's Jewish my first dat if he's not 
then I he needs to know we have to raise 
our kids Jewish and I'm like you don't 
even know what you're going to want if 
you fall deeply in love with 
someone I would have said that too like 
my kids have to be raised you know like 
without a doubt this is what I need and 
if I had had that conversation too early 
I never would have had my children with 
my their dad because he would have been 
like no you know and but we found such a 
great way to raise them together you 
know when you're in love and you start 
to work towards stuff and you really get 
to know each other and the why behind it 
well why is Judaism important to you 
tell me more about your religion tell me 
more about what works and what doesn't 
you know you start to have Rich 
beautiful conversations and from there 
you figure out what the next thing is 
100% And so don't get into that first 
like well I'm only going to date X Y or 
Z because I know you don't know you 
don't don't know yeah you don't know 
love it 100% I agree with you I'm grew 
up child of Indian immigrants 
everybody's like your husband's Indian 
right because they assume that I'm like 
he's so white he's pink right I mean no 
he's 
completely unexpected package right this 
is when I tell everyone if you are 
looking for the things that matter to 
you love can come in a totally different 
package than you anticipate yes yes yes 
yes and it always does and see look how 
the RS Works in that situation look how 
your 40 versus 11 million bits Works in 
that situation when you realize that you 
could open that up right that that 
mindset now your subconscious is isn't 
only looking for guys at Temple or 
mosque or wherever right they're also 
looking for them you are noticing the 
man at Starbucks who might have opened 
your door you know you are noticing 
maybe the guy that took the ticket for 
your car when you're going to pick it up 
you'll start to notice different people 
they'll start to come into your your you 
know into your view and you you might 
think oh I don't know if I could date a 
guy who Parks cars maybe he's finishing 
his medical degree doing that you don't 
know so if you just write them off or 
maybe he's not but he's like the 
greatest guy ever who's going to be so 
treat you like gold and maybe you'll 
make the money I don't know like there's 
so many things that could happen when 
you're open and willing but when again 
but understanding what you really need 
amen it's not anyone it's this it's this 
I love that and let's talk about 
boundaries I love boundaries okay go 
tell us about boundaries boundaries Made 
Easy is your new book tell us about what 
what does a boundary mean yes okay 
because I think we bastardized this word 
all over the place and I find I'll go on 
my 30 second rant the word boundaries 
sometimes I feel like it gives people 
license to be an [ __ ] because they're 
like well that's a boundary so I'm gonna 
say blah I'm like but that's not okay 
that's not a boundary right let's you're 
right oh my God you're so good so what I 
find is that people do that they'll say 
I have a boundary that you're that you 
know no one can say X or Y to me or I 
have you know or I told my mother I 
don't like how she's speaking to me I 
drew a 
boundary none of those are boundaries 
those are things you'd like things you'd 
like I'd like my mother to talk 
differently to me I would like you not 
to you know uh call me a name I don't 
know uh whatever it is those are just 
things you want and so that's number one 
get rid of that what a bound a boundary 
really is when you take full 
responsibility for your thoughts 
feelings and emotions and no 
responsibility for someone else thoughts 
feelings or emotions that's number one 
so most people walk through life I say 
with so much love but as victims this 
guy he trampled my boundaries well if 
you had a real boundary he couldn't have 
trampled them you would have said no 
because a real boundary is so you think 
again it's so it's very connected to 
this and I do it in the book where I I 
have you really get to what your deal 
breakers are oh I can't wait to read 
this book I'm I'm really proud of the 
book uh you get to what your real deal 
breakers are and when you're there like 
uh I have a boundary that um my partner 
uh always has my back right that's a 
boundary but that's not even a boundary 
yet that's a standard now that's a 
standard you have you have a standard 
that people treat you with respect you 
have a standard that people are honest 
with you standard the boundary is when 
you add teeth the boundary is when you 
add what you are going to do if this 
standard isn't met by another person 
that's a boundary and most and 99.9% of 
people have no I don't want to say 
consequence because you're not punishing 
people but a response that you're going 
to have some sort of teeth on the other 
side I recently had a client who had 
told her family not she lost a lot of 
weight and she sent an email we worked 
on this to her family say is a large 
Italian family back East do not talk 
about my weight I don't want to talk 
about my weight or my food I'm just I 
there's so many things I would love to 
talk to you about and this is not one of 
them so please don't comment or I'm 
Gonna Leave This was uh Memorial Day or 
I'm going to need to I'm just not going 
to stay like I I don't want to have this 
and sure enough she she and she sent an 
extra text to her brother who she just 
knew was going to and the boundary I'm 
really serious about this I'm just 
letting you know so when she went sure 
enough about 15 minutes in the brother 
said something and she said she said 
I've I was very clear with you not to 
talk about my weight and and he said oh 
my gosh I'm so sorry you know not really 
sorry right uh oh I'm sorry I forgot how 
sensitive you are about that You Know M 
I know and she said no worries you know 
what we'll just try this again another 
time picked up her bag and walked out in 
the most loving clear way because 
boundaries are love boundaries are love 
if you otherwise you have a wall that's 
how you know the difference a wall is 
fear-based a wall is meant to keep 
people out a boundary is meant to keep 
people in she loves her brother she 
wants to figure out a way that they can 
all be together but not this here's what 
usually happens you would say that all 
You' do so good right your brother would 
say the stupid thing and you would go 
and he would apologize and you were like 
all right don't do it again though right 
that's that's what I would do uhuh 
because now you've collapsed your 
boundary now because they're apologizing 
and acting quote unquote nice you are 
going to be nice and collapse your 
boundary because you've already said 
what's going to happen if they do it so 
now they've done it so so you know what 
happens maybe an hour later your brother 
says another thing about your weight or 
the next time you guys sit down or the 
or when you're now eating are you going 
to have a second help what are you 
eating on this diet of yours they're 
going to say something because you 
haven't held your 
boundary and she it's so cute because 
she texted me after which my clients 
don't normally text me but you know I 
always say if there's something real big 
you know and she said I'm so proud she 
said I feel so 
empowered I don't hate my brother right 
now which normally you feel resentful 
right which by the way is not loving to 
feel so resentful to people because they 
did this thing to you it it is not their 
job to hold your boundary it's yours and 
this is the hardest thing for people to 
get I I understand it's very nice when 
people respect our pound trees but if 
you don't respect them how do you expect 
other people to respect them they will 
not so when and she again did it so we 
had rehearsed it you know I said I said 
to her what are you do we role played it 
and she did she goes you know what we'll 
have to try this another time she didn't 
make a big thing she didn't make a big 
fuss she just you know she didn't like 
say goodbye to everybody I have to leave 
cuz you know Roberto said something 
about my weight you know she didn't do 
anything she just left and she said she 
sent a little email later to everybody 
like hey not sorry I left early she 
didn't 
apologize she said hey I left early 
Roberto and I you know had trouble with 
the boundary we're going to try again 
next time just to remind to everybody 
I'm looking forward to seeing you all on 
July 4th because they have a thing 
planned July 4th it's a very close 
family and she's like we'll see what 
happens wow and there it is and there it 
is this that those are boundaries that 
is how you keep a boundary that is how 
you do that but this idea that you tell 
people things don't talk to me that way 
I'm have a boundary with you that you're 
not allowed to speak this way means 
nothing and by the way what is this way 
you know the boundary again needs to be 
very clear around the kind of language 
and so I always say don't repeat a 
boundary never repeat it never repeat 
it like never so if you say it once this 
is that's why I say this over and over 
because people don't hear they think 
they well I have to give them a warning 
it's like no you don't if you've already 
told them what to if you've already told 
them sometimes we don't always announce 
our boundaries right so you might be 
somewhere and someone starts to in this 
instance maybe me mentioned something 
about her food or something and she or 
her weight and she could just say you 
know what I'm really not comfortable 
talking about my weight my favorite 
shift by the way is to say to someone I 
have a brother who likes to talk to me 
about politics and we do not agree on 
politics remotely but he likes to try to 
convince me that he's right and so we 
love him so when he does this what I say 
I go I say his name and I say I have a 
few of them so no one knows no brother 
knows who it is 
uh I say his name and I go there are so 
many things I'm so excited to talk to 
you about this is not one of them and I 
just jump into a new topic how are the 
kids oh my God let me tell you what Max 
did in baseball the other day what I 
just I just go with whatever I want to 
talk 
about and people love it they get it 
they really do they're they're they want 
to connect with you so they will shift 
so if you're on a date and someone 
starts to ask a question and you don't 
like it or you don't like where it's 
going you can say that like you can just 
say you know what I you know we're kind 
of early on I'm not going to talk about 
what my divorce yet um you know if we 
get a little farther along we will but 
there's a lot of things I would like you 
to know about me exactly and there's a 
lot of things I would like to know about 
you so let's jump in and if that person 
couldn't handle that on like a first 
second or third date I would say they're 
not for you anyway and why are they 
probing into something not appropriate 
the first make a connection make a 
connection you here's what happens a lot 
someone else has poor boundaries with us 
or maybe maybe this person you're on a 
date with is talking all about their 
ex right it's the same thing when you 
see poor boundaries coming at you their 
poor boundaries coming at you uh we call 
this uh inment but when you see and I'll 
talk about that in a second when you see 
that coming at you again it's a good 
time to go you know what I'm going to 
stop you there very nicely openly 
beautiful heart you know 
lovingly you know I'm going to stop you 
there I I'm not sure I'm in a place yet 
to hear about your exes but I would love 
to hear about why and then just go don't 
you don't have to wait for what you I 
would love to hear more about your work 
or tell me more about you know uh what 
your favorite I don't know what was your 
favorite birthday I I don't care 
anything anything else you know anything 
else so you're allowed to steer the 
conversation and what happens with 
boundaries I put them on a Continuum of 
thin to thick so the thin boundaries are 
are where we have extreme kind of in 
mment No Boundaries you know when people 
are talking about their sex lives right 
away by the way if you're getting like a 
dick pick you know first day like these 
no like this is too thin the boundaries 
are too thin this person is showing you 
talk about your red flags red flags are 
poor boundaries it's the same thing so 
you're getting this information and 
you're getting the ick or whatever that 
boundar is too thin when they tell you 
too much about their past too soon 
whatever it is right that's it's a too 
thin boundary codependence lives there 
in meshman all that but we tend to think 
of this as nice being nice to people and 
that's a big problem especially for 
women who always think we have to be 
nice the other end of the boundary 
Continuum are boundaries that are too 
thick like if you ever called your dad 
sir that's a pretty thick boundary you 
know what I mean like you know right 
people do you know when boundaries are 
thick is when and here's what happens 
you have a boundary someone doesn't 
respect it and you go too thick you slam 
the door you unfollow them you block 
them I'm never speaking to you again I'm 
and I really don't like the cut offs in 
that way because boundaries are a skill 
and you have to practice them and you're 
not practicing when you cut someone off 
nor now granted if someone is super 
toxic or abusive that's fine Lo and 
delete but that's not normal that's not 
common so what happens is you get too 
thin I see it all the time and maybe 
you've said something too soon or you 
know you put yourself out there a little 
vulnerably and they haven't gotten back 
and you start to feel rejected and 
abandoned those are always the two as 
you know and then you immediately go to 
F you you know this oh oh this guy can't 
even feel feelings it's like whoa whoa 
whoa whoa maybe you were maybe you were 
going a little fast there maybe maybe or 
maybe you weren't even fast but they're 
slower yeah and that's okay to right and 
I the biggie here is to remember that 
there's preferences not right or wrong 
that's right it yep it's not right to 
want more sex and it's not right to want 
less sex not right to want to celebrate 
Christmas and it's not wrong to want to 
celebrate Hanukkah you know there's no 
right or wrong there's preferences I 
like to have sex four times a week and I 
like to have sex sex twice a week so 
what does that mean you know I like to 
talk about all my feelings you know real 
like right away that's how I get to know 
people oh I'm someone who doesn't do 
that so and I find we do it a lot 
especially with introverts you know 
people are more introverted I should say 
when they lean more that way they're 
often seen as well you should get out 
more you know try this try like like 
it's a something you got to cure you 
know being more in there's nothing wrong 
with it it's a it's a it's a it's a 
preference it's a way of being now if 
you're so introverted again like way on 
the other end that you are so socially 
anxious that then that's something that 
should be treated for sure for sure 
right super shyness that's not the same 
as introversion that's the same as 
social anxiety so that that should be 
treated but but when I have a client who 
comes to me and say oh I'm too 
introverted and I'm not dating and it's 
hard to meet people I'm likew let's talk 
first you know let let's let's get in 
there and see and I and I know you do 
that right let's see what that is and on 
the same scale if someone is too 
extroverted like way on the other end of 
that Continuum what are you doing like 
what would it be to be quieter what 
would it be to wait and make room for 
someone else to talk what would it be if 
you weren't in the center how does that 
feel 
on the side a little bit what is that 
like you know and you start to have 
these conversations with people and they 
start to really understand themselves 
it's so beautiful so if you can go into 
a relationship like that not thinking 
you're wrong and notice keep a boundary 
if someone says something on a date like 
well I've never dated anybody so 
introverted before or something or you 
know you can stop them and go oh well 
what is uh what is introverted for you 
ask a question what yeah what does that 
mean when you say that tell me more 
about why you think I am yeah exactly 
tell me more tell me more is my favorite 
you know I always with my clients the 
story I'm telling myself 
is you don't like introverts or is this 
a story that I'm telling myself yes 
right and so give the other person the 
benefit of the doubt Y and then let them 
answer the question this question has 
been gamechanging in our he even like 
the story I'm telling myself versus like 
rushing to make a judgment on something 
that just happened right it's like okay 
I have a standard I love the way you've 
pouched these terms and so it could feel 
like something someone did or said 
violated that but the first thing I'll 
do is if it's not 
clear because I want to have good 
relationships with the people in my 
house and I want to be given the benefit 
of the doubt as well because they may be 
in that mode where they're looking at 
everything negatively because they've 
had a bad day it's like hold on a second 
that's not what I intended that's not 
what I said right so the story I'm 
telling myself is blah blah blah Y is 
that is that on or am I off 
track oh my God I love I love it I love 
it so much and and I'm gonna actually 
segue into maybe this last little thing 
like this nugget for people to take away 
I I talk a lot about not sacking your I 
don't sack any conversation or 
relationship and sa don't offer 
suggestions give advice or 
criticize so if you went on any 
date and didn't offer a suggest any 
advice any criticism because it's a 
criticism to tell someone they're to 
something that's a criticism like you're 
judging it you know you're you're 
judging what it is and most people say 
go well what's left Abby like I don't 
even know how to have a conversation now 
uh and it's asking questions and I call 
them collaborative questions you know so 
that's what you know tell me more about 
or um you know uh tell you know tell me 
more about like this day in your life or 
what you know what are you thinking when 
you're telling me that you ex what do 
you mean by that you know the story I 
tell myself about that is XYZ tell me 
more about what you're saying when you 
say that can you clarify that can you 
like asking questions it's such I try to 
do it with my kids even you know where I 
just my teenagers that's hard try to 
just be in asking questions because 
we're so used to just saying the thing 
and I would say especially with my male 
clients this is a really hard thing to 
do men are very used to G I say with 
love men very used to giving their 
opinion very used to without being asked 
without any you know anything they sack 
they sack all the time and so what I 
tell women and what I've had to train 
the men in my life to do is I'll stop 
and go you know what I you're coming at 
me with uh some what I'm seeing as 
advice or criticism and like well I'm 
not trying to criticize I'm just trying 
to 
help it's like well it's not being 
received as help so but could you ask me 
a question could you help maybe we could 
brainstorm you know and maybe you could 
ask me more questions to understand what 
I'm trying to say or you know and I 
encourage the people around me to ask 
these questions instead of you know 
that's and that's a boundary in it but 
it's really more of like a rule of being 
we have a lot of rules of being and 
those are good save the boundaries for 
something else it's it's not a boundary 
that he has to put away the dishes as 
much as you that's just like a rule of 
the household do you know what I mean 
and I would even say again don't keep 
score it's no one's turn to put away the 
dishes if it a turn you take turning 
games 
like put away the bigon dishes you know 
and again are you getting the other 
things you need because when you are 
these kinds of things you you will find 
you just don't care you don't care you 
don't care oh I want to continue this 
conversation for another eight hours 
like this is so fun so Abby tell people 
where they can get more you get more of 
me uh you know really it's the website 
which I know you'll link to ABY med.com 
and the um relationships Made Easy 
podcast that I have which is really um 
evidence-based approaches to being happy 
in your life in whatever way that is 
there's like one coming out this week on 
how to stop ruminating and negative 
thinking you know and there's always 
action tips and that kind of thing so uh 
yeah so go there and the website all 
links to my social media my YouTube 
channel all the things are are housed on 
my little my cute little website well 
I've Loved this conversation and I would 
love to have you back on the podcast I 
would love to be 
back well thank you smart daters until 
the next episode I wish you a week of 
thoughtful reflection and thinking about 
your beliefs what are they and are you 
putting is your conscious 
putting bad thoughts into your 
subconscious and so you're seeing the 
world in a way that you don't want to 
see the world and you're experiencing 
the world in a way that you don't want 
to experience the world and think about 
what you need in your relationships 
right what are your deal breakers what 
are your have to haves and think about 
this because when you think about this 
and you take a moment to sit down and do 
that reflection like Abby said that's 
when things start to change because you 
have said stop the madness I need to sit 
down and not just get back into the 
dating pool and do the same thing over 
and over again so that is my ending 
monologue for you and until we see you 
next 
time thank you so much a thank you for 
having me 
