[Music] 
this is just a lesson to women who are 
like I don't want to get big I want to 
be toned I go what is toned there is no 
such thing as toned you get toned by 
building muscle muscle metabolic Spanx 
it holds everything in tighter it boosts 
your metabolism it's a sponge that gives 
sugar a place to land that's not on your 
belly right and it it's an enderin organ 
that's really powerful in in making sure 
that you're great a balancing your 
hormones it helps you go weight train 
you're going to have better testosterone 
levels like it's everything and so if 
you your whole life have been afraid to 
lift weights cuz you're afraid to get 
big get over it cuz in 40 years of 
working with men and women helping them 
with their diet and exercise I have 
never seen someone get big lifting 
weights I've seen someone get big eating 
you know Ultra proc sitting on the 
couch 
