her name is Jody Lavoy Jody's gonna tell 
us her story what it's like to date as a 
widow and tips for all of us as to what 
to do and what not to do if you're 
dating a widow or widower so well let's 
just go my husband was shot at work by 
an employee that he demoted four days 
prior who came back to the office and 
shot my husband I woke up the next 
morning and I went oh my gosh I'm now 
running a business because that was the 
plan if something happened to Steve I 
would take over in one moment your 
entire life just went upside down what 
was it like to think about embarking on 
The Dating process it was scary new men 
entering my life and it's not my husband 
what is that going to be like and I 
think I got some of that out of my 
system with the poor eight people before 
sorry if you're listening eight people a 
much better dater now 
