[Music] 
even before we get into the dating 
process and throughout it I think a lot 
of the work is actually with ourselves 
right so like our relationship with 
ourselves having Clarity on who we are 
and what we want that's what's going to 
influence the dating experiences that we 
have in the relationship to a large 
extent that we get into by being 
authentic I think it's taking the time 
to really ask yourself well what is it 
that I want do I want a relationship do 
I want something casual am I looking for 
you know establishing a family with 
someone or partnership and so getting 
more clear as to what those things are 
and why those things are important to 
you I think a lot of times we may you 
know think we want to relationship but 
then when it comes down to it maybe it's 
not actually as important it requires 
some lifestyle changes some time changes 
and so if we can think about the why 
that can make everything a lot easier 
for 
[Music] 
us 
