[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find l 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to this week's podcast I am 
jumping out of my skin excited to bring 
you my new friend an 
amazing super industrial rock star 
Vienna faren Vienna welcome to the Smart 
dating 
podcast new friends I love I love it 
we're quick friends uh I'm so excited to 
be here and to chat with you thank you 
for having me okay for those of you who 
might not know which I can't imagine you 
don't know her but Vienna um trained at 
Northwestern she's partially Chicago so 
we talked about that but is a licensed 
marriage and family therapist and one of 
New York City's most sought after 
relationship therapist she's got an 
amazing Instagram mindful mft she's a 
Tik Tok star Vienna so happy to have you 
here let's Dive Right In 
to wounds dating friendships 
relationships all of it tell us about 
you yeah yeah well a lot of times people 
will ask me like how I got into this 
work right um and that's probably a good 
place for us to start because it's 
probably unsurprising that my own life 
story brought me into the work of 
becoming a couple's therapist a family 
therapist with someone who was really 
intrigued and interested in what it what 
goes into making relationships work I 
grew up in a divorced household my 
parents went through a 9-year divorce 
process which at the time was uh the 
record you know in the state of New 
Jersey uh it was a really long drawn out 
process wow n years yeah really really 
long I know that that that uh that 
amount of time has has been surpassed at 
this point um but I you know I was a 
kiddo I was in first grade when when the 
separation started and that was a really 
long time to be going through it and 
obviously really important years of my 
life to be experiencing and bearing 
witness to something that was really 
challenging you know there was a lot of 
chaos there was a lot of conflict there 
was a lot of gaslighting and 
manipulation and psychological abuse and 
paranoia and emotional flooding and I 
always share that I'm an only child as 
well and the reason I share that detail 
is because I was this individual kiddo 
in a family system going through this 
and I think you know this idea of if I 
had had a sibling or neither one of my 
parents repartnered or or if I had had 
another adult in this space who could 
have like understood the experience or 
connected with it validated something I 
think that would have been a really 
different and interesting experience for 
me versus one where just as a kiddo I am 
sitting there watching experiencing 
observing and trying to make sense of 
everything that was going on without 
really having someone else in the space 
to witness you know to really bear 
witness to what was going on and really 
connect with what my experience was I 
became someone just wow yeah 
I know it really was I mean when I 
obviously the work that I do now is is 
reconnecting with you know these younger 
parts of of the self and so there's a 
there's a real tender spot there for her 
uh but when I was a kid watching say 
like the adults were crashing and 
burning around me and as a kiddo I 
decided that my best option was to fly 
under the radar was to become needless I 
became really good at the things that I 
put my mind to and that was my coping 
strategy right that was my way of 
protecting myself and to some degree 
really protecting them I was an it's 
fine girl I'm good girl uh nothing 
bothers me girl which turned me into a 
it's fine woman I'm good woman nothing 
bothers me woman uh the Persona was the 
cool girl you know I was una affected by 
everything I was boundary list and I 
thought that that 
was the least disruptive way to operate 
in the world and I share that right 
because when we look at those early 
years and understand the roles that we 
took on and understand you know you 
mentioned the word wounding obviously I 
talk a lot about wounding in my book uh 
but you know it was like who I became as 
an adult woman was such an extension of 
that again not surprising but there's so 
much value to being able to connect and 
really comprehend our story so that we 
can start to create change because the 
reality of it was is that my romantic 
relationships my friendships right like 
there were limitations and constraints 
and blocks there that kept me from 
having the relationships in life that I 
really desired because I couldn't speak 
up I didn't know how to have boundaries 
I pretended like I was fine I had no 
relationship with my voice voice 
whatsoever and I really needed 
personally to dive into this work that I 
write about now uh in order to do you 
know the healing that was necessary to 
shift from disempowered to empowered to 
move from survival to 
choice right like that to me is such a 
huge part of the healing process is 
reclaiming a relationship with choice 
and act sort of sitting in the driver's 
seat of our lives so little personal 
background there as to why I got into 
this 
space that's amazing I I mean what a 
story and you became the cool girl and 
to some extent The Peacemaker and to 
some extent the one who performed and 
did all of the things correctly which 
makes so much sense at what point do you 
remember or think that you became aware 
of oh [ __ ] my parents' divorce actually 
impacted who I am because I think so 
often we can take we just forget that 
and we lose sense of that did you have 
like that inflection point moment where 
you're like oh my God and the light bulb 
went on well let me tell you I wasn't 
really stubborn for a long time I even 
when I went to grad school to become a 
marriage and family 
therapist while I was in school I was 
like my parents divorce didn't affect me 
my my parents are great friends we do we 
we spend holidays together and that was 
true right there was an evolution to 
their relationship in which they had 
become pretty good friends they would 
come to my lacrosse games together I 
remember uh teammates of mine in my 
senior year of college were like wait 
your parents are divorced you know it it 
struck me that they didn't present in 
that way to the world at that point in 
my life right and so like yeah they're 
great friends we they they travel in the 
car together we have holidays together 
now every everything's good right 
and I just held that story that I wasn't 
affected there wasn't anything to see 
here and I I share that because I think 
so many of us are can be resistant to 
the idea that the past does inde 
impact us or that it maybe has still 
some type of hold on us decades later a 
lot of times people are resistant to 
doing this work of turning back around 
they're like one what am I going to find 
in Pandora's box or two I'm in a place 
now with the relationship with them 
that's good and I don't want to tamper 
with it or three you know they did the 
best that they could or four they were 
so much better than their parents worded 
them so I should just be grateful or 
five they've given up so much and 
sacrificed so much and so I would feel 
foolish to you know complain about 
something and this work is not about 
going on a wild goose hunt we're not 
trying to chase something down we're not 
trying to stay stuck in the past but we 
are trying to acknowledge and honor the 
story right to acknowledge and honor the 
pain to acknowledge and honor the wounds 
and it didn't 
really I wasn't ready to fully see it 
probably until my mid late 20s there's a 
catalyst certainly I was dating someone 
uh whose ex came back into the picture 
and he was trying to figure out whether 
or not he wanted to be back in the 
relationship with her stay in the 
relationship with me and he and I were 
uh monogamous we were dating at that 
time and you know Q it's fine of course 
I totally understand right like both the 
pleaser the Peacekeeper the its fine 
girl is showing up and also a little bit 
of the therapist who holds context for 
everyone is showing up too right cuz I'm 
like there's a story here I he's got 
trauma and I need to hold space for his 
trauma so here I am holding all of this 
space for this person which also right 
like there was truth to it there was 
there was a lot of complicated layers to 
it that I did understand but I remember 
having a conversation with a friend at 
one point and it the light bul did go 
off I was like oh yeah this is the same 
role that I've been in my entire life 
and it really linked to you know 
obviously my early childhood and the 
story that I was sharing before and it's 
funny how resistant we can be one could 
argue didn't you go to grad school for 
this you like you got a degree in this 
like what what happened like to heal my 
own wounds on right and you know and and 
I had done there you know being in grad 
school for this work is like being in 
therapy for a couple of years right it's 
like it's deep it's int ensive and there 
was still beautiful work that did get 
accomplished and I could also lead 
clients to a certain point but I'm also 
a big believer that our own resolution 
as individuals and in the role as 
therapist right is such a huge part in 
where we can take our clients and I 
really needed to continue to do this 
work in order to be able to lead clients 
and push them and guide them and 
challenge them to go further as well and 
so yeah there was that Catalyst where 
there the light bulb moment went off I 
had the AHA and I think I really just 
surrendered to the fact that I had been 
affected and it might seem obvious to 
some folks but if you're a I'm fine 
person the moment that you say I'm not 
fine for the first time really is 
lifechanging yeah and it might sound 
really simple but it's this pivot I talk 
about that in the book right like this 
pivot where we get off of the you know 
the the the tracks in the snow that are 
that are pre-made right if you're go 
cross country skiing let's say right 
it's like ah this is easy I can do this 
the tracks are already here it's the 
moment that you jump out of that into 
fresh powder and oh it's so much harder 
right it's so much more challenging and 
yeah I mean it was a deeply confronting 
moment when I called him up and said I'm 
going to take myself out of the equation 
and it's not actually fine and it has 
felt really disrespectful and I'm I'm 
not okay with what's going on and this 
wasn't a mic drop moment this wasn't uh 
o I feel so empowered now this was a 
deeply distressing moment you know like 
curled up on the bathroom floor crying 
like it was there was contraction that 
happened after after a moment of 
expansion which I think is really 
important for us to know that often 
after we take these moments of expansion 
in our lives where we communicate 
something that we previously wouldn't 
communicate where we set a boundary when 
we normally wouldn't have set a boundary 
right where we do the thing that we're 
working and practicing that it doesn't 
always feel great in fact a lot of the 
time it doesn't feel great at all and 
that doesn't mean that you're on the 
wrong path right the contraction is just 
like oh it almost feels like death 
sometimes I don't mean that dramatically 
but like woo wow I you know I'm still 
here and I survived it but woo I don't 
feel 
great it's so funny that you say that 
because at the in the work that we do at 
Smart dating Academy when we have 
singles that have come in and they have 
chronically you know I call it like our 
Pickers are broken right and it's not 
because were broken it's we were never 
taught how to date and find good healthy 
happy relationships so when we're 
guiding them and if somebody has thrown 
down red flags we've given it a second 
chance they continue right there's some 
it becomes easy not even easy to your 
point we'll teach them how to use their 
voice and say hey you know what when you 
said such and such it made me realize 
that we're not on the same page know I 
am sure you'll find someone else have a 
you know have a nice life I'm kidding 
that's not what we have them say but 
they feel really proud in the moment but 
to your point sometimes there's I call 
it a backpedaling but I like the 
contraction it's oh my god did I just do 
the wrong thing that person was really I 
think that person was great we're like 
they're not great so it becomes this 
moment of second guessing Contracting 
and so 
our job is no you're good you used your 
voice you you took control you set a 
boundary your standard was here and you 
stopped accepting that yeah when we 
create change it requires us to tolerate 
discomfort and that's one of the hardest 
pieces is that our ability to tolerate 
disappointing someone letting someone 
down upsetting someone right whatever 
might be fill in the blank right has to 
increase and that's hard that's hard 
when we are Pleasers that's hard when we 
have a worthiness wound in the driver's 
seat where the most important thing in 
our world is that someone chooses us 
that we're not checking in with 
ourselves that nothing else really 
matters just as long as this person 
wants to be with me right whatever it 
might be I mean there's endless 
storylines but our ability to tolerate 
something 
it's hard because to create change or to 
step from you know disempowerment to 
empowerment there there really is a 
consequence to it if you will there's 
also a victory but we don't see the 
victory in the moment as much the 
consequence is oh this relationship ends 
or I you know I have to put a stop to 
something or someone is going to be 
disappointed in me and that that is 
something that so many of us have lived 
Our Lives doing everything in our power 
to avoid and so when we're asking 
ourselves to step towards that you can 
understand why the system is like woo no 
thank you I I don't think I want to do 
that it doesn't get me the outcome that 
I want right and the outcome for so many 
people to your point is well I want to 
get the third date and I want to get the 
fourth date and I want to get the fifth 
date I'm like this is not a performance 
that you're being graded on I want you 
to stop and think about how did I feel 
when I was on this date like you have 
the steering wheel of your dating life 
no one else does but for so long we have 
exited the driver's seat and sat in the 
passenger seat right it's like I I want 
you to say yes I'm like no you don't you 
don't have to so it's how do I feel and 
using your voice to make sure that 
you're picking people that feel really 
good and really safe for you yeah yeah 
but the Picker you know the Picker can 
be skewed when we have your resolution 
oh go let's go there girl yeah right 
because I think you know when we talk 
about like yeah you're not broken but 
you might be unresolved around something 
right and your picker goes towards that 
which is familiar a lot of the time 
sometimes it'll go to opposition which 
might appear to be pretty nice on the 
surface but opposition isn't actually 
integration um so sometimes you'll see 
people in dating where they like date 
one type and then they swing the 
pendulum all you know it's like the the 
the nasty kind of jerk over here and 
then the like super duper nice like 
really kind of yeah I I don't know 
whatever you want to call it whether 
it's the the nice person the overgiving 
person the this and then they go back 
and forth between the two right and and 
so yeah our Pickers really need 
resolution in order for us to actually 
choose differently in the moment because 
otherwise we're going to be operating 
from a fear-based place right from a 
protective place and to understand what 
it is that we're actually trying to 
protect in a dating process let's say it 
is a really important question for us to 
be 
asking so and I know you probably talk 
for 10 hours about this because this is 
amazing I mean how do we if we feel like 
our Pickers are off and we're listening 
to this going oh my God this sounds like 
me how do we begin this 
work your pattern recognition is really 
important so within the context of 
dating if dating is hasn't been working 
out for you if relationships have 
haven't been working out for you in the 
way that you want we really want to 
understand what the pattern is I always 
say The Unwanted patterns in our lives 
are pointing us to the irresolution from 
the past and so okay gentleness here 
because I'm going to always I'm going to 
remind us of that in this inquiry in our 
curiosity we are moving shame aside 
we're moving self-criticism aside we're 
moving guilt and embarrassment aside and 
just trying to bring some compassion and 
Grace and curiosity forward we have to 
go on this Quest together right and so 
yeah our unwanted patterns which by the 
way if you're human you've got them it's 
like so let's just normalize that right 
off the bat right we all have them say 
it again for the people in the back it's 
like we all got them so no shame there 
and also you might be a little tired of 
yourself you know the reality of it is 
is like I know that frustrated feeling 
where you're like oh again like I keep 
doing the thing that I promise and say 
that I'm not going to do so again 
curiosity right because our choices our 
behaviors the things that we are 
frustrated about The Unwanted patterns 
that keep poking their heads up they're 
they are trying to protect us from 
something and I think that's a beautiful 
way to approach this as opposed to just 
being annoyed and frustrated by it so 
unwanted patterns direct line into 
irresolution so you want to understand 
what's The Unwanted pattern that I keep 
entertaining that I keep finding myself 
in and what is it pointing to so in the 
book I talk about five origin wounds 
which are worthiness belonging 
prioritization trust and safety through 
the work I'm certain that we all 
probably rub up against a worthiness 
wound at some point in our lives but 
worthiness wounds are so deeply 
connected and correlated with 
conditional love so if you grew up in a 
family system where love connection 
attachment validation affirmation peace 
calm Etc were conditional based upon 
your performance your perfectionism your 
ability to please right that might look 
like straight A that might look like 
scoring a hattrick on the sports field 
that might look like being the comic 
relief in the family that might look 
like making mom happy happy that might 
look like right I mean so many different 
things where you learn that if I am this 
way right then love is available to me 
then communication is available to me I 
share when when I was a quote unquote 
good girl my dad was so lovely and 
wonderful and helpful and supportive 
when I stepped out of good girl mode 
punishment through uh silent treatment 
was what would play out and it's just an 
interesting thing to name because it was 
an added layer on top of the I'm I'm 
fine every I'm unaffected I'm unbothered 
I'm good over here on top of it was okay 
only if you show up in the way that is 
okay for him will you have access to him 
his love his help his support Etc but 
once you are slightly difficult and 
slightly cuz I was a pretty good kid to 
be honest right like I felt very 
reasonable for age appropriate let's say 
um then it was withdrawn right then 
there was a then there was a punishment 
and now I don't get love connection help 
support Etc and so you think about like 
as kiddos when we are going through 
things like that how that sets the 
foundation and framework for us don't be 
difficult Vienna because when you're 
difficult it means that people will 
disappear it means that you're not going 
to get the care love attention support 
that you want and so as long as you just 
keep pretending as long as you keep just 
performing then you can create the 
Illusion for yourself that everything is 
okay and everything is fine so you know 
that that worthiness when I think so 
many people can I saw your hand go up so 
my hand went up for those of you who 
aren't watching the video so I mean my 
parents are immigrants from India okay 
so I don't have to go through this we 
don't have you need to go you need to 
get the days you need to do you can be 
this or this you can be a doctor or a 
lawyer and I'm a dating coach and so 
there's lots of things that go into that 
worthiness wound and and you realize it 
and I know you've got a little one and 
one on the way when you're a parent 
you're like oh okay you need to get good 
grades wait am I messing them 
up right right well it's interesting 
right 
because I was just having this 
conversation with my husband as yes we 
have a three-year-old we have one on the 
way and like okay obviously we don't 
want them to experience trauma that 
would be really nice right like right 
like as as parents we're like okay how 
do we protect these sweet angels in the 
world and also we know and I know you've 
had Dr Ali on before she says our gifts 
and our wounds our pain are next door 
neighbors and I love that sound bite 
because what is so true is that so much 
of who we are the the the gift the skill 
set the asset Right comes from the pain 
right it's birthed from it I can tell 
you that I can listen to people's 
stories and remember every single detail 
so easily so well and that's a skill set 
as a therapist but it was birthed from 
having to watch a father who at the time 
was very manipulative gaset my mom I was 
The Observer of this constantly and 
survival and safety meant being able to 
track every single detail so perfectly 
in order to know what was true and what 
was not true she struggled to be able to 
track it I was the one who became 
hypervigilant in that space and was like 
catching him when detective vien totally 
right and like you know it's it's so you 
see oh gosh that came from this 
traumatic wounded experience for you and 
also here is the skill set that you now 
embody as an adult now going back to 
what my husband and I have been chatting 
about is like okay so H can people meet 
Excellence right without having to go 
through something terribly painful 
terribly traumatic and I think where 
we're where I've ended up at least for 
right now is that there's a difference 
between something that's contained 
versus something that's chaotic that we 
can go through initiations that we can 
meet our Edge that we can be pushed to 
an edge but that we can do that either 
safely or not safely at all and I think 
for so many of us it happens in a 
non-safe way and you know I think that 
just that piece of like our kiddos right 
it's like yeah how do we want to protect 
them and we also want to encourage them 
to to meet their Edge and to push and to 
find something that they love or 
inspired by or they're yeah excellent at 
Etc um but to how to do it in a 
contained way and a way that yeah maybe 
is more of an an initiation than a 
chaotic painful scary 
experience amen I took us off somewhere 
for I don't know where what the original 
question was but I I veered us down some 
path no the veering came from me as the 
mother of two teenagers it's like the 
inside musings that we have like yeah my 
parents and this and then when you are a 
parent it's like oh my gosh am I doing 
that to them it's like at a certain 
point I've gotten into listeners you 
know I have a 16-year-old and a 
20-year-old Jad and Max and and I've 
gotten into acceptance like I'm sure I'm 
going like the three negative things 
I've said are going to be the ones that 
stick in their heads right so all I can 
do now I'm like so have I given you any 
bad messages that you carry with you how 
can I love you better right they're like 
oh here we go again I'm like 
okay but that's the beauty I mean when 
when parents ask you know what can we do 
that's it and even if our teenagers roll 
their eyes at us or tell us to like just 
like hit the 
road it's like I hate the way you 
breathe uhuh right it's like it does 
great will take that but for them to 
hear and know that you are thinking 
about this that you're willing to have 
that conversation that you're you have 
the capacity to repair you know our 
greatest one of the greatest things that 
we can offer children is a willingness 
to repair a willingness to take 
ownership a willingness to take 
accountability I work with adults but 
adults who were all children at one 
point and everyone just wants 
acknowledgement and a lot of the time 
we're not going to get that you know 
there's going to be a blockage there but 
I think for the parents who are you know 
think either parents now raising 
children or thinking about raising 
children people are like how do you make 
sure that you don't screw up your kids 
you're like you're going to get so much 
wrong you're going to get you're going 
to say so many things that you wish you 
could take back you're going to try to 
limit that of course but you're not 
going to operate in this perfect system 
and your ability to hold yourself in 
high enough regard as a human being 
where you don't need to self-protect 
when someone says I'm hurt when someone 
says I'm disappointed when someone says 
you've let me down when you can hold 
yourself up and you don't need to 
self-protect then you're able to 
relationally protect which means that 
you're able to hear the story and 
experience of someone else whether that 
be it your child your partner whomever 
and that switch from self- protection 
only to relational protection which mind 
you relational protection includes you 
too so it doesn't mean all of a sudden 
you're not being self protected but to 
go from only self- protection to 
relational protection that says I am I 
can tolerate I have the capacity to hear 
you without needing to protect and 
defend myself without needing to explain 
it away without needing to you know yeah 
give you the context right that's one of 
the greatest gifts and so if we're doing 
that as parents or as partners we're 
doing a pretty good 
job so let the eye rolles come from the 
teenager shut up shut up shut up you 
know I hate you this what it's okay 
because at some point they will be so 
grateful for the acknowledgement the 
recognition the opening the ability to 
repair even if they don't take it at 
this point I that so we talked I love 
what you said a couple of minutes ago 
about one of the most important things 
we can do in dating for example is that 
recognition of patterns yeah right and 
so let's say dear listeners is driving 
taking a walk around Lake Michigan 
wherever he or she they are at this 
point and they're like yeah I think I do 
have a pattern and maybe I'm 
constantly dating people that are 
avoidant or they break my heart or I'm 
missing cues that you know they're 
behaving in a narcissistic way what what 
is what does someone do as part of the 
next step after self-awareness yeah so 
okay let's let's say you date someone 
who's avoidant you're pursuing someone 
who is emotionally unavail a and you 
keep going after it we want to 
understand what that choice is serving 
and what I mean by that is what is that 
choice actually protecting you from now 
you might hear me say that and be like 
nothing NADA that sounds local you know 
like like what what do you mean PR I 
don't want that I don't want that I want 
somebody who's available of course I do 
why would I choose that and yet our 
Behavior suggesting something else and 
so we have to again kindness Grace 
compassion love as we inquire about this 
but when our Behavior right is choosing 
something then we know that it's there's 
an operating system right that is not in 
our minds right like we have to really 
shift kind of out of that because it 
doesn't make practical sense to us 
doesn't make logical sense to us things 
don't don't seem rational to us and so 
when we get caught there and we're like 
this doesn't make sense it's like it 
does but you're trying to think your way 
through it instead of really kind of 
connecting to a very different form of 
intelligence if you will and so yeah 
what is it protecting me from by 
choosing someone who is emotionally 
unavailable okay so a couple of things 
maybe there's a fear of if I were to 
choose someone who were actually 
available I have the Poss possibility of 
needing to be vulnerable and I don't 
know how to be vulnerable or if I choose 
somebody who is actually available then 
my risk of falling in love and really 
getting close to someone and then 
getting hurt when I'm further down the 
road uh is more likely or if I choose 
somebody who is emotionally available 
then I might need to actually reveal 
myself to them or or or right like I 
mean this list can go on and I think 
again what what is it that I am 
protecting myself from through this 
choice right and so you know when again 
when I talk about the wounds in the book 
worthiness belonging prioritization 
safety and trust it what I'm what I'm 
describing is the origin stories the 
first the first experiences that really 
lay the foundation and sort of change 
our traj trory in the way in which we 
relate to the self and others and the 
World At Large through that lens I 
described worthiness just a little bit 
uh before belonging right a sense of 
okay can I Gabor mate talks about how 
our two lifelines as kiddos are 
attachment and authenticity but when 
attachment is threatened we will trade 
authenticity every single time sir 
survival we must we have to and so a lot 
of times people will grow up in a family 
system where okay this is who we are 
this is how we operate this is what we 
believe you have to adapt and adopt that 
otherwise you're out and so it can be a 
family system that's really controlling 
it's where the black sheep of the family 
maybe comes out if you became the rebel 
at some point um there might be sort of 
this sense of like ah I don't fit in 
here even though fitting in and 
belonging or different right it's like 
ah I don't feel like I fit in here I 
don't feel accepted here I don't feel 
seen or heard or understood or 
comprehended here and I have to change 
who I am in order to quote unquote 
belong belong yeah and so we lose our 
authenticity a lot of time with a 
belonging wound 
prioritization pretty straightforward 
where you didn't feel like you were in 
important to the important people in 
your life so maybe you had a parent or 
adult in your life who was a workaholic 
someone who struggled with addiction 
maybe you had a sibling who had mental 
health challenges um and a lot of the 
attention went there maybe there was 
high conflict in the relationship and 
that was the priority maybe there was a 
divorce and Mom started dating quite a 
bit and her dating life was the priority 
over you right like there's a lot of 
things that can play out to where it is 
we don't feel like we're the priority so 
you think about present day okay how do 
we show up in relationships are you 
someone who over prioritizes everyone 
else as an attempt to teach people and 
show people and model to people the way 
in which you want to feel prioritized do 
you choose a partner who even though it 
doesn't have to be Apples to Apples 
let's say you had an alcoholic parent 
but now you've chosen someone who works 
late every single day right that there 
is something else that is a priority in 
their lives and your experience is one 
in which you are feeling deep 
prioritized right so we're looking at 
the ways in which we partner with people 
where our wounds are actually getting 
rubbed up against the trust wound right 
also pretty straightforward where 
there's a rupture and trust this can be 
you know an infidelity it could be you 
know a parent gambling way a college 
fund it could be family secrets those 
are big ones that we hear a lot of 
whether it's you holding one or someone 
in the Family holding one from you and 
you finding out about it later and it 
creates a hyper vigil it does the same 
thing with safety when there's an 
absence of safety right it's like it 
turns us into this hyper Vigilant 
individual who's kind of scanning our 
environments and waiting for the other 
shoe to drop or waiting for something 
bad to happen or you know maybe you got 
the message growing up that you can't 
trust men anybody period right and it's 
like and now you you struggle with that 
narrative and it's really hard for you 
to move through the world believing 
people trusting that they're not lying 
to you trusting that they're not 
deceiving you trusting that they're 
caring for your overall well-being right 
and so when we look at these origin 
wounds a lot of the time we're going to 
see that The Unwanted pattern present 
day is really connected to 
that and so as you so beautifully 
articulated these Five Wounds I'm 
guessing many of us myself included can 
say 
yeah yep yep do we all have these in 
like a different weighted average as 
part of Being 
Human I would say that so I have some 
folks who will reach out to me and be 
like is it possible to have all 
five it's possible have all yeah 
absolutely and I think there's also ones 
where there's like a primary Orin wound 
right I have struggled with worthiness 
I've strugg struggled with trust I've 
struggled with safety uh prioritization 
and belonging are not ones that really 
ring the bell for me as much um and also 
of course like The Human Experience 
there can be moments and time where 
maybe we don't feel like we're belonging 
or we're feeling really lonely or we 
didn't feel like a priority to someone 
in an acute event we're not talking 
really about the oneoff moments though 
we're talking about the things that 
repeat over and over and over again of 
course when someone doesn't prioritize 
us most of us are like ah that kind of 
stung sucked you know right um but it 
doesn't necessarily take over for us 
wounds your resolution will take over 
more right it will be where we can't get 
over it right it'll be where we really 
struggle deeply with it and again those 
patterns is not going to play out if we 
don't have ear resolution around a wound 
the pattern really only plays out when 
there's ear resolution there when 
there's still work for us to do and you 
know the 
work listen it's not like a follow these 
four steps and you're done you know it's 
like this is not a you know Vogue 
article from 1990 uh but our work which 
I do dive obviously much further into in 
the book is about naming what our wounds 
are it's about being able to witness 
ourselves and so when you were talking 
about seeing that little girl that first 
grader who you know went through a lot 
and baby V baby V yeah right it's like 
there's a witnessing that has to happen 
there I'm a really big believer that you 
can't heal without witnessing witnessing 
has to take place and whether that is 
witnessing with self so I'm seeing 
myself or whether that's a therapist 
witnessing you or a partner witnessing 
you or a dear friend witnessing you 
right it can be anyone it doesn't have 
to be the person who put the pain there 
in the first place so thank goodness for 
that but witnessing does need to happen 
and when we witness what it does is it 
leads us to grief right which is just 
the authentic expression of emotion that 
comes forward when we are in this space 
of witnessing and I guide people through 
all of this but my big belief is that 
you know maybe heard the Victor Frankle 
it's a attributed to Victor Frankle 
Frankle the quote about between stimulus 
and response there is a pause right and 
in that pause is that is this space 
where we either we have the the 
opportunity for freedom and when we're 
doing this work what I believe happens 
is that we are extending the pause and 
when we're extending the pause what 
happens is we're we're giving ourselves 
an opportunity to choose and that's what 
I said at the beginning of our 
conversation is that healing is about 
moving from survival to choice right and 
so when we're doing this work to 
understand oof here's how I'm activated 
here's how I'm triggered right now or 
Here's the the red flag or here's the 
pattern o I see it oh this person I like 
want to keep pursuing them but I but I I 
know that they're I know that they're 
emotionally unavailable like I can I can 
see it right they're not responding to 
to me they they respond with you know 
one-word answers maybe when we go on the 
date and I ask questions they don't 
really want to go there you know they're 
never actually setting up the next date 
I'm the one who always has to do it and 
it takes a couple of weeks well yep uhuh 
uh right it's like all of those things 
and like okay we notice those moments 
and so then we're like okay but what do 
I know well I know that my worthiness 
wound gets activated here a lot and that 
I have historically believe that my 
worth is dependent on somebody else 
choosing me so I keep chasing this 
person to try to get them to choose me 
if I can just convince them that I'm 
great if we can I can just get to the 
fifth date then they'll become 
emotionally available all of a sudden 
whatever story we might tell ourselves 
and so when we're doing this work and we 
can understand oh this wound wants to 
grab the wheel but I've spent the time I 
have processed I have grieved I have 
have witnessed then I can stand there 
and I can choose I have the opportunity 
to choose differently and we still might 
not always choose differently in the 
moment right sometimes it's just about 
the awareness I always say like healing 
isn't always about the outcome right 
like healing is sometimes like I see my 
worthiness wound and I'm still going to 
pursue the emotionally unavailable 
person you know it's like all right 
that's okay that's part of the titration 
right to moving in that direction but if 
I can start to acknowledge this if I can 
start to name this right then I have 
more of a possibility and chance to 
choose differently and to get to the 
place where you know where I described 
when you asked me about the Catalyst in 
my life which was yeah this is hard and 
it wasn't like a big celebration 
afterwards but here was this moment in 
my mid- late 20s where I was finally 
saying I am bothered by it I am affected 
by it this isn't okay I don't feel 
respected and I did it differently and I 
was able to do it because I had done 
this work that I'm describing that I 
talk a lot about in the book 
and listen Big Gulp big breath because 
it's not easy work and it doesn't just 
happen like this you know I'm I'm 
speaking about it very quickly but it's 
you know this is this is Lifetime work 
but it's beautiful lifetime work because 
it's the work that gets us to the types 
of relationships That We crave the way 
that we want to see ourselves in 
relationship or this isn't just about 
attracting a certain type of partner 
this is about liking ourselves in 
relationships liking the way that we 
communicate liking the way that we 
navigate conflict gosh I 
was I can still be a point 
prover let me just lovingly call myself 
Point prover I love it you're like I 
have an Affliction it's called to be 
right I want to be right and I remember 
having a conflict with my husband before 
before it was my husband it's a spoiler 
alert it worked out but still I having 
this conflict I have no idea what the 
comy is about but I'm proving my point 
up and down doubling down tripling down 
he's like I got to be I understand and I 
keep going keep going keep going and you 
know the shame hits for a moment and 
then I replace it with curiosity as 
quickly as possible I'm like oh to be 
right was really correlated and 
connected to what it was like to be a 
kiddo watching 
gaslighting manipulation happen over and 
over and over again being right was 
quite literally safe being wrong was 
unsafe my dad was right my mom was wrong 
every single time based on his 
perspective and his ability to do what 
he did so masterfully and so to be right 
in Conflict was safety for me except my 
perceived safety was disconnective and 
damaging to a relationship ship and I 
just again very quickly share that story 
because our work in this is not just 
okay how do I fix my picker and you know 
get how are we showing up in a way where 
other people also want to be with us 
because that's not great to be a point 
prover all the time that is not I don't 
think anybody wants to be with a point 
prover all the time and around that 
that's not nice to be around and so it's 
not about shaming myself or guilt 
tripping self but it is about looking at 
that part understanding where it came 
from bringing some compassion forward 
and then working with it so that that 
part is not in the driver's seat so that 
I am in the driver's seat and I can 
navigate that differently and you can 
take that pause to your point vnn 
instead of I you know with our clients I 
call it you can choose in that moment to 
respond versus react yeah and so you we 
talk about picking partners that are 
better for us our work is also being a 
better partner and you're right this is 
about the work and it's continuing to 
self- titrate 
through through all of it I mean I can 
tell you as having been married for 27 
years it's a constant it's it's a 
constant Evolution but the good news is 
is that when you continue to do I don't 
think we ever get to the point where we 
can just stop holding up the mirror 
right even when we get better sometimes 
it feeds that like wow let me look what 
was my role in this like could I have 
been better right and and but being open 
to that growth and to your point which I 
love it is you can witness it but then 
you be 
compassionate about it I did the best I 
could in that moment versus going god 
I'm an idiot I blew it again I just mess 
this up I mess everything up because 
that's so damning at the end of the day 
so looking and speaking to yourself like 
you would speak to your best friend so 
important yes thanks for saying that 
we're so not good at that sometimes 
myself included I know it's easy to get 
lost in that but that's the work right 
to bring curiosity and compassion 
forward you know when we have access to 
it to try to have access to it as much 
as 
possible well I know um I could talk to 
you for another 10 episodes or 10 hours 
but let me ask you two questions number 
one is there anything I didn't ask you 
that you would like to impart to smart 
daters and if yes Drew and also where 
can we get more Vienna tell us about the 
book tell us about all of the things you 
yeah yeah 
well I think you were saying this before 
which is don't forget about your own 
experience in the dating process again A 
lot of times we're really conditioned to 
try to get others to want us choose us 
desire us pick us Etc and we lose track 
of what it is that we actually feel and 
what it is that we actually want and 
whether we actually like this person or 
are interested in a second third fourth 
date with this person I also say and I 
said this before but it's worth 
reiterating is that change will ask you 
to tolerate 
discomfort and we have to get willing 
and capable of doing that because moving 
in the direction of the things that you 
say you want will likely require you 
to disappoint some people it will likely 
require you to end things uh 
and when you normally don't you know 
it's like it's just like the gut punches 
and so to be able to begin to tolerate 
that and trust that in your expansion of 
the tolerances actually you moving in 
the direction of what you actually want 
and say you want um okay where you can 
find me you can find me at mindful mft 
on Instagram you can find me at Vienna 
far.com New York couples counseling.com 
um I have a group practice uh where we 
are in person in New York but we also 
service a lot of other states as well so 
if people are looking for for therapists 
um I have a wonderful crew uh and yeah 
the book is called the origins of you 
how breaking family patterns can 
Liberate the way we live in love uh it's 
deep work uh and really beautiful work 
and there's a lot of Storytelling that I 
do in the book which I think is a really 
great way to learn because sometimes 
when we're looking at our own selves 
we're a little bit more prickly but when 
we're learning through other people's 
stories right it's like oo I can see 
myself or I can see this part in someone 
else and so sometimes it can be a 
gentler invitation uh into 
self-reflection and self inquiry uh so I 
hope that people will pick up a copy and 
start reading or listening today oh 
we'll put it in the show notes for sure 
so thank you so much for spending this 
time with us I feel I feel a little more 
expansive after this 
so super awesome and smart daters 
remember 
um continue to look at yourselves and 
this process and continue to know and I 
want you to take this you guys know be 
psychotically optimistic about the fact 
that love is out there for you and a 
better happier love than you have had so 
I want you to have a little kick in your 
step and know that we have sprinkled 
this good Juju on you for this week and 
until our next episode thank you for 
listening and thank you for being here 
BNA thanks for having me 
