[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back happy Monday I couldn't be 
more excited to introduce you to the 
most esteemed guest I love her she's 
amazing a good human a prolific author a 
professor 
she's a senior research fellow at the 
Kinsey Institute Chief scientific 
adviser to match.com which ironically is 
where we met in the fall of 2012 Dr 
Helen Fischer welcome to the Smart 
dating Academy 
podcast paella thank you thank you thank 
you I mean I remember when we met and 
you know you've traveled far as I 
figured that you would and and here we 
are talking about something really 
important which is love which is love 
love so why don't you you know let's big 
question what is love yeah you know 
everybody has a different opinion of 
what love is and everything from The 
Poets to the astronomers but uh you know 
because I'm an academic um first of all 
it's got a lot of characteristics I mean 
when I first uh first uh um you know I 
wanted to put people in brain scanners 
as you know and and find the brain 
circuitry of this intense human drive 
and it is a drive by the way I mean 
there's you got a lot of thoughts you 
got a lot of feelings emotions but it's 
basically a drive it comes from the most 
primitive part of the brain that you 
know associated with focus and 
motivation and craving and Obsession and 
of course it evolved so that we could 
fall in love and send our DNA into 
tomorrow so it's a very strong by the 
way I'm assuming you're talking about 
romantic love because I romantic love 
yeah because I think as you know you 
know we've evolved three distinctly 
different brain systems for mating and 
reproduction sex drive being one 
feelings of intense romantic love being 
the second and feelings of deep 
attachment being the third so romantic 
love so here are the basic traits of it 
um that I've collected from I don't know 
50 years of reading poetry and academic 
papers anyway 
firstly when you fall in love oh yeah 
you know by the way the very first 
academic MC article I wrote about 
romantic love I submitted it and one of 
the four peer reviewers wrote back and 
said you can't study love it's part of 
the 
Supernatural and I said hang on here you 
know fear is not part of the 
supernatural anger is not part of the 
supernatural happiness is why wouldn't 
this be I mean people live for love they 
kill for love they die for love they 
Pine for love I was one of the most 
profoundly basic feelings that we've 
ever evolved so anyway here are the 
basic traits of romantic love the first 
thing that happens is a person takes on 
what I call special meaning everything 
about them is special the car they uh 
Drive is different from every car in the 
parking lot the street they live on the 
music that they everything about them 
Bec is amazing it is and then you focus 
on them you know I mean when I put 
people in the brain scanner I would say 
well what do you not like about him or 
her they could list it and then they 
just swept it aside and just focused and 
just focused on what they really liked 
about him or her high energy you can 
walk all night talk till dawn um 
Euphoria when things are going well uh 
mood swings into horrible despair when 
it's going poorly all kinds of bodily 
reactions you know um weak knees 
butterflies in the stomach dry mouth um 
real emotional dependence I mean uh you 
know as Walt Whitman once said he said 
oh I would stake all for you I mean they 
just you wait by the phone you check 
your your emails you do your text 
messages you drop you know just 
emotional dependence on this person real 
separation anxiety you don't like to be 
a part um what I call 
frustration uh attraction I made up the 
term um basically it's when they don't 
call when they don't write 
um you just want them more you know it's 
like going down to the basement to get a 
candy bar out of sub machine and there's 
no candy bars now you're willing to walk 
10 blocks to get a candy bar in the same 
way um you know when when it's 
frustrated and we know the brain 
circuitry of that when you can't get 
what you want you just want it more you 
want it more Yep um but anyway um 
certainly possessiveness jealousy uh in 
Academia we call it m guarding um sexual 
desire you know you really want to kiss 
and hug with this person but even more 
than that the three main characteristics 
of romantic love are craving not for sex 
but for emotional Union you want them 
all you want them to ask you out you 
want them to say that they love you so 
uh emotional uh craving for emotional 
Union intrusive thinking somebody's 
camping in your head and they Camp you 
wake up thinking about about them you go 
to bed thinking about them they are in 
your head obsessed yeah OB it is an 
obsession uh it's an addiction we've 
proven that um and the last thing is 
you're highly motivated to win the 
person so the three main traits are 
craving for emotional Union obsessive 
thinking intrusive thinking it's called 
and high motivation plus all these other 
things last but not least it's 
involuntary you know it's a little it's 
like thirst and hunger in fact you know 
know I mean you can't control thirst and 
hunger and you can't control the feeling 
you can try to control not going to your 
text messages and tight giving them the 
their your 13th message in the hour Etc 
ETA but the actual feeling is quite 
involuntary which made me realize oh and 
not now I've proven this but the actual 
feeling comes out of a tiny little 
Factory near the base of the brain 
called the vental metal area or the VTA 
that little which makes dopamine and 
sends that dopamine to many brain 
regions giving you the oh the focus the 
energy the Euphoria the body reactions 
the craving the obsessive thing Etc but 
that little factoring the VTA lies right 
next to the factory that orchestrates 
thirst and 
hunger thirst and hunger keep you alive 
today romantic love drives you to form a 
partnership and send your DNA into 
tomorrow so for the if finally occurred 
to me I I figured that it was an emotion 
or a whole pile of emotions it's a 
drive mating drive that evolved millions 
of years ago and will surely be with us 
as long as we survive as a 
species so interesting and I think was 
it you that said lust is Nature's Way of 
tricking us into 
attachment I wasn't but I wish I had but 
I would actually not even agree entirely 
because you know that's the third of 
these emotions I mean there's a sex 
drive there's feelings of intense 
romantic love and there's feelings of 
deep attachment and I think you can 
easily have sex with somebody you're not 
in love with and never want to attach to 
I do think it's it's romantic love which 
is Mother Nature's Wicked Mother Nature 
um that when you fall madly in love with 
somebody that will often lead on to 
feelings of deep 
attachment you know in our practice 
Smart dating academy one of the things 
that we do in our coaching is to help 
people choose people that are good 
romantic long-term partners for them 
long term sometimes people will say well 
I don't know if I can help who I'm 
attracted to like what do you think 
about that I have an opinion on it I 
think we can but I want to hear it from 
you the expert well I'd like to hear 
from you too because you're an expert 
um I think in the beginning in the 
beginning when you suddenly realize that 
somebody's really a genuine alcoholic or 
a real 
liar uh or just you can't really you 
know I think you can walk away 
absolutely I do think that I think you 
can walk away from something that is 
very intense it's just hard hard when we 
when we put people in that we put um our 
first experiment was put 17 people who 
were madly in love and happily in love 
into the brain scanner and the second 
was people who have been rejected in 
love and in both cases we found activity 
in the main brain region linked with 
addiction the nucleus succumbent this is 
the brain region that becomes active 
with any addiction all of the substance 
addictions everything from alcohol and 
cigarettes to cocaine and heroin um and 
all the behavioral addictions everything 
from gambling addiction or sex addiction 
so this is the basic brain region linked 
with all the addictions and sure enough 
it is highly active when you're madly in 
love even if you know perfectly well 
this is wrong you know and all your 
friends tell you it's wrong it's but we 
do we I mean basically I think we learn 
we learn say oh no no I'm not doing that 
one again forget about it what what 
would you say I'm curious as I love this 
nucleus it comes so what you're saying 
is it feels like an addiction so even if 
you know for example this salt but this 
not good for you right but suddenly 
you're getting a lot of dopamine you're 
getting flooded with dopamine at this 
point so even though you know this is 
bad for you you still go back for more 
exactly and I've done it myself I've 
walked towards the phone in the old days 
you know before email and I've said 
don't call call him Helen I mean really 
Helen just don't call him Helen as I'm 
punching those buttons you know and then 
all the drunk dialing that people 
do and and and there's this eternal hope 
that maybe this could work out I mean my 
twin sister um was madly in love with a 
guy for 10 years he dumped her and she 
looks back at it now and says thank God 
it didn't happen you know and she went 
out with other men and everything but he 
was always 
really in her heart and the beauty of it 
Bella is when you finally reach 
indifference no longer you know you 
don't care anymore I mean you might like 
the you certainly remember them you know 
uh I mean I've studied rejection and put 
people in the scanner and the me you 
don't kill the memory of it but you kill 
the feeling the craving the drive the 
obsession that goes with that memory 
yeah yeah and that probably to some 
extent might be a function of time I'm 
guessing and like staying away from the 
person you got it you got both of them 
absolutely I mean that's one of the 
things that I say when you've been 
rejected in love treat it as an 
addiction throw out the cards and 
letters don't write don't call don't 
show up don't ask your friends about 
them um go do novel things with other 
people that'll drive up dopamine get 
hugs from Friends that'll drive up the 
oxytocin level but you're absolutely 
right we've proven in the brain that 
time does heal and because when you have 
been rejected in love um we find in the 
in the brain scanner activity in the 
same vental take midal area you're 
pumping out the dopamine you're stealing 
feeling the intense romantic Madness we 
also find activity in the brain region 
link with deep 
attachment and as time goes by so we put 
people in the machine who had only been 
dumped three weeks ago and people who 
had been dumped uh 17 months ago and and 
still couldn't get over it but we found 
that the longer you get away from that 
final moment of of rejection the less 
and less activity there is in the in 
it's called the vental padum a brain 
region link with feelings of attachment 
so the attachment 
recedes okay so the old adage Time Heals 
all wound 
has some truth to it yeah AB now you 
still remember it but it doesn't have 
that impact thank God you know I began 
to wonder I mean why do we go through 
such troubles I mean why I mean isn't it 
so from a darwinian perspective a little 
maladaptive to suffer for months or 
years when you've been dumped by 
somebody who really would wasn't any 
good for you and then I began to think 
about it I said well nobody else has 
suggested this so I got to think about 
it and I thought right well certainly 
You've Lost Your Daily habits you might 
have lost when you've been dumped right 
you you may have you've certainly lost 
your daily habits and rituals you 
probably have lost some friends you may 
have lost your home or the dog or the 
cat or even children uh you may have 
have lost um the rituals at Christmas or 
whatever you know uh where you go 
annually you don't know if your 
neighbors still like you uh etc etc but 
what you've really lost is an 
opportunity to reproduce I mean if 
you're young and you are hoping to have 
babies with somebody you have 
jeopardized your ability to send your 
DNA onto tomorrow and if you have um a 
husband or somebody and children and and 
or a wife and the person leaves you've 
lost a parenting partner so from a basic 
biological I mean not only do you suffer 
from the cultural problems of lack of 
money lost the house lost the dog lost 
the kid lost the this and 
that but you've you've you've 
jeopardized your your genetic future and 
this is suffer so much yeah the day 
comes you know there's basic stages to 
rejection I mean first is shock takes 
about two weeks of shock and then hope 
you try to you hope for this and then 
comes protest you you fight back you 
know I mean women will uh try to 
understand they'll try to compromise 
they'll try to seduce uh men will try to 
make the woman Jealous by going out with 
somebody else or showing off their money 
or this or that um and when the protest 
doesn't work then you slip into the next 
stage which is resignation and despair 
and that's when men particularly will 
hold up and watch TV uh uh drive too 
fast drink too much women will talk 
incessant ly about 
it and they and that's the problem in 
the beginning it's good to make up your 
story um and get it out but uh they talk 
so much that they begin to they're just 
resurrecting The Ghost and ret 
traumatizing themselves but anyway after 
this rejection stage comes indifference 
and finally post-traumatic growth and 
you say to yourself I'm not doing that 
again right we hope we hope we hope we 
hope and then and then you look at the 
divorce statistics right which are 40 to 
50% for first marriages 67% for second 
marriages 75% for third marriages it's 
like okay we hope we're going to grow 
and this kind of Loops back to what we 
were talking about it can you 
choose who you become attracted to and I 
think over the last 14 years we've seen 
yes you can when you date consciously 
you might be driven to find someone who 
I mean if we get you know Freudian let's 
say that's like my father or like my 
mother or like my brother but if you 
become not just aware of that but then 
if you're actually going to take action 
around it right so we will literally be 
in our clients they have dating 
scorecards and graphs and things to 
really help them through the process of 
red flags but really saying okay I think 
you're going down the same bad path 
again instead we have them look for what 
we call it's our new trademark called 
elevator people we have them Define the 
elevator people in their life the people 
that elevate you that make you happiest 
in your happiest relationships Define 
those characteristics and then we're 
going to start to prioritize those and 
how you want to feel so what happens is 
it's like the red sweater effect if I 
say Helen go into a party and tell me 
the 17 people that are wearing Reds red 
and you'll say okay or tell me the 
people that tell me how many people are 
wearing red you might come back and say 
okay there's 17 like but how many people 
were wearing purple and you're like you 
told me to look for red I didn't look 
for purple and and it's the same thing 
that when you start to prioritize 
different things I tell my clients it's 
like putting on a new set of lenses what 
you focus on will come into Focus 
ultimately so if you're looking at 
something that doesn't feel as 
compelling in the beginning but you stay 
the course you focus on this you give 
this like you'll let a bottle of wine 
breathe for an hour before you have a 
dinner party let the dates breathe give 
this person three five six dates take it 
slowly so you had asked before what like 
I do think I'm I don't I wouldn't say 
it's easy to not repeat old patterns and 
kind of be have someone not good for you 
light your flame and want to walk in 
that direction but with conscious effort 
and a plan I think you can choose people 
that are really good for you I think 
that's very cool I really really think 
that's very cool and I I do actually 
think that some societ 
um Trends are helping that and I wrote a 
lot about this it's I I call you the 
term slow love oh I love fact thank you 
um the fact that you know oh 50 years 
ago or so you know women married around 
age 21 and Men married around age 22 or 
23 now women are marrying at age it says 
this is the average or the median 
actually uh marrying around age uh 28 29 
and men are married around age 30 31 and 
the point being that there's this long 
period of um what I call the 
pre-commitment stage of of relationships 
is so much longer and what they're doing 
a lot of people are doing is just trying 
people out and they're before they marry 
and before they have the babies you know 
they're going to get rid of what they 
don't want learn more about themselves 
so that they can now focus on what they 
do and just to your point there about 
five or six days um I've looked in 80 
cultures through the demographic 
yearbooks of the United Nations and the 
longer you court and the older you are 
when you marry uh the less likely you 
are to 
divorce data on 3,000 Americans that 
said if you court for one to two years 
before you're married um you uh are 20% 
less likely to divorce and if you court 
for three or more years uh before you 
marry you're 39% less likely to divorce 
and that's what we're seeing around the 
world this slow love getting to know 
yourself trying people out getting rid 
of what you want before you got a family 
with that person and moving on and my 
hypothesis is that if you live you know 
spend good deal of time with somebody 
before you marry by the time you walk 
down that aisle you know who you got got 
you know you want who you got and you 
think you can keep who you've got and 
all the data show that that's the truth 
and I think is one of the reasons that 
I'm very happy about where we're at 
right now we got people like you giving 
you giving you a road map which is 
brilliant I loved what you just said um 
but uh also you've got 
time you know the society is no longer 
pressing uh pressing the young I mean I 
remember you know my husband has a son 
who's 24 well I don't know 50 years ago 
he would be regarded as you 
know long in the tooth for marriage I 
mean you know and now we say to him 
you're too young you have much to learn 
and figure out and try out before and I 
think that's the general attitude and I 
think it's a very healthy 
attitude I love that and just on a side 
note you are somewhat recently married 
tell us about we want to hear your love 
Journey the love gurus fell in love and 
got married isn't that amazing B amazing 
it is first of all I married him at age 
75 oh and um three years ago and as you 
can see I'm very spry I'm still very 
middle-aged all that um you're not old 
till you're old but anyway um I really 
wasn't looking to marry um um I had here 
I am probably pretty well known for 
studying love but and I had had three 
very long and really wonderful 
Partnerships and I've had many 
opportunities to marry and I've chosen 
not to and uh but anyway I'm crazy about 
this man I mean nuts about him I'm we've 
been going out for nine years I'm still 
in love with them by the way we've 
proven that we must talk about what 
happens in the brain in long-term real 
happy marriages but anyway the botom 
line is so we went out for about 5 
years and um then he asked me to marry 
him and I said to him I said well I'll 
be well I mean this was before he got 
down on his knee when he got down on his 
knee it was very romantic but this was 
before that and he said well I'm going 
to marry you Helen Fisher he said that 
one night at dinner and I said oh I said 
that's 
interesting um well I would marry you of 
course but I'm not moving 
in and I have not moved in now he lives 
up in the Bronx I live in Manhattan uh I 
have a small apartment he's got a nice 
big one but you know two or three nights 
a week uh I like to go out with my 
girlfriends I like to go to the theater 
I like to do this and that and he loves 
to sit there and read uh or watch sports 
Etc so 
uh I don't know if that I mean I I 
always intended to give him anything I 
had I had never had any intention of of 
leaving him ever ever um but I hadn't 
thought of marrying him and I say to him 
sweetheart why is it different that 
we're married because for 
me it really isn't different I like his 
name better than mine I haven't changed 
it but I'm too old for that but I like 
his name better and there times that I 
go with his last name which which I 
really like but no I've always felt that 
same intense feeling but he says it's 
richer and deeper and that's what it is 
to him but I should tell you this one uh 
I don't know if you have time for a 
story but absolutely it's a Charming 
story well he had been inter he he 
worked for the New York Times as as a 
writer for 21 years and he had 
interviewed me several times in the past 
but and I knew him but you know I never 
put the make on a journalist and he 
doesn't make put the anyway the bottom 
line is we both invited to a very fancy 
Ranch uh way in the mountains you have 
to either walk in uh 11 miles or take a 
horse and wagon because it's um it's 
right on Yellowstone between Yellowstone 
and another National Park so you can't 
go in motorized anyway they this fellow 
our good friend of ours invited us 
separately I mean I barely knew him John 
his name is John John Tierney and um 
during that week I really liked him but 
I wasn't going to Pi make any moves but 
anyway the bottom line is he offered to 
give me a a ride back to the Boseman 
airport so we were the only two in the 
car and uh it was a two and a half hour 
drive during the quest of this he tells 
me that he's going through this terrible 
divorce which he was and then he says 
I'm never going out with another I'm 
never getting serious about another 
woman I'm never going to and I think to 
myself 
geez I'm the only one in the car he's 
I'm trying to tell me something is this 
a message are you telegramm me exactly 
and part of me was Charmed that he was 
so honest and part of me was 
hurt but anyway so for about a year he 
would invite me to the Opera he'd invite 
me to this place and every six weeks and 
then we he'd walk me to the subway give 
me a big hug and uh and I'd go home 
alone so after a year of this he invited 
me to go um um out to dinner and walk 
the Highland which is a beautiful walk 
in middle of Manhattan and then go play 
pool so I said fine and I don't know 
Bella what came over me I had not 
planned this in the in before and we 
were having our drinks and I pulled the 
cocktail napkin out from underneath my 
drink and I said to I said why don't we 
just secretly write down what we would 
like to have if we went at pool on this 
[ __ ] on our cocktail napkin so I wrote 
down on mine a real kiss fed up with the 
hug and this is a 
year a date to month basically after a 
year and he I didn't know what he 
written down so we go play pool and sure 
enough he had grown up with a pool table 
in his basement I probably played pool 
five times he creamed 
me so I opened his uh cocktail napkin 
and it wrote sex and 
clarity and I said okay I got the sex 
part but what do you have in mind for 
clarity and basically he wanted friends 
with 
benefits and I said to him I said uh we 
we started walking up town it was way 
too late it was like 3: in the morning 
way too late to start anything and I 
said to him I said listen you know I 
study love and when you start to have 
sex with 
somebody you can drive the dopamine 
system and fall in love are you willing 
to take that chance and he said 
yes wow and and did you ask yourself am 
I willing to take oh I was totally for 
it I was totally oh no I was I was I was 
after him but being you're ready to hop 
in I was ready to hop into the whole 
enchilada and then after about three 
months this is I think helpful maybe 
helpful for your listeners 
um after about three months but he had a 
son and he was a single father he had to 
get home for dinner I understood why he 
wanted the Friends with Benefits he'd 
gone through a horrible divorce really 
bad and he and his son just weren't 
ready for anything so he would come over 
in the afternoon we'd kiss and hug and 
he would go we'd go out for dinner so it 
wasn't quite friends with benefits and 
then he'd go home which was okay anyway 
uh I was madly in love with them of 
course and after about 3 months uh he 
said to me he said you know Helen I just 
can't take anymore I can't take anything 
I'm so overwhelmed with this incredible 
problem with this for wife and uh and 
being a single father we'll have to 
break up I said okay I three months in 
to this new sex and Clarity relationship 
yes it was the end of everything and 
uh I start at the edge of my bed and 
cried and played songs to kill yourself 
[Laughter] 
by but Bella I never called I never 
wrote and I never showed 
up and during that period of 
time he came to understand that here was 
a woman that wasn't going to pin him to 
the 
floor that he would be free to come back 
if he wanted to I mean you know I didn't 
think he would ever come back I I I I I 
believed him um but he learned that I 
wasn't going to be a 
clingy uh thing and about six weeks 
later he wrote me a note and said uh I 
think I made a terrible mistake so then 
I thought to myself well okay made this 
mistake what should I do now should I 
invite him back over in the 
afternoon do we pick up where we left 
off 
John which I did and and finally and 
we're extreme extremely happily married 
you can remain in love long term I have 
proven that in the 
brain Wow have you guys been in the 
scanner um no oh okay thought you're 
like I have approved this I'm 
like well what I did what I I actually 
put myself in this scanner before we've 
put over a 100 people in the scanner 
doing studying various things that I I 
always felt that I should go in first 
before I put anybody in I thought it 
would be unethical actually to uh you 
know you lie in there with your head in 
a bit of a vice for you know an hour I 
mean you make we make you very 
comfortable warm blankets you know uh 
you know pillows under your knees you 
know I I really prepare people but 
nevertheless I so I've been in but no I 
didn't even know him I went in in 200 I 
don't know three when I started my brain 
scanning but anyway wow with um 17 
people who were in their 50s and 60s s 
they were all married an average of 21 
years and they all kept coming into the 
lab saying to me I'm still in love with 
her not just loving but in love with 
her 
um after this long in these long 
marriages you know new Americans don't 
believe that you can remain in love long 
term they say oh it moves into 
attachment and that's that that's not 
true 
um you can remain in love as well as 
deeply attached because we put these 17 
people into the brain scanner and sure 
enough did exactly the same experiment 
that we did with the people who had just 
Fallen happily in love young people and 
we were able to see exactly the same 
pattern in the brain uh now there was 
one difference um we saw exactly the 
same uh activity in the vental T metal a 
area pumping out the dopamine giving you 
that Elation you Euphoria giddiness Etc 
we found also of course a great deal of 
activity in brain regions L with 
attachment and the sex 
drive but what we didn't find was 
activity in a certain part of the 
insular cortex a little area linked with 
anxiety when you have just Fallen madly 
in love you're anxious what did I say 
that for am I too fat am I too thin I 
should I shouldn't what should I wear 
how you're anxious you're just anxious 
and of course after 21 years of marriage 
people are no longer anxious although I 
must say there are times that I I said 
I'll say something to my husband uh and 
then I think later about I say oh I 
maybe I shouldn't have said that and I 
do get anxious but I think that's 
because I'm still in love with them yeah 
because you care you love you never want 
to hurt no and you you don't want to get 
anything on the wrong foot foot 
and oh no I'm if I wasn't so deathly 
afraid of MRIs that's a whole another I 
crawl out of tubes all the time I'm a 
terrible 
claustrophobe and so am I oh 
I like if I think about it yeah I 
literally go 
into panic and someone said well you can 
take some Xanax I'm like you don't know 
my brain I think it would need general 
anesthesia by the way you know I I I 
told all the people that I mean I don't 
even after I die I don't want them to 
put me in a box yes no create me please 
the Indians we create absolutely put me 
in the ocean you know I'll feed the fish 
but I'm not sitting in a box even if I'm 
dead um no and I had to um and so I had 
to put myself in and by the way before I 
put in anybody else I just thought it 
was I said 
unethical and so I 
I did go in and I used a line from 
Shakespeare's King Le uh and the line is 
at one point that way Madness lies that 
way Madness lies and then I would say 
Helen don't touch the 
sides don't look at the 
sides you know uh but the the guy that 
runs the scanner who said he said Helen 
you're not that Clos because somebody 
like you Bella probably can't even look 
at the 
machine I can look at it I I'll look at 
it but as soon as as soon as I go in to 
right here you're dead I'm like I gotta 
get out I gotta get out so um so I am 
going to get an MRI on my lower back but 
I found my girlfriend who's also clust 
told me there's a sitting machine that 
you can go to up in the 
suburbs but I would your head and 
shoulders probably would not be in it no 
and you're sitting in a little machine 
I'm like okay but I think the f I I love 
everything you've done that's amazing 
that people can be in love in their 50s 
and all of the regions light up like the 
newly in love people in their 20s or 30s 
I'm guessing but the ones that have been 
married longer have lower anxiety how 
beautiful is that isn't it beautiful you 
know amazing yeah we were built by the 
way to um uh you know to have good 
relationships you know I'm sure you know 
this but people in good relationships 
live five to seven years longer and just 
plain old healthier I mean in a good 
positive relationship it lowers blood 
pressure lowers cholesterol and cortisol 
the stress hormone um you sustain your 
mood and your memory and mental agility 
better when you have a long solid real 
good relationship when you get hugs from 
somebody um it's driving up the oxytocin 
giving you feelings of calm and security 
as you laugh with somebody it's driving 
up the dopamine system and that's uh 
boosting the immune system and even 
boosting the endorphins for for less 
pain and when you play with somebody 
there's brain growth and you know we 
were built to love we were built to love 
and people will say well why after the 
years of reproduction would you why 
would it have been adaptive to sustain 
this brain system for romantic love and 
basically it's because having this kind 
of positive experience I mean let's dial 
back in million years on the grasslands 
of Africa you you're traveling a little 
hunting the Gathering group and you're 
in your 
60s uh you know and if you've got 
somebody who you can trust and confide 
in who respects you who makes you laugh 
who spends enough time with you but also 
gives you those hugs for the oxytocin 
and the laughter that drives up the 
dopamine and you can play with them it's 
good for the whole band it's good the 
whole neighborhood if people are in good 
uh you know in good uh have have 
somebody by the way you know you're 
talking about divorce it's so 
interesting the 
worldwide I looked at divorce in this 
one of my books in anatomy of love I 
looked at divorce of course all over the 
world 
and um the worldwide 
attitude that seems to be most expressed 
is summed up by the Mongol people of 
Siberia who say if two people 
cannot live harmoniously together they 
had better live 
apart wow and of course for millions of 
years we lived in these little hunting 
and Gathering groups and it would have 
been very maladaptive to have people 
fighting and screaming at each other and 
you know hurting each other 
Etc you know and so it was we've evolved 
this tremendous need to find the right 
partner and enjoy the right partner and 
actually leave when things are no 
goddamn good 
so I love that these days we actually 
can you know on the far you were really 
stuck uh you know I mean you really 
can't move cut the wheat field in half 
and move it out of town you can't cut 
the cow in half you know I mean these 
days at least you can divide a $10 bill 
uh you know and divide the money for the 
house etc etc so actually what's really 
happening is we're moving forward to the 
kinds of Partnerships that we had a 
million years ago in a million years ago 
uh men and women were really economic 
equals women to together their fruits 
and vegetables they came home with 60 to 
80% of the evening meal the double 
income family was the rule and either 
the men or the woman could walk out if 
they needed to and find a happier 
partnership we're moving forward to the 
Past really and I'm very excited about 
it I am too you know as we as we guide 
people through their relationships right 
once they you know at through our 
coaching process once they find an 
exclusive partner then it's are we in 
alignment is this person really an 
elevator person for you and and we've 
you know miraculously had zero divorces 
in 14 
years isn't that wonderful since the 
Inception of the company now not 
everybody wants to get married but those 
that do what's interesting Helen is many 
people people that say I don't need to 
get married again I don't want to get 
married when you meet the right person 
they're like you know what I do want to 
do this because what did John say it's 
richer and deeper and deeper and you 
feel that when you meet the right person 
and I tell women especially at this 
point and we coach a lot of women that 
relationships where we are true Partners 
we the vend diagrams of of what's 
traditionally male and traditionally 
female have a closer intersection those 
relationships become more healthy long 
term to your point if we I said think 
about being in a car you both have your 
driver's licenses you can both drive but 
you can also switch and be the 
passengers that's a great relationship 
if you need to drive you can drive and 
when you're sleepy he can drive and vice 
yep that's lovely 
and uh yeah I mean my relationship is 
absolutely Charming absolutely 
delightful and you know what um let's 
say when we're on the subway and he'll 
give me a kiss I rather like people 
seeing an older couple being romantic 
with each other I'm tired of thinking 
that old people are older people are not 
yeah this a brain system that lasts all 
your life and uh you know I'm sure you 
have people who are older do you have 
people who were older a significant part 
of our population are singles over 50 
you know and that's why when people ask 
me what do you think about the golden 
Bachelor I'm like it's about time right 
isn't the data show that 35 million of 
the 118 million singles are over the age 
of 50 I'm like that's a sizable part of 
the population if you strip out you know 
18 to 28 it becomes an even more 
substantial percentage of the population 
and speaking of that I wanted to go back 
a little bit in detail if you don't mind 
about the people that have been happily 
married for over 20 years and their 
brains light up in the same way are 
there things that contribute to that 
like things that we can do in our 
relationships that you know whether dear 
listener you're in a new relationship 
you've been in a relationship for two 
years or you're like me and you've been 
married over 20 years wonderful question 
and I've got what I think is just a 
wonderful answer about the brain it's 
not my answer it's the brain's answer I 
just stumbled onto it but anyway we yes 
we put 17 people into the brain scanner 
we did exactly the same experiment and 
of course before you put anybody in a 
brain scanner well with with us anyway 
you we give them lots of questionnaires 
and one of the questionnaires was a 
questionnaire on happiness and so after 
putting the 17 people in the question 
into the fmri brain scanner and found 
that sure enough they were still in love 
deeply attached sex drive was cooking 
along Etc we comp we looked at those who 
were really happy we compared those who 
scored very high in our happiness scale 
with what happens in the brain and this 
is what the brain says about longterm 
happiness psychologists say a lot of 
wonderful thing about what keeps a happy 
relationship ship together this is what 
the brain says three brain regions 
became activated a brain region linked 
with empathy a brain region linked with 
controlling your own stress and your own 
emotions and a brain region linked with 
um overcoming the negative posi 
Illusions there's a huge brain region uh 
linked with what's called negativity 
bias we are built to remember a negative 
and that's been adaptive for millions of 
years let's say you and were walking 
along uh the grasslands of Africa I 
don't know 500,000 years ago and it was 
great that you like me and I liked you 
but if we forgot the girl that didn't 
like us we could die I mean you know you 
could go to a party and everybody will 
say oh this that next and then one 
person will say have you gained a little 
weight what do you do you go home that's 
all you remember we we remember the 
negative for good evolutionary darwinian 
reasons and activity in that brain 
region with remembering the negative 
with negativity bias 
reduces so you're able to overlook the 
negative so empathy controlling your own 
stress and your own emotions and the 
ability to overlook the negative uh 
positive 
Illusions and for example in my life I 
my husband's a brilliant man and he's 
truly hilarious I mean it's an 
outstanding trait of his and he's 
wonderfully sexy he's just got it all 
but he cannot turn out a light he just 
simply can't turn out a light and I got 
some fancy lights in here where you just 
just don't turn the ball but you got to 
get all kinds of screwdrivers and open 
big 
fancy things I want the lights turned 
out he can't turn out a light just can't 
turn out a light so first I said 
sweetheart could you turn out the 
lights that didn't work 
then I saidwell you know I I gave him 
some if you turn out the lights then d 
da d da D that didn't work at all and 
then I started to bargain with him and I 
finally said Helen give up just go turn 
out the light and as I go turn out the 
light I say well he didn't turn out the 
light but he's so hilarious he's so 
Charming he's so good-looking he's so 
interesting he's so so sexy I'm just 
overlooking the 
negative oh my gosh and I bet if I asked 
you to make a list of the people in your 
life that make you happiest and make you 
feel really good about yourself I bet 
you he'd be number one on your list oh 
no question about it it be one through 
five one through 
25 John the quintessential elevator 
person yes absolutely no I want that for 
everybody you know and people like you 
giving them a map I think that was very 
interesting I didn't know all that um 
and do you also sort of say to him look 
you're going down the wrong road here 
every day every day every day like hey 
hey hey hey hey you have a pension for 
narcissistic men or women or this person 
is showing clear signs of being 
avoidant right and a lot of these people 
everybody looks great when the sun is 
shining right when right everybody can 
look great a wolf in sheep's clothing 
looks like a sheep right everybody and 
what and this gets back to something we 
talked about in the beginning how do you 
know if this person is good for you or 
not time and repeated exposures right 
absolutely I once read something that I 
have no idea whether it's true or not 
but um that you really don't get to know 
somebody until about um over 17 months 
of in a 
relationship and then of course whenever 
there's a crisis you get to know a whole 
lot more about them and it's so funny 
because I think an awful lot of people I 
think actually I think we having a very 
enlightened 
um uh citizenship these days I think 
that people you know I do this annual 
study with match called singles in 
America I love it yeah we don't poll the 
match members it's a national represent 
pres ative sample so it's real science 
and 
uh only every year we ask you know you 
obviously we ask what you're looking for 
um and whether you are looking for a 
long-term partnership only about 
11% everever say I just want to date 
casually people are looking for real 
relationships men as well as women and 
we started out talk we don't understand 
men but I don't think we understand 
women either but all of my data shows 
that you don't know men fall in love 
faster than women do they fall in love 
more often than women do when they meet 
somebody who they are in love they want 
to introduce them to friends and family 
sooner now from a darwinian perspective 
that would be called mate guarding 
saying look She's 
mine um and men are two and a half times 
more likely to kill themselves when a 
relationship is over there our women's 
magazines seem to think 
that women are the Romantic people 
actually men are somewhat more romantic 
IC than women are I think also for good 
reasons I mean for millions of years 
women had the very dangerous job of of 
not of of carrying a baby for nine 
months and then delivering that 
child and so women I find over and over 
we've got data now uh on over 60 million 
Americans through the singles in America 
study we've been doing it for 12 years 
um women are the picky sex 
100% 
100% 
100% we coach men and we coach women and 
I know one of the first questions I ask 
them you as we get to this elevator 
person concept is describe your dream 
man if it's a woman looking for a man or 
describe your dream woman and it's funny 
I actually I I did a tedx talk about 
this a couple of years ago the secret to 
finding lasting love and I said the 
number one 
thing that over 1500 women have said to 
me like the number one characteristic of 
their dream guy can you guess what it 
is well they say respect um uh and 
somebody I can trust and confide and 
that's what they say on the singles 
America what what do they say to 
you 
[Laughter] 
tall ideally over six feet and so I'm 
thinking you know at first I thought 
these could have been a few red herrings 
and when I started the business in 2009 
and then you know by 
20145 I'm like I think we're sitting out 
a good repository of data here that show 
tall is really significant or taller 
than me ideally you know over 510 over 
six feet and now I you know like quoting 
statistics like if you know that only 12 
to 14% of us men are over six feet tall 
so if you think about percentage 
multipliers and you put a 100 guys in a 
room and I tell this to my clients and 
if you say I'd like him to be over six 
feet you've opened the door and you've 
asked 88 of them to 
leave yes now you're left with 12 now 
you want a particular decade maybe a 
particular ethnicity a 
particular education level and just 
basic barriers and what happen and how 
quickly we can narrow down a population 
of 100,000 to three right exactly and 
they're like that's depressing I said 
but it's not depressing it's just math 
so know that love is going to come to 
you in an unexpected package and look at 
dating as a treasure hunt right when you 
focus on something different looking for 
elevator people different people are 
going to start to become attractive to 
you so isn't fun so but the tall thing 
always cracks me up well my hypothesis 
is I I I would I don't I'm not positive 
but I think it may be built with the 
testosterone system but I'm not sure but 
I do know um mathematically that tall 
men uh tend to raise higher in the 
social ladder um get better jobs and 
make more money and and from a darwinian 
perspective uh if a woman is looking for 
toll she is she wouldn't tell you this 
but she does nor does she know this but 
for millions of years she probably would 
have had a partner who could provide 
more for her children yeah so it was 
it's an Adaptive mechanism on some crazy 
level you know in in in this whole realm 
of crazy um things that people want I 
once on the singles in America um study 
asked uh what are the first things you 
notice in somebody and you know I had 30 
boxes you could check everything 
anything the top three things that 
people me notice the very first things 
is their teeth their grammar and their 
self-confidence so we sat around at 
match and said wow what could that be 
about and it began to occur to me oh wow 
your teeth show your age your and and 
and some of your eating habits um your 
grammar shows your uh socioeconomic 
background and education and your 
self-confidence shows your psychological 
stability so all of these things like 
tall or teeth or something they ring 
true when you understand how we 
evolved we you know I mean we evolved to 
I mean women want a good partner to help 
them raise their babies and they got to 
have somebody the right age they got to 
have somebody the right background for 
them and they pretty good to have 
somebody who's self-confident and we 
naturally truly do this so tall put now 
into darwinian perspective makes more 
sense but then you know you're not going 
to get everything I mean my guy can't 
turn the lights out okay that's fine he 
can't turn the lights 
out he's got other things instead but uh 
you know we're trying to find life's 
greatest 
prize a mating 
partner no wonder somebody will Whittle 
it down from 10,000 to three now it's 
not realistic and that's where you come 
in and give them the map and get them 
figuring out where they're doing some 
crazy 
thinking right and it's a little 
sometimes it feels like a bucket of ice 
at that moment poured on their heads but 
I'm like but get excited because when we 
cast our net out a little wider and 
focus on qualities that are going to 
make this relationship happy and 
last with you know we've had no divorces 
think about how exciting this is going 
to be different people are going to 
start to become attractive to you 
exactly and you know I was I was going 
out I remember I was going out with this 
guy he was really cool guy but he was 
short and overweight and balding and I 
remember walking in Central Park and he 
was walking and I just got just just 
beginning to get to know him and he was 
walking towards me and I said how could 
I like this guy I mean this is 
ridiculous and 3 weeks later I thought 
he was the prettiest animal on the 
planet oh I love that the negative you 
know positive Illusions we're built to 
do that when you love and you can 
Overlook all kinds of things you just 
have to keep overlooking them right that 
becomes hard when we get into that 
negativity bias right and you gotta pull 
yourself back out of that and it's a 
conscious effort and I you know 
um absolutely I I have a wonderful 
friend who you know Amy and her husband 
once wrote on the bathroom mirror 
positive 
Illusions I'm sure my husband's gonna 
listen to this and I always I'm like why 
does nobody in this house turn the 
lights off right I grew up with parents 
they were immigrants they saved every 
scent it's like you walk out of room you 
turn the lights off or somebody's going 
to be berating you at some moment right 
so now that's in me turn the lights off 
turn the lights off and so I I get it 
and now I I literally 
say he's a good man turn the lights off 
yourself for you good for you 
absolutely oh my gosh you were I mean 
there you know I I'm not a techie and my 
husband wants me to put the put what's 
going on on a mutual calendar on the 
computer it's a perfectly reasonable 
thing to ask 
me but all my life I've just written it 
in my little address book which I cart 
with me everywhere and I just don't get 
to 
it and I it's my fault it's my fault so 
any I even bargain with them I even said 
if you turn the lights off I'll put 
things in the calendar didn't work 
didn't work did right I think we should 
make it I think we should make t-shirts 
positive 
Illusions oh that's a wonderful idea 
that's a wonderful idea it's so Charming 
that's very Charming are there any other 
gems you want to leave us 
with I guess I'd like to say just a 
couple things about 
um online 
dating and the two big mistakes that 
people people 
make the first big mistake that they 
make and I know you know this but they 
may not have heard it um is that people 
binge and the problem with binging is 
that the brain is not built to 
um uh absorb more than five to nine 
options and after about nine options you 
choose 
nobody so if I would say the if you're 
going to do online dating and I am very 
much for it for various reasons which I 
can tell you um don't binge that's 
number one and the only other second one 
is um think of reasons to say yes 
instead of 
no he likes dogs you like cats forget it 
you know I mean if it's really obvious 
then you you know but but we do have 
this negativity bias and you've got to 
realize that the brain is tricking you a 
bit so don't binge think of reasons to 
say yes instead of no and you know 
um do a decent 
profile uh 80 68% of people actually 
really do read that 
profile uh you know did you guys hear 
that dear listener they do read your 
profiles it's not just your photos no by 
far get get do your Spell correctly get 
your grammar right get some good 
pictures of you and don't have pictures 
of you kissing a girlfriend in the past 
I mean forget it you know I mean there's 
a lot of things that I could say and I 
don't want to want to to keep you with 
it but uh uh avoid the 
cliches uh I mean these people who start 
with are with well I like you know long 
walks at midnight on the beach well we 
all do there's nothing new there you 
know um don't be 
specific uh you know instead of 
I'm a caring person say well I I get up 
on Saturday morning early and and work 
in a Food Kitchen or whatever you know a 
soup kitchen or something so I mean work 
on that 
profile uh so that uh it really 
represents who you are ask Bella what 
she thinks of your 
profile you know during coid I I used to 
hire writers that would write our 
clients profiles and I always thought if 
I could train people how to write these 
profiles that had never met my clients I 
could probably write a workbook to do 
this so during Co with extra time on my 
hands I actually put together a workbook 
with eight different questions and lots 
of you know examples of good profiles 
and so now what I love is that our 
clients which can range from age 22 to 
believe it or not 82 they've all taken 
this workbook and they all write these 
amazing profiles that can be gone Bo 
right on Match so it's it's awesome so 
yeah you're right if you guys need some 
help get into our one-on-one coaching 
practice because as Helen and I both 
know Peak dating season is coming up 
around the corner in December I can't 
believe it right I know I can't either 
but anyway and so I guess the very last 
thing I mean that I would end up saying 
is that I mean there's a million things 
to talk about and but the bottom line is 
you know love is 
Eternal adaptable and primordial it's 
always going to be with us and any time 
that you can find the right partner 82 
is perfectly fine to find the right 
paper I did it at 75 it's totally 
possible and you're just going to live a 
happier longer healthier life and so be 
hopeful love can come to you absolutely 
you just got to try it does take some 
work you know 
positive Illusions about online dating 
there you go but even getting on to the 
dating sites it does take some work but 
as I say you're trying to win Life's 
greatest prize so it's all worth 
it I love it and being an advisor to 
match and knowing the gizzards of online 
dating I love that you connected with 
someone that you had known in real life 
for many many years and let it grow and 
you traversed the ups and the Downs with 
patience and you know kind of there were 
those wrenching moments and you made it 
through and now it I can sense how happy 
and in love and peaceful you are thank 
you kid I am I definitely am and I wish 
it for everybody else and by the way 
I'll probably write in a memoir sometime 
and I've really learned so much more 
about love in my 70s I've been writing 
about this Bella since I was in my early 
20s I got my PhD studying this you know 
and here I am finally figuring it 
out it's worth it you're in the arena 
I'm in the arena this time and I'm 
sticking with it oh thank you so much 
for honoring us and me with being a 
guest on the podcast I'm so grateful 
this my soul is elevated oh you're a 
sweetheart I'm enriched kid and tell me 
um how does one get that workbook is 
there a way to get the workbook and do 
you sell it we don't yet it's part of 
our one-on-one process for our clients 
yeah they really like it and the first 
time it worked it was a 73y old from the 
south side of Chicago that filled it out 
and I kid you not and I was so nervous 
like is it going to work what's and when 
her she says belly here's my profile for 
the workshop I read it and I broke down 
in tears in our kitchen and my husband's 
like what are you crying about and I 
said it worked it 
worked it worked it work well what about 
the map did you write that in a 
book the map of how they go and you know 
find a 
partner should I do this should I do it 
oh God yes absolutely I think it's a 
magnificent idea 
oh sure I'm 
interested oh well I love that well I 
will have you I mean it won't even put 
you out of business I don't think I mean 
because I don't know you got to think 
about all that but so many people would 
be oh they'd buy it for their daughter 
they'd buy it for their son they'd you 
know even if they're not looking and if 
even if they don't need any advice 
themselves I mean you know you're in the 
greatest profession on Earth I mean 
finding love is essential to 
happiness I love I can't imagine any 
other work I started this company 14 
years ago you know I wish I would have 
been in my 20s like you when I started 
but I can't imagine any more work and 
I'm sure you feel this way that gives 
you more purpose than helping people 
find the lid to their pot and 
understanding how to do that and I'm so 
grateful that you shared so much of your 
wisdom with us today well thank you kid 
thank you thank you thank you 
Bella smart daters Be Inspired love can 
come to you at 25 35 75 or heck 95 
There's No Holds Barred here so um keep 
that psychotic optimism going have 
positive Illusions about your own dating 
life even though it might feel like the 
Sahara desert right now I want you to 
keep the faith that at one point I 
promise you somebody's going to show up 
in your life either as a match in your 
inbox or maybe somebody that you've 
known all your life or maybe somebody 
that's going to set you up on a date 
with and it's going to be your last 
first date I promise so keep the faith 
that that person is out there and 
remember as a psychotic Optimist love 
will come to me it's a when not an if go 
write that in red lipstick on your 
bathroom mirror if you need that 
optimism so we'll see you next week and 
thank you again Dr Fischer thank you I'm 
delighted 
