[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart taters welcome back to Peak dating 
week I hope you've been enjoying the 
episodes that we've been dropping with 
these mini little podcast episodes so 
um for those of you that might be new to 
us I don't know if you're aware of what 
Smart dating Academy does but we have 
process and procedure when we put logic 
and love into the dating process and we 
become your personal trainers for your 
love life we've had zero divorces in 14 
years and we love love we love helping 
people and have the best jobs in the 
world which is helping you to find love 
and to date smarter so today as part of 
this mini podcast series week I want to 
talk to you about how do you take things 
slow so they last 
so 
anything that usually I'm going to speak 
in generalities what starts fast ends 
fast easy calm easy go fast and furious 
flames out there's so many old adages 
around this so how do you take things 
slow and here's really the question that 
I have what does slow mean and if you 
could see me right now I'm putting the 
word slow in air quotes so slow to some 
people means two dates okay I've heard 
stories you wouldn't believe where 
people think you know 
being at each other's houses on day two 
for you know 24 hours is fine in our 
vernacular and our lexicon at SDA slow 
means three months before exclusivity 
okay that means 15 16 I don't know plus 
dates before you decide to become 
exclusive with somebody now the question 
is 
how the heck do you do that so 
the first thing I want you to think 
about doing is the first way to slow 
things down in the dating process is to 
have multiple options okay I did a mini 
episode two weeks ago on how to build a 
dating funnel and why to build a dating 
funnel so what is a dating funnel for 
those of you who haven't listened to it 
it means you've got many options that 
you're dating and how are you getting 
those options there's three major 
pipelines to meeting people right 
meeting people using online dating 
meeting people in real life which means 
on the streets at work at parties at 
meetup groups right IRL as my kids would 
say and then meeting people through 
setups and using your setups from your 
dating board of directors wisely and if 
you haven't heard that check out the 
previous episode to what is a dating 
board of directors and how do you create 
that it's just super connectors in your 
network that you pick because they love 
connecting people and they have a lot of 
connections you put them on your own 
personal dating board and they're 
responsible for setting you up on one 
date a month pretty genius right so 
through these three pipelines meeting 
people in real life having a dating 
board of directors and the apps you 
start to create a funnel with options is 
this easy no is it doable 100 think if 
this is like a fitness plan right where 
you want to do some cardio you want to 
do some weights you've got to do 
different things you've got to eat well 
right so you've got to do kind of three 
different things to start to build your 
Fitness and in the dating world you want 
to press on all three of those levers to 
start to build your dating funnels so 
now you've got lots of options right and 
when you have options you tend to settle 
less now a big problem that we see in 
our practice is people want to do two 
three dates and one person clearly 
stands out and then they want to do what 
shut off their funnel that is a big 
mistake we always say famous laugh words 
at Smart dating Academy don't shut off 
your dating funnel because you're tired 
because one person looks so much better 
than the rest at three dates you could 
have an old a dating pattern your picker 
could be broken so if somebody looks 
good to you at three days and you've had 
a history of picking the wrong people 
over your dating lifetime let the buyer 
beware okay so so you've got lots of 
options and now what you want to do is 
date these people slowly okay you've got 
to keep your funnel going even if 
somebody's looking good at eight dates 
nine dates ten dates keep other people 
coming into your funnel and remember 
you're dating people slowly we're not 
having sex with them so it doesn't feel 
disingenuous right once you get to 15 16 
20 any dates you can have the 
conversation about being exclusive and 
that means you are you have a title 
Partners boyfriend girlfriend girlfriend 
whatever you whatever your flavor is for 
a title but you're not dating other 
people right and that's what exclusivity 
means we're not going to talk about 
polyamory and all of those other things 
we're talking about one-on-one 
monogamous relationships okay now how do 
you get there right from date two or 
date three if you're a fast and furious 
person what you want to think about 
doing is planning all different kinds of 
dates that keep you out of each other's 
houses okay keep yourself out of 
situations maybe you know making out in 
a car leads to you know what in the car 
I'm you know again keep yourself out of 
dangerous spaces and how do you do that 
be creative and plan your dates go on 
walks go to coffee go to new wine places 
go go to carnivals right go play pool go 
go bowling go to an arcade see what this 
person is like under competitive 
situations what are they like when they 
win what are they like when they lose 
right and ideally it's just you and this 
person you're not bringing them out with 
the whole group of your friends because 
your friends while they mean well 
they're not professional daters right 
with my clients at Smart dating Academy 
that are working with us one-on-one we 
have them black box their dating lives 
with us that means when we help them and 
you know we're in the weeds we're 
helping you exactly curate the people in 
your funnel we're having our clients 
only tell us 
what's happening in their dating lives 
and the only time they introduce 
somebody to their friends or family is 
one we have signed off on their 
exclusive Boo and then you're like oh 
surprise guys let me introduce you to my 
new boyfriend and everyone's like what 
or my new girlfriend what so that's how 
we help people to slow things down and 
get into those healthy relationships but 
be creative about the kinds of dates 
that you plan and it's not weird to not 
go to each other's houses right and you 
can have these conversations 
authentically with the person you're 
with about why you want to take things 
slowly why if on date four a nice 
gentleman offers to cook you dinner at 
his house think about it what happens at 
his house right you're like oh my God 
someone's going to take care of me 
you're gonna cook me dinner no one's 
ever done that for me and now think 
about you go to someone's house it's 
their Turf there's a bed there's a sofa 
there's some Frank Sinatra playing 
there's a couple of great bottles of red 
wine and you know how that story often 
ends right and so don't put yourself in 
those situations okay take things slowly 
plan fun dates Pace your 15 dates over 
three months we have lots of dating 
trajectories dating score cards tools 
that we give our clients and obviously 
coaching that helps you to navigate that 
process adroitly so you are not hitting 
your head against a brick wall all of 
the time so 
um if you don't know how to do this okay 
this is a mini podcast episode and you 
want help around this because this all 
sounds logical right it's like if I tell 
you if you want to lose weight you gotta 
eat less move more right everybody knows 
that but so many people hire personal 
trainers to actually keep them 
accountable and help them to make good 
decisions if you need help around this 
this is what we do with Smart dating 
Academy that's our livelihood we do 
one-on-one coaching we hold your hands 
through the process we make it fun and 
we help you get to those 15 dates in a 
fun way and you're not getting 15 dates 
with somebody who's a narcissist or an 
avoidant or a wolf in sheep's clothing 
if they've passed through 15 dates with 
me or Lindsay or Eileen I promise you 
this is a good potential partner so I 
hope this helps you on how to take 
things slow build a dating funnel push 
on all three lovers date multiple people 
at the same time don't pull don't pull 
the plug on other people because you've 
had three or four good dates with 
someone you've got to persevere you 
might be dating five or six people at 
the same time I did an IG live uh by the 
time you're hearing this last week and 
somebody asks is it too many to have 
five or six in your dating funnel I'm 
like no it's not too many at all right 
it's like can you have too many job 
offers you can't can you have too many 
people in your dating funnel no you 
can't because the more options you have 
you know what the more selective you are 
and the less likely you are to do the s 
word subtle so if you need help around 
this join our join Smart dating Academy 
sign up for our free newsletter fill out 
a contact form tell us that you're ready 
to invest in yourself and get a 
one-on-one personal trainer for your 
dating life you will never regret it and 
so until next time I bid you much love 
lots of hugs and a healthy dose of 
psychotic optimism that you can take 
things slow do what I'm telling you 
follow these steps build a funnel and 
start to date in a smarter slower way 
see you soon 
