[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters I 
am so excited to be with you today with 
truly one of my personal Heroes that um 
I've been following for two years that 
didn't even know me personally till 
about 3 months ago I want to introduce 
to you a an absolute luminary in her 
field Megan Ramos who is gosh she's just 
amazing she's a health and wellness Guru 
and a partner of Dr Jason fongs and an 
author of the recent book called 
intermittent fasting for women Megan 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast hi Baya thank you for having me 
on 
today I'm gonna just read you Megan's 
quick bio so you know why I think she's 
amazing so they've improved my health 
Journey exponentially and I wanted to 
bring Megan on here to drop her best 
gems and her new book is amazing so 
Megan is a clinical educator researcher 
and co-founder with Dr Jason Fong of the 
fasting method after losing 86 pounds 
and reversing her own condition she's 
become a world leading expert on 
therapeutic fasting and low carb diets 
and has guided thousands of people 
worldwide including me to weight loss 
and Better Health Megan tell us your 
story that's amazing 86 pounds give us 
you your journey is so fascinating thank 
you I appreciate it I became really 
interested in medicine at a young age 
but preventative medicine my mom just 
she totally struck out when it came to 
the genetic Lottery and has all these 
genetic 
illnesses and I just watch them never 
really diagnosed her and just treat her 
symptoms and eventually they diagnosed 
her and her life radically changed 
overnight but for like the first 12 
years of my life they were just treating 
her symptoms and she was becoming more 
and more ill and I thought that's not 
what medicine should be medicine should 
be about looking at the person as a 
whole and trying to prevent disease not 
just manage symptoms um so I got really 
fortunate um my father one of his good 
friends friends was a nephologist a 
kidney doctor and the kidney doctor's 
kids wanted to be lawyers and I did not 
want to be a lawyer I wanted to go into 
medicine so they swapped they traded 
kids for a summer and I got to work in 
this incredible Kidney Clinic that 
focused on lifestyle interventions to 
help slow down the progression of kidney 
disease and well they did a ton of 
Pharma studies they Ed a lot of the 
profits from those studies to fund 
lifestyle research that otherwise 
couldn't get funding so this to me as a 
teenager was like the coolest thing in 
the entire so cool so cool um but at the 
same time I started accumulating these 
metabolic Health illnesses even though 
I'd like to say from a young age I 
became very conscientious about my own 
health but I was diagnosed with fatty 
liver when I was 12 and polycystic ovary 
syndrome when I was 14 and I was 
classified as under underweight by the 
BMI oh my gosh with all of that you were 
underweight yeah so you know the doctors 
The Specialist that my parents took me 
to they said it doesn't make sense she's 
not an obese person to have diseases of 
obesity she'll probably just grow out of 
it um it's just like a a health phase 
that my body was going through as part 
of puberty I don't know they gave so 
many bogus excuses now look back um but 
no one was all that concerned our my 
primary care did Express concern about 
my PCOS and told my parents you know you 
guys have money freezer eggs when she's 
20 in case she wants to get pregnant 
that way she can always have surcy as an 
option um and so that was terrifying 
toye old so that just made me even want 
to learn about preventative health care 
even more um and then so you get into it 
and all none of the lifestyle 
interventions were helping any of the 
patients um and in my sort of mid 20s I 
thought like what are you going to do 
with your life are you going to stay in 
the medical field and just watch people 
die because nothing seems to work or 
maybe you should go into law where it's 
kind of cold 
and um but I thought you know regardless 
you've got to get your own health 
together I have this horrible family 
history for all kinds of reasons so take 
some time you know work but focus on 
your own health so I you know these 
metabolic illnesses never went away that 
they never got worse they never got 
better and then I decided to take this 
year and follow the Canadian food 
guideline I'm originally from Toronto uh 
I worked with the most expensive 
dietician in the country I got a 
personal trainer um and all this led me 
to becoming as a type two diabetic and 
gaining a ton of weight out of nowhere 
that I seemingly couldn't use so I went 
from being this thin unhealthy person to 
this visually overweight unhealthy 
person um but around the same time as my 
diagnosis my colleague who's a 
nephologist Dr Jason Fong he's not that 
much older than me and he was going 
through his own questioning career 
choices because he became a doctor to 
help people 
and it was really accidental so you know 
he had started to learn a bit about low 
carb diets but he was out at dinner with 
friends and a friend of his was going 
through a separation and she began 
fasting again for Spiritual reasons to 
help sort of reconnect to her religious 
Roots after the separation and discover 
who she is again and in the process lost 
a bunch of weight and reversed 
pre-diabetes and this is a big life bulb 
moment for Jason because coming from 
chirano We're the most diversity in the 
entire world and like a third of our 
patients would fast for religious 
reasons like Ramadan every year um 
people fast from sunrise to sunset for 
30 days and we would have to have all 
their medications adjusted because their 
blood pressure would improve their blood 
sugar levels would improve during 
Ramadan but then in the month after 
Ramadan they break Ramadan with a big 
feasts at Eid and then within a month 
everybody's more diabetic and has worse 
blood pressure so we'd have to see 
patient so often and as he talked me 
into fasting it wasn't it didn't take 
much convincing because it all made 
sense once I looked at it um and six 
months later I reversed all these 
conditions and lost all this weight and 
one of the reasons why I wanted to write 
this book is growing up as a woman um 
everyone my grandmothers my great aunts 
my aunts my mom their friends would all 
say you know you're just kind of doomed 
as you get older and just accept it like 
you know say goodbye to your 24 in Waist 
when you turn 30 you're just going to 
keep gaining weight and you're going to 
keep gaining medications and 
diagnosises and um enjoy it now well you 
can skinny mini and it's just like it's 
heartbreaking that women think that 
their Futures are just this 
Grim yes devastating and I thought you 
know there's genetic components to it my 
grandmother was diagnosed with diabetes 
albeit around her 80th birthday her son 
my father was diagnosed in his 50s but 
it didn't make sense that I got 
diagnosed at 
27 um so you know when my doctors tried 
to write it off as my genetic Des syy I 
said no no no no no like how come 
everybody else you know gets at least 
twice the amount of time if not three 
times the amount of Health span than I 
do it that doesn't make sense to me 
something something there I might have 
the genetic predisposition for it but if 
I do for my grandmother why didn't she 
get diagnosed until her 80th birthday 
why was I being diagnosed on my 27th 
birthday and this was right after you h 
Ed the most expensive nutritionist in 
Canada and a personal trainer that you 
were then 
subsequently diagnosed with type two is 
that right yeah following all of the 
guidelines just expedited the 
development of the 
disease and you know if we we look at 
the definition of insanity it's doing 
the same thing over and over again and 
expecting different results so our diets 
radically shifted in in human history 
real radically shifted in the late 70s 
and so my grandmother who is born in the 
early 30s you know her diet she had many 
years of good health um until her diet 
changed and then that's when thing 
started to decline and she would say to 
me you know Megan we didn't have food in 
the house all of the time you know we 
you know cookies were for special 
occasions we maybe had a dessert on 
Sunday we had potato chips for long 
weekend events but now then they became 
in the house all of the time and she 
said you know growing up your dad went 
with three meals a day and no snacks and 
if he was being difficult I wouldn't 
even give him an 
apple you know he wasn't eating all of 
the time and she said once we started 
eating all of the time and potato chips 
became a pantry staple and cookies 
became something acceptable every day at 
lunch then we all started to gain weight 
and get sick and then I was born in the 
80s the early 80s and that's just how 
everybody ate and my parents thought it 
was really important to feed me non-stop 
I went to school with literally a pale 
full of food um because you know heaven 
forbid I go five minutes uh I may feel 
hungry um so only knew these horrendous 
dietary guidelines and they've just 
evolved to become more and more 
horrendous and it's really interesting 
to see my younger cousins I'm the oldest 
by far um a bunch of my my aunts and 
uncles waited a real long time to add to 
the Family Pool here and they said you 
know why would we drink things like soda 
and juice like it just made you know our 
grandparents really sick and our parents 
really sick and it made you sick sick so 
like why would we do it you know that's 
Insanity just to you know I don't want 
to be diagnosed with diabetes when I'm 
17 like you were at 
27 um so it's it's really interesting 
just to sort of see their perspectives 
and just watching this and say hey we 
don't we don't need to do that stuff 
because we don't want to live this 
cyclical pattern of just getting more 
sick as we age and so many Wom women 
just think that it's their Destiny to 
become sick and obese as they get older 
and look at you you've changed the lives 
of not only you know thousands and 
thousands of people that have come 
through the clinic and follow you online 
but even in your own family right and 
that must feel so good to you that 
you're basically you're changing 
generational Health within your own 
family not withstanding for the rest of 
us so we love you for that 
it's um it's really cool because now I 
get to go to work every day and I get to 
see people get better come off 
medications um actually right before uh 
I joined our call today I was reading an 
email from a client that was published 
um H her they published her story about 
how at 70 years old she's thriving more 
than she did in her 20s and doing all 
this crazy stuff um that she was too 
tired to do in her 20s um or you know 
struggling with infertility in her 20s 
uh and now she's like climbing all these 
crazy mountains all over the world and 
enjoying this great health span from 
changing things and she you know she 
didn't even get started until her 60s 
working on her health but isn't it so 
cool that she's living her 70s in a 
healthier more adventurous way than most 
20-year-olds today are living I love 
that and can you tell us with her story 
kind of what you think the best things 
are that women can do for themselves to 
I want to be a 70y old hiking mountains 
and healthier than ever I'm never 
nowhere near that but wow that sounds 
like an amazing goal to have what can we 
do starting 
today yeah so a lot of people 
um you know think that Fitness is the be 
all and the end all and well Fitness is 
really important a lot of us just don't 
have the physicality there the health to 
actually do it um so the best thing you 
can do is be mindful of when you eat and 
what you eat um so let's go into that 
when and what you eat that was a big 
sentence y'all for those in the back if 
you didn't hear that there's a lot 
packed in that let's unpack that yes so 
when when you eat is um well both are 
areas of of my professional interest and 
Specialty but when you eat actually has 
a profound impact on the aging process 
uh the more frequently you eat 
throughout the day the more free the 
faster you're going to age um the reason 
why is there's these hormonal responses 
um every time we eat and they're they 
signal the aging process to happen and 
they signal the disease developing 
process to happen and this is why we 
have such a huge epidemic of obesity and 
type 2 diabetes infertility um issues is 
because we've thrown all these hormones 
so out of whack um and we really need to 
go back to sort of the what I call the 
Leave it to Beaver days um you know how 
my grandparents grew up how my you know 
father even grew grew up um and just 
eating those three meals a day I always 
encourage people go back find one of 
those shows somewhere on the internet 
watch an old episode of Leave it to 
Beaver every single episode um he's 
never allowed to snack before dinner and 
he's certainly not allowed to snack 
before bed uh recall how we used to eat 
throughout the majority of human history 
here it wasn't all of the time so by 
minimizing the number of times a day 
we're producing this hormonal response 
in terms of food we're actually really 
able to slow down both the the aging 
process and the metabolic disease 
process so just three meals a day you 
know finishing your dinner enjoying 
things like tea or coffee in the evening 
time is perfectly fine be mindful of 
caffeine of course um I love herbal teas 
in the evening time and you can sit 
around and watch movies and watch TV 
shows that's fine but have the tea not 
the popcorn uh in the evening time so 
being mindful of the number of times a 
day we produce hormones in response to 
food and then be mindful of what we eat 
um process and refined foods are highly 
developed engineered to be very 
addictive and they exacerbate the 
hormonal response that we have that 
accelerates age the aging process and 
the disease veloping process so sticking 
to the perimeter at the grocery store 
you know thinking did these 
FS were these Foods around in the 1930s 
if they were then there's a safe bet 
that you can probably eat most of them 
so you know we want to really eat from 
the land and from the sea as much as 
possible so if it's in a box or a bag or 
sometimes a can you know you can get 
things like can sardines which are fine 
or tuna which is good but you know 
canned spaghetti O's is not a a good 
food choice so um really just trying to 
stick to Foods in their closest form to 
where how they're found in nature and 
using those to cook our meals and 
usually by doing the two combination of 
getting rid of the ultra refined and 
processed foods and um minimizing the 
number of times a day we eat you know we 
can really increase the quality of our 
Health span you know Megan I love 
everything you're saying and I subscribe 
to it completely and I know I grew up in 
a household my parents are immigrants 
from India so there was food laying 
around all the time food is love you can 
snack all day long now we all I I think 
I would be safe to say we live in a 
culture that promotes grazing right and 
for some reason in the in the cultural 
lexicon in the US and maybe even Canada 
it's e a bunch of small meals a bunch of 
times a day and that's going to be good 
for you like where did that come from 
and I think you know my second question 
to that is is people will say okay if 
I'm not eating processed foods is it 
okay for me to continue to eat six seven 
times a day if I'm going to eat an apple 
and some nuts and blah blah blah better 
than processed foods but let's dig into 
this a little bit more yeah absolutely 
so pretty much prior to the L 7s we 
really only ate three times a day yeah 
in human history even before that we 
only really ate twice a day um so that's 
even shifted to three times which is 
fine but in the late 70s um there's this 
terrible terrible um researcher who 
radically changed all of our diets his 
name is anel keys and he came out of 
Minnesota and he did all of this 
research where he just cherry-picked 
data because he beli that dietary fat 
was this huge villain and in 1984 the 
year I was born you know butter was 
blasted across the cover of Time 
Magazine as being this dietary evil food 
um now we've gone back through all of 
his research and we see how manipulated 
it was you know it was not you know 
blinded it was not done without huge 
bias but that was research we used to 
totally transform all of our food 
guidelines so what happened is we went 
from a diet that was relatively high and 
naturally occurring fats and minimal and 
processed and refined sugars to saying 
okay no fats are bad we need to you know 
if we're going to experience satiation 
we're going to have to get there through 
sugar um if a food is naturally high in 
fat it's low in sugar and vice versa so 
that's the option that's what you switch 
to um and his data showed that sugar is 
relatively benign so then we all started 
going on these higher sugar um these 
higher carb lowfat diets but then we 
would start to experience swings in our 
blood sugar levels um because we would 
eat something very sugary our blood 
sugar levels would spike we would 
produce hormone insulin in response 
which would dramatically bring it down 
very quickly and then we would fill 
awful from the huge change our bodies 
really like things to be consistent I'm 
sure many listeners are familiar with 
the term homeostasis you know our body 
likes to keep things constant so these 
swings up and down and up and down they 
made people quote unquote hungry uh 
irritable 
tired um so this is where the notion 
then oh well then you just need to eat a 
lot all of the time several times 
throughout the day to stabilize the 
blood sugar levels but then what we do 
is we stabilize them High all of the 
time we're constantly producing insulin 
trying to bring them down but we're 
eating again forcing the body to produce 
more insulin and then we lead to insulin 
resistance which is the root cause of 
metabolic syndrome type 2 diabetes 
obesity so you can see how this kind of 
snowball you know as we transitioned out 
of the late 70s into you know where we 
are today in terms of your your question 
about eating the good stuff the almonds 
the olives and eating all day all day so 
you produce insulin in response to 
snacking even healthy foods so you 
produce a lot less insulin in response 
to eating something like olives and 
almonds than you do you know eating 
Cheetos and ice cream yeah so you know 
it's a lot less but we also can develop 
insulin resistance so this is where our 
body cells become resistant to our own 
insulin and when that happens this is 
when our blood sugar levels stay high 
when our body starts to rapidly um uh 
build up fat stores and generate more 
fat cells and the sort of the root of 
diabetes PCOS fatty liver disease so we 
don't want to develop insulin resistance 
so we de velop insulin resistance by 
producing High volumes of insulin but we 
also develop insulin resistance by 
producing insulin frequently throughout 
the day it sort of becomes annoying to 
our cells and our cells build up 
resistance to our own insulin even 
though it's at smaller volumes when 
produced The Chronic stimulus of it is 
annoying so there's a couple of 
metaphors I like to use you know if 
you're working at your so so I am I am 
pregnant and I have a baby shower in 
Toronto in a couple of weeks yay and we 
asked all aing guests um to not bring 
gifts because we have to fly back to our 
home in California so every every two 
hours UPS or FedEx knocks on my door and 
it's super like I'm so grateful for all 
the gifts but I at come 10: a.m. I have 
to be mindful of my schedule doing 
interviews like this having certain 
meetings so I have to go sign for all of 
this stuff every two hours so it's only 
a box at a time you know like the Toys R 
Us is not coming in oh I don't think 
there's Toys R Us in this country 
anymore but it's not coming in one 
delivery um but it's a little bit 
throughout the day and at the end of the 
day like I don't want to see my local 
GPS and FedEx guys they're really great 
um but I end up seeing them a whole 
bunch throughout the day so you know 
that constant stimulus of having to go 
and collect one or two boxes every two 
hours is disruptive for my day and now 
I'm developing resistance towards my UPS 
and FedEx guys um so even though you 
know you're not having tons of people 
show like tons of insulin show up at 
your cell's front door banging on it at 
once The Chronic annoyance of it 
develops insulin resistance 
I always joke with people that several 
years ago I developed Adele 
resistance um so the singer Adele um the 
Australian singer you have to live under 
a rock to not know who she is she's one 
like a billion Grammy she's got like the 
most successful 
lingy um so her first album when it came 
out she didn't know this but she was my 
best friend she is my therapist I just 
gotten out of like a 10 year long 
relationship very young so her breakup 
album was my my guy Anthem pretty much 
but then she went she had a lovely song 
got married got divorced she she had a 
lot of life and she came back several 
years later with her her comeback um 
album 25 and I was so excited my best 
friend had put out a new album I got to 
hear her beautiful voice again um but 
then she had this damn song called hello 
that became very popular 
I loved it the first 500 times I heard 
it but the rest of Toronto also loved it 
every waiting room every dressing room 
every 
elevator I got in my car one day and 
this is before Spotify and apple carplay 
um where people listen to the radio and 
she was playing the song Hello on eight 
of my 12 set pre or preset stations and 
I just wanted to scream goodbye I had 
developed a Dell resistance so it wasn't 
like I was trapped in a room with the 
song on repeat but just constantly 
hearing it throughout the day for days 
on end even though it was just being 
played once at a time um I developed the 
Dell resistance then several months goes 
by with everybody moved on so and so 
came out with the the the summer Anthem 
people forgot about Adele's song but 
then it would come back on their radio 
near like award season and it's just 
like okay I like that song now a little 
absence made the heart grow fonder so 
when we're snacking it's kind of like 
we're just forcing ourselves to listen 
to the same song over and over again so 
if you're eating from the time you wake 
up to the time you go to bed your cells 
have heard that song 10 times 12 times 
and eventually you know is going to 
create resistance so we need to be 
mindful of the frequency 
um that were producing these hormones as 
well and the level of annoyance that 
frequency might have on our system yeah 
I love that when my friend Trish 
introduced me to yours and Jason's work 
I read the Obesity code and I remember 
reading in there that it made so much 
sense that it's like becoming resistant 
to antibiotics right it's like at a 
certain point if every time you get a 
cold you're taking antibiotics when you 
really need it your cells are going to 
be like hey I know I know what this is 
all about and it's not going to work and 
so insulin resistance is something 
that's really serious and affects so 
many of us whether we know it or we not 
whether we're to your point skinny fat 
or overweight or have a a host of other 
health issues but it's the root of so 
much stuff and it's not really talked 
about which is why I love the work that 
you and and and Jason are doing now 
let's talk a little bit Megan about 
intermittent fasting you talked about 
yes we had a lot of common sense you 
know sort of rules and you can see it in 
your own family with how you became type 
two diabetic at 27 and maybe your mother 
your grandmother was 54 and the prior 
generation was 70 as our food pyramid 
changed we used to eat three males or 
two males a day what can we do now let's 
say 
you know a listener is listening going 
okay you know I've heard of intermittent 
fasting I'm trying to do two meals a day 
but I'm not getting a lot of movement on 
this I don't eat breakfast I eat lunch I 
eat dinner what what help can you give 
us yeah so a lot of times we've 
developed insulin various levels of 
insulin toxicity in our body from just 
following the food guidelines or and 
indulging 
periodically so you know not snacking is 
a great way to prevent disease or 
maintain good health but what do you do 
if you've already got a little bit of 
metabolic Health impairment well we need 
to really 
exate the the absence makes a heart grow 
fonder you know from our own insulin we 
need to take a diation from our own 
insulin so that way when it's produced 
again um we want to our cells want to 
engage with it they want to utilize it 
so in order to stay healthy not having 
um snacks is a great way to not 
overwhelm ourselves but once ourselves 
are already overwhelmed and annoyed we 
know we need to take a break so it's 
kind of you know like any relationship 
you spend a long period of time with a 
particular individual a little bit of 
space can go a long way in maintaining 
the health of that individual after a 
peri period um so we need to have sort 
of these periods of time where we're not 
producing a whole lot of insulin just 
what our body needs to survive but 
nothing in response to food to allow the 
cells to heal so this is where we get 
into more therapeutic strategies and 
periods of time so a lot of people they 
see these things splashed across the 
tabloids or magazines at the checkout at 
the supermarket or their Pharmacy uh or 
and saying 168 or 186 that's essentially 
where you skit one meal a day and then 
you ideally would only eat two meals a 
day but that's still not enough time to 
heal the broken relationship between 
ourselves and our own insulin so then we 
move into more therapeutic stages of 
fasting where for better period of 6 
months your cells and your insulin 
really need to take some time apart in 
order to to heal their their marriage 
their 
relationship um so we get into more 24 
hours or 36 or 42 hours 48's very common 
protocol and so a lot of listeners might 
be gasping right now it's not something 
you do forever it's something you do for 
a period of time usually about six 
months um depending on how well life 
cooperates for the individual or what 
the specific big goals are if you're 
starting on a lot of insulin and a bunch 
of diabetic medications it could take 
longer if you're just looking to get rid 
of that weight that's around your 
midsection that your doctors will tell 
you is going to end up turning into 
diabetes one day it might not take as 
long because you're not diabetic yet um 
but we do what we call Therapeutic 
fasting so it's a therapeutic treatment 
that you're electing to do to reverse 
your health condition wherever you fall 
on the Continuum of metabolic disease um 
so it sounds like a lot um but you can 
have certain things when you fast uh no 
one's going to take away your morning 
coffee first and foremost um you or tea 
if you're in my shoes you can have your 
tea there's plentiful herbal teas that 
you can consume throughout the day even 
hot or cold um you know I always sneak 
around packs of hibiscus tea um when I 
go out to restaurants and I can make 
something in of icy sparkling water with 
lime juice and people think I'm having a 
cocktail meanwhile I'm being sneaky and 
I'm fasting in the evening uh and I'm 
not having a cocktail but they don't 
know and I'm just having tea so there's 
all these great teas you can have um 
bone broth or a stock of low carve 
vegetable broth too um people in our 
community get really into making fun 
cocktails with like pickle juice it's 
kind of funny um but appreciated in the 
heat so there's these different fluids 
that you can have when you're fasting 
and some of them are very satiating um 
adding a little bit of vinegar to water 
can really suppress your appetite mint 
very appetite suppressing so they help 
you get through the period of time when 
you're fasting but what happens when you 
fast is you start to burn plentiful body 
fats and so your body does have tons of 
fuel to store off of we're a very 
overnourished nation in that sense we 
have quite a lot of excess body fat here 
in North America so we're able to fuel 
off of that so we don't actually feel 
hungry most people think that if they do 
something like a two-day fast like 48 
hours they'll binge eat that's not the 
case because your body has fueled so 
much off of your own food most people 
are surprised at how little they can eat 
mentally they might be able to 
romanticize the world world's biggest 
Feast but physically they just can't 
consume that much um and it's not super 
restrictive on one's lifestyle so 
probably the most popular therapeutic 
fast that we see our community engaging 
with for this you know six month plus or 
minus period is doing 248 hour fasts a 
week and so many of you are probably 
thinking but I cook you know for a 
significant other cook for a child um 
how is this possible but when you're 
doing 248 hour fasts a week you might 
fast from Sunday night to Tuesday night 
you could eat Wednesday fast from 
Wednesday night to Friday night but 
you're really only missing Monday and 
Thursday dinner so it makes it really 
easy to do some prep in advance so we're 
we're actually recording at the start of 
the week and my husband notified me 
yesterday that he's going to be doing a 
couple 48s after an indulgent vacation 
that he had um and he's I'm I'm pregnant 
so I'm actively trying to gain half a 
pound a week he would actively like to 
lose half a pound a week um so last 
night I'm not the best at making dinner 
these days uh even still this far under 
pregnancy I'm pretty nauseous so he's 
been the cook at dinner time um so last 
night at dinner he just made extra so 
tonight when I go to have dinner I just 
need to throw some food in the oven to 
reheat it a bit he doesn't have to worry 
about me I don't have to worry about 
fending for myself in my nauseous State 
um baby can get his protein in and I can 
actually end up eating before he gets 
home so he's not as tempted by the 
smells of the food um so it was just as 
simple as that um and it makes it really 
easy to do meal prep and to organize 
family um throughout the week so that's 
why it's become our most popular 
strategy and then it's really great for 
fat burning as well you know I'll tell 
you what you know it's funny you guys 
say the first rule of the fasting Club 
is never discussed fasting right and so 
it's it's really funny I see that in the 
Facebook group a lot so I don't talk a 
lot about it but I want to share with 
you guys that you know I was on a girls 
trip and my girlfriend said hey I've 
been following the work of Megan and 
Jason you should try this and she said 
you can like she said my first fast was 
36 hours and I literally fell down at 
the campfire going there is no way I 
don't even know if I go 3.6 hours 
without eating a snack and because I'm 
hardcore and I know you guys know me 
you're probably like okay so I decided 
to do it one night on a Sunday I closed 
my eating window Monday at various 
points I thought I would die mentally 
when I got to 24 hours decided to do a 
pelaton ride as well my girlfriend Trish 
is like you're G to be fine keep going 
keep going and I fell asleep that night 
I woke up I'm like oh my gosh I did 36 
hours and I don't feel terrible at all 
to Megan's point I thought my gosh am I 
going to eat an entire massive breakfast 
you know what the irony was I wasn't 
really very hungry but I was so new to 
this that I thought I better eat 
something and I was taking my mom in for 
knee replacement surgery I got her all 
set up I didn't dare tell her my Indian 
mom would have lost her mind she would 
have had to have heart replacement 
instead of her knee replacement if she 
knew that I had done this and I had a 
couple of eggs and I thought oh my gosh 
I feel fine and that led to this huge 
cycle eological barrier to your point 
we've got so much fuel inside of us that 
we can burn it for days or for weeks in 
my case and be totally fine and I've 
been following this protocol for a 
couple of years and really have never 
felt better my clothes fit great I'd 
still like to lose a little bit more and 
I know I'm going to seek your help in 
continuing to work on this but I think 
that you know talk to us a little bit 
about the difference between fasting 
what people consider starving and why 
this will not shoot your metabolism 
because this was one of the very first 
things I thought about so as you 
listener are going oh my God you 
probably have zero metabolism left tell 
us why that's not the case and the 
science we're really fortunate to you 
there's a ton of great randomized 
control trials the gold standard in 
medical research albeit they do have 
their flaws um that goes to show that 
alternate daily fasting is shows no 
clinically significant change in 
metabolic rate and they're always 
comparing fasting to Cal calorie 
restriction these diets that we've 
followed for years that don't work um 
and how each one of these calorie 
restriction diets shows a clinically 
significant reduction in metabolic rate 
so calorie 
restriction in general most of us have 
done it I've done it you might have a 
soup diet a shake diet a this meal plan 
that meal plan count points count 
calories every single one and didn't you 
say that the average person has tried 
126 different diets the 
average woman by the age of 50 um it's 
it's wild it's all the same stuff 
because it's all based on less move more 
eat less um so it's kind of I always 
joke is like going to the toilet paper 
section at Costco you've got the Costco 
brand you've got the kitten brand you 
got the bear brand it's all toilet paper 
at the end of the day sometimes it's two 
ply or three ply but it's still toilet 
paper um so all these diets are the same 
they're just packaged differently we do 
them all expecting different results but 
we never get that result so with calorie 
restriction we do experience some 
symptoms of starvation um so this is how 
it VAR it differs so the last few years 
have been nuts right um with coid and 
lockdowns and changes and a lot of 
people underwent some Financial shifts 
at home uh as a result so you know like 
imagine your household budget was 
reduced by about 
30% um at first you might overspend 
right because 30% is you know it's not a 
little bit it's a significant amount but 
what happens over the course of a few 
months if you don't want to end up in 
tremendous debt is you learn how to 
adapt to a new budget so you start 
cutting costs right maybe you sell a car 
and take public transit maybe you don't 
go to the movies and you get a Netflix 
subscription um maybe you've look at 
what's on sale at the grocery store 
before just buying whatever you feel 
like you want to buy but eventually most 
of us would figure out how to not go 
into debt how to stop going into debt 
and acclimate to our new budget but we 
have to cut costs so when we do calorie 
restriction diets we reduce our caloric 
intake by something like 30% typically 
20 to 30% is what different dietary 
programs promote in order for fat loss 
so if you think of calories like 
metabolic currency dollars um you know 
our body is still spends at first like 
they're getting a 100% of what they 
usually get but they're not so over the 
time you know the body then goes into a 
bit of a survival State because it says 
okay you know we can't constantly 
overspend so this person's losing weight 
and eventually we they're going to 
completely you know waste away so we've 
got to figure out how to cut cost and we 
can live off of 20 30% less calories so 
what do we do is we cut funding for 
reproduction for cardiovascular 
respiratory cognitive wow all these 
different systems and our body literally 
slows down and we feel awful and then we 
are physically starving all of the time 
because our body wants to boost their 
metabolic rate back up so you know we 
feel like we could eat cardboard some 
days and it just becomes too miserable 
for most people they start to feel awful 
and then they haven't lost weight in 
like three four plus months doing the 
same thing but then we go back to these 
diets because well they work for the 
first couple of months um you know one 
particular diet company they've got a 
95% failure rate but they're one of the 
biggest businesses on the entire planet 
talk about a business model right they 
get you hooked and you think you it's 
going to work and then it doesn't work 
but then have to reinvest in doing it 
because you did have those few months of 
success oh my God you're talking about 
me 
so so I I've been there too when you're 
fasting you're not giving your body 
anything 30 calories from a cup of 
coffee is nothing um some water down 
calories from bone broth is nothing so 
you're reducing your caloric intake by 
over 90 95% sometimes even as close to 
100 so your body can't figure out how to 
budget off of nothing so it actually has 
this nervous system response which is is 
cool it activates the production of 
these counterregulatory hormones and 
this is really where fasting differs 
these counter regulatory hormones they 
help us maintain our lean mass which all 
of the data goes to show fasting and 
fasters retain more lean mass in calorie 
restriction groups um so we retain our 
lean mass it helps us burn body fat and 
this neur adrenaline that's produced to 
help us burn body fat and human growth 
hormone they top us up to what we need 
it says okay me Megan wants to spend 
2500 calories to day well Megan's 
definitely got 2500 calories in those 
fat stores because she ate that extra 
Pizza you know that you know really bad 
organic chemistry exam and we're GNA 
fuel off of that we've got all the 
stored energy in our fat cells so it's 
not like my my bank is full my Banks my 
calorie Bank you know when I had to lose 
weight I had millions of dollars in 
there so I had tons to spend so I was 
able to maintain my metabolic rate so 
you know we live in this Society where 
we have quite a bit of excess fuel you 
know I fast even professional athletes 
at lower body fat percentage we do 
compensate for extra calories from fat 
and protein on their eating day just to 
help offset some potential losses but 
most of us in North America that our 
body fat all it is is stored fuel to be 
utilized so it's really difficult for us 
to even get into a state of starvation 
in the first place we're not this 
malnourished Society our Foods 
definitely aren't the most nutrient 
dense and we have some nutrient 
deficiencies that are very common in 
North America things like vitamin D for 
example uh in a lot of places is a huge 
problem um but overall you know we're 
pretty over ner 
so we can't even get into a state of 
starvation as it is and you know when 
you're starving you're being forced to 
forgo food when you're fasting you're 
electively choosing and if you don't 
feel well you can break your fasts I 
can't tell you the number of long fasts 
I sought out to do that ended at 18 
hours or the number of fasts I was only 
going to do for 18 hours but I wasn't 
hungry and went for a couple of days um 
so each cost is going to be different 
but you're in control of it you're in 
the driver's seat uh and you get to pick 
and choose when you start and stop it as 
well I love that and you're such a 
vessel of knowledge and you guys at the 
end of the 
day this is nobody's trying to sell you 
anything with fasting it's easy it's 
Costless and you just make the decision 
to do it and suddenly you start to reap 
these un unbelievable healthy benefits 
and everything that Megan is saying is 
so grounded in logic and Science and her 
own personal experience and is there 
anything else that you want to tell our 
listeners that you know could help them 
obviously besides starting to listen to 
your work Megan has a great podcast this 
book I'm going to put um a link in the 
show notes but any other things that you 
can kind of help us to think about 
things and do things in a better way to 
you know maybe it's lower our stress 
improve our health weight loss like all 
of the things you've already told us so 
much well stress is a big one stress 
undoes everything you do positively with 
your diet or lifestyle so you've got to 
get control on stress I've seen stress 
signal single-handedly destroy the most 
healthy people um even some very 
successful pro athletes too so you've 
got to get that under control it's 
really hard in this day and age and the 
world seems to get weirder inste of more 
normal by the day but you've got to 
prioritize your health busyness just 
will send you to the Grave early um so 
you've got to slow down a bit and focus 
on you um I think also for women too 
you're not doomed postmental pausal 
women can lose weight just as fast as 
effectively as men women going through 
the hormonal changes um you don't have 
to suffer there's a whole lot of great 
things ahead and these years don't have 
to be miserable I'm so looking forward 
to getting older um because I know that 
I can have a a much more beautiful 
healthy experience than I did in my 
teens and 20s um I'm younger woman to 
there's this huge fear of fasting and 
infertility um and they told me at 14 
like that was it and I'm going to be 39 
very soon uh and expecting my first baby 
we did do IVF to bank embryos um a lot 
of people think I struggled with 
infertility that's not the case you know 
we got our embryos I got pregnant my 
first embryo transfer um and we just 
wanted to bank them because of my age um 
and 
you don't make eggs forever regardless 
of how healthy you are so we wanted some 
insurance there but this is something 
they told me at 14 wouldn't be possible 
without surrogacy down the road and well 
here I am hobbling around uh 
California with my my ever growing belly 
so if anything fasting has given me the 
opportunity to be a mom and it's help my 
fertility so don't believe all those 
naysayers that this isn't safe for women 
it's absolutely safe I worked with women 
of all age groups every single day and 
I've only seen it give them back their 
health and their quality of 
life it's definitely given me back mine 
um I can tell you that and just to show 
you let me think I'm going to calculate 
I think right now I'm on a 39-hour fast 
I was fasting in honor of you being on 
our podcast today Meg so I feel great 
clearheaded happy in control and it's 
not just physical you guys do whatever 
it is you can that works for you but 
there's so much mental peace that comes 
with it and there's so much 
psychological strength that comes from 
knowing that you have control right and 
you'll see if you follow this journey 
and I'm happy to you know share more 
about this with you about how I actually 
feel hungrier on days I eat than on the 
days that I fast so there's so much good 
stuff that Megan shares with you in the 
variety of things that she does but 
definitely I would encourage you if this 
conversation has peaked you I'll tell 
you what I've lost 21 pounds over the 
last two years and I'm a small person 
and attribute it to the work that you 
are doing grab her book The Essential 
guide to intermittent fasting for women 
you will not be worse off for it in fact 
you'll only be better and you'll you'll 
be able to do what makes best sense for 
you it might be different than what 
Megan does it might be different than 
what works for me but at the end of the 
day you will 100% have some benefits to 
you I'm so glad I'm so glad you were 
here Megan you're one of my personal 
Heroes that I will always be grateful 
for and have been a real inflection 
point in my life for the positive so 
thank you so so much and I hope that 
someday you will definitely post baby 
come back to the podcast and share your 
newest research and learnings with our 
community thank you absolutely I really 
appreciate it any chance to talk about 
fasting I'm open yay me too I love it so 
thank you again and smart daters if this 
has resonated with you like I'm saying 
join Megan's Community listen to her 
podcast order the book and if this has 
inspired you to say well wow I want to 
get healthy and find the lid to my pot 
follow us on Instagram at Smart dating 
Academy listen to previous episodes of 
this podcast or even better schedule a 
consult with myself or somebody from my 
team and we can really help you get 
started to find the lid to your pot and 
there's nothing like summer love with 
that I'll see you next 
week 
