[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
welcome back smart daters I'm so excited 
to talk to you today about a subject 
that is near and dear to my heart near 
and dear I know to your heart or 
somebody that you know and they'll be 
very close to your heart and what we're 
going to talk about is healing after 
betrayal 
and finding love again and I have one of 
my favorite people literally on planet 
Earth who I've gotten to know over the 
past three years and I'm tickled pink 
that she is here with me to chat with 
you guys this is like an after dark 
episode we're going to talk about the 
real deal of my friend and badass 
Kick-Ass woman serial entrepreneur 
Rachel Graham Rachel is not Rachel is 
the founder of The Healing Springs Ranch 
and the founder of evolve and transform 
she is a speaker she is a mom she is a 
friend she was a Smart dating Academy 
client that has now become an incredibly 
dear friend Rachel welcome 
thank you Bella wow what an intro 
um I appreciate you sharing a little bit 
of my story but wow that was that was 
very flattering I appreciate it and I'm 
grateful to be here 
um as you know you've been a tremendous 
and had a tremendous impact in my world 
and I'm glad I get to share it with your 
viewers 
um and listeners on kind of the journey 
you and I have had 
um I did want to say one thing too I'm a 
co-founder in Healing Springs Ranch I 
have tremendous business partners that 
help deliver the quality care we can 
talk about that later because as you 
know that was 
um my story was the Genesis for how I 
got into that industry so thank you 
Bella for having me oh you're so welcome 
and you know Rachel is here with us 
because her story to some extent is your 
story is my story which one of us hasn't 
been betrayed in some way shape or form 
and we've been forced to to get down on 
our knees it can reduce us to nothing 
and we've all had to figure out our way 
or maybe for you you're still down there 
on the ground figuring out how can I 
heal can I heal so Rachel I'm gonna I'm 
I would love for you to tell us your 
story of betrayal and healing 
um 
and and 
the strength that you've had to get to 
where you are now so I'm handing you the 
mic to just talk to us for real 
thank you Bella and yeah you're right 
betrayal is something we're all going to 
experience in some fashion or form 
um unfortunately and it's one of the 
deepest 
um probably most assaulting things that 
can happen to us as a human being when 
we put Faith and confidence in someone 
and Trust in an individual and they in 
turn violate that particular trust and 
so for in my case you know I went 
through a situation as you know and I'm 
not going to go into all the graphic 
details but you know in my marriage 
ended because of betrayal or at least 
that's why I thought it ended because of 
Financial and physical betrayal 
um and I really at the time felt like it 
was all his fault 
um what happened was his fault he did 
this to me okay woe is me this horrible 
thing happened and yes it was a horrible 
thing 
however I found myself in this victim 
mentality and that victim mentality I 
kept cycling through that and we'll talk 
a little bit about the drama triangle 
and the victims one of the roles on the 
drama triangle and I found that so long 
as I stayed in that victim mentality or 
my friends even supported me staying in 
that victim mentality by saying yeah you 
know he's a this or that or whatever or 
family members 
um I wasn't able to push through it and 
move forward and so I did a lot of 
personal healing to get through this 
particular situation and get to the 
other side to where I actually am 
healthier for having gone through this I 
have more self-awareness I have more 
ability to see my role and and that's 
something that was a unique thought 
process to me when someone said to me 
well what was your role in all of this 
and I said what do you mean my role I'm 
the victim I don't I'm the victim I'm 
the victim I don't have a role this 
happened to me exactly exactly he went 
outside the marriage and so I'm trying 
to place blame on another individual and 
the reality of it is is that marriages 
don't end because of infidelity or 
relationships don't end because of 
infidelity it is a symptom of a much 
larger problem and there's culpability 
on both people's Parts while you may not 
have been the one that acted out there's 
something that you need to address in 
you so that you don't repeat this 
pattern and I know that's something you 
talk geniusly about is when you 
especially when you're referring to like 
a narcissist and making the same 
mistakes and so what I learned in this 
is we oftentimes will continue to make 
these mistakes until we heal and grow 
from them and learn the patterns that 
are causing us to find ourselves in 
these situations and so for me when I 
put the mirror in front of me which was 
absolutely the most painful thing I've 
ever had to do and look at it do I yeah 
do I like what I see in the mirror and 
then I had to come to terms and 
acknowledge that I in my marriage was 
emotionally unavailable 
you wouldn't know that wow yeah you and 
I are good friends and I bear my soul to 
you I I feel comfortable being 
vulnerable with you because I trust you 
I had to learn how to do that I couldn't 
do that even with my closest friends but 
yet I didn't see that as an issue 
because when you're coming when you're 
growing up you identify with your family 
of origin the way you grew up the people 
you grew up the friends that you had all 
those kinds of things and we take on 
those traits and in my environment I 
wasn't in I what I've never felt 
um capable of being very vulnerable and 
open with feelings thoughts and ideas 
and so I took that through my 
relationships and I actually sought out 
people in retrospect looking at it that 
were the same way that we're incapable 
of doing that because it's like two 
emotionally stunted people come together 
thinking they're gonna make it whole if 
that makes sense 
and so I had to learn that what that was 
I didn't even know what that was and I 
figured that out through therapy and 
through um giving myself time and space 
um after my marriage ended which is 
something I highly suggest to everybody 
Out There Our natural instinct is oh I 
want to feel validated that someone 
finds me attractive or someone wants to 
go out with me and I'm going to run out 
and find someone I'll show that person 
how attractive I am to the opposite sex 
you know all this stuff and the reality 
is we missed a golden opportunity to 
stand back and really reflect and heal 
such that we can present as a better 
partner and choose and you talk about 
your picker when your Pickers off have a 
better picker going into a new 
relationship because like attracts like 
so if you're emotionally unhealthy 
you're gonna attract emotionally 
unhealthy if you're emotionally healthy 
you're gonna find someone that's 
emotionally healthy the two don't go 
together when someone is unhealthy is 
not going to end up with a healthy 
person period it doesn't work won't make 
sense you're so right you're so right 
and when you did this work you know you 
switched from victim mentality and one 
day you held the mirror up how did your 
emotional availability show up I love 
that you were able because it's really 
hard for all of us to say you know you 
hurt me okay but what was my role in 
that right what was my role in that and 
what what did you discover about your 
role in your marriage 
with her so when the kind of the 
opposite or the antithesis to 
um being a victim is to be a Creator so 
when you ask yourself what role did I 
play in this and then I'm going to look 
at that and go more in depth and address 
and explore and understand that that's 
when you're getting off the drama 
triangle which is Cartman's drama 
triangle and I'll come back and share a 
little bit more about it yeah but you're 
shifting from that victim unhealthy 
victim role where you're powerless 
things happen to you you have no control 
um you you you have no ownership in 
finding a better solution to things but 
when you shift to a healthier version 
you become a Creator and a Creator says 
okay happens excuse my French but 
it does okay well how do I respond to 
that how do what opportunity does it 
create for me is there a learning 
opportunity is there in my case a 
business model opportunity yeah what is 
it out there that sits there in that 
creator role and the Creator feels 
empowered by this this ugly thing that's 
happened they feel in control or ability 
to take control and it's a mindset shift 
that happens right here and most people 
don't even realize they have the power 
to do that and for me that shift 
happened in the course of about two 
minutes and when I look back at that 
moment that pivotal two minutes and it 
was a very spiritual moment I I've 
shared it with you and I'll share it 
with your viewers where I was going 
through I was in the depths of hell I 
was going through kind of uncovering 
um betrayal after betrayal after 
betrayal and as I uncovered more and 
more I felt smaller and smaller and 
smaller and I just felt Beat Down Beat 
Down beat down and I came home to my 
home at the time and there was a water 
coming out the front door from a pipe 
that had backed up oh God and um I had 
it was a horrible week I had been 
dealing with my marital situation 
talking to divorce attorneys had to 
euthanize my dog which happened to be a 
wedding gift to my former husband at the 
time 
um and I kind of had this weird sense of 
I mean having to euthanize my dog and 
I'm going to euthanize my marriage too 
you know it was kind of a surreal 
experience and then having this this 
flooding happen all while trying to work 
and manage two young kids and I I felt 
the weight of the world at that moment 
it was like one more thing and so here I 
am in a victim mentality saying God why 
are you doing this to me so I walk into 
my house I ask the babysitter to take 
the kids and go away for a few hours 
because I knew it was about to combust 
and I had this moment um a very I'll 
call it a spiritual moment where I had 
to release I had been going through 
everything in kind of an emotionally 
frigid way trying to navigate and take 
care of responsibilities keep up um you 
know things for my kids for the sake of 
my kids be strong don't cry don't do all 
these things and I finally hit my 
breaking point and when I did I fell 
into the water on my floor 
screaming at God and screaming about why 
are you doing this to me see the the 
there's the victim language why are you 
doing this to me how much more are you 
going to give me I can't take anymore 
what did I do to deserve this all of 
that very victimy language and I felt 
what felt like a hand on the back of my 
neck pick me up pull me to my feet and 
tell me you're going to be all right I'm 
trying to show you something 
and I replied out loud saying you've got 
my effing attention 
and it was at that point that I allowed 
myself to shift to a Creator role saying 
okay there's some reason I'm going 
through all of this there's something 
I'm supposed to learn there's something 
the universe is trying to tell me and 
maybe I just need to go with it and stop 
trying to control it and so I 
surrendered to that and it led me down a 
path in understanding addiction mental 
health 
um going through that process and seeing 
some opportunity to change that industry 
along with some of my business partners 
um and that's how I got into Healing 
Springs because I was appalled at the 
type of treatment that was out there for 
my loved one 
um and really wanted to to change the 
The Narrative that was being played out 
there and so I took everything I had 
learned 
um and started down that path and got 
involved and so my very darkest moment 
became the most enlightened moment I 
think I've ever had in my life wow wow 
wow wow you know I listened to and I'm a 
fan of Tony Robbins and one of the 
things that he always says is can you 
find the meaning in the mess 
and you were the definition of finding 
the meaning at that moment you are 
literally on your knees in the water and 
you feel this hand pulling you up by the 
collar saying you like I'm going to show 
you the way out and you let that create 
itself and you let yourself Find the 
meaning which resulted in you 
and I'm I'm guessing in some senses this 
was a blessing to you as well to have 
this new idea and this light bulb it's 
not going to replace a a marriage that 
had died but suddenly you have this new 
purpose to put that energy and all of 
the work that you had done on yourself 
and your business Acumen into as you 
know something that you know is now 
helping so many people turn their lives 
around amazing 
no thank you I think you know I learned 
something and in that process in that it 
was okay to be vulnerable with myself 
it's okay to be real with myself it's 
okay to say out loud I'm disappointed in 
you Rachel you could have done this 
differently and it was okay to be sad it 
was okay to be mad and it was okay 
sometimes you shift around all these 
different emotions 
um and and sometimes you don't even know 
why but I did learn something very 
important from um through my the therapy 
I did to kind of work through this and 
it was that you can't go around this 
pain this grief 
um you you can't people want the fast 
ticket you know the fast pass to go 
through something you know I want to go 
around it over it under it because it's 
too painful to go through it but that's 
not an option you have to go through it 
but while you're going through it it 
doesn't have to be this dark cave and 
and um scary experience there will be 
moments that it's scary but there's also 
these Beautiful Moments and the best 
compliment received the best compliment 
when I was in one of the darkest places 
of my life from someone it was a coach 
from a leadership program I was in at 
the time and he said to me you're a 
lotus flower blooming in the muck 
you think about that the Lotus can't 
Bloom if it doesn't have muck around it 
so that's something I remembered on my 
dark day you're a lotus flower girl 
you're a lotus flower you're going to 
bloom and you've got to have this muck 
to help you do that and so I go back to 
that compliment I'll never forget that 
moment I go back to that so I learned 
that you have to go through this and you 
have to allow yourself the time and the 
space and you can't really go through it 
effectively if you're too busy jumping 
back into the dating world and needing 
to feel validated by others because at 
the end of the day if you don't love 
yourself no one else is going to love 
you the way that you're gonna crave that 
and it's not their job to love you it's 
yours to make yourself happy to love 
yourself and then invite someone into 
your world to share in that but you want 
someone too that loves themselves too 
um and is in a healthy place so that's a 
something I learned during those dark 
moments 
and you guys this is I think something 
that's important and we talk about a lot 
is that loving yourself doesn't mean you 
don't have broken parts to you it 
doesn't mean that your healing is 
complete it just means that you have 
accepted yourself for the things that 
you have been through the landmines you 
have been over and you're okay with who 
you are and the the scars and the warts 
and all of you that comes with you it 
doesn't sometimes when we hear you've 
got to love yourself and Rachel I know 
you agree with this it doesn't mean 
everything is healed up and put away 
nicely and it'll never come back right 
at a certain point there are parts of us 
that don't heal and we learn how to cope 
with those parts 
mm-hmm 
I heard something the other day was 
another profound thought and it was 
really around leadership but you could 
change the lead part to live live your 
life through your scars not with open 
wounds through the open wounds you know 
um you need to it's your job to heal 
your wounds and then we all walk around 
with scars I mean we're all perfectly 
imperfect we all have life experiences 
we've all had life challenges 
um you know I can't compare my traumas 
to someone else's that's not fair 
because it's theirs to own it's mind to 
own and we have our own experiences in 
it but I can extend Grace and compassion 
to someone in understanding when 
someone's been through a difficult time 
so you know live you know with the scars 
not with the wounds sitting there 
because if you live with the wounds 
you're constantly opened and they 
constantly weep and bleed and you're 
you're gonna do that on another 
relationship and then wonder why that's 
not the right relationship you're gonna 
do it you know in work or whatever it is 
with a friendship whatever it is and 
you're going to wonder why this keeps 
happening it's because you have not 
healed those wounds and until you do 
you're almost not whole you're whole 
with the star 
but you're not whole when you have these 
open infected wounds no it's so true and 
you said something earlier that I want 
to come back to you and maybe you can 
share some of your best thoughts around 
this you had that moment where you said 
you realized my role in this was being 
emotionally unavailable and sometimes we 
call that in dating parlance emotionally 
avoided right it just means I kind of am 
an independent person I can deal with 
stuff on my own I don't do a lot of 
feelings I don't do a lot of intimacy 
and and you march forward and you can be 
very successful in your life but when 
you realize that you can be emotionally 
avoidant and you know the the statistics 
say one in four of us have what we call 
an avoidant attachment system what are 
some things that you can tell you know 
someone if you're avoidant here are some 
ways to help yourself do you have 
anything that you can share with us that 
helped you 
yes practicing vulnerability you know 
being able to identify trustworthy 
people that's that's the big piece when 
you're avoidant it's because you don't 
trust right you have you have built up 
walls and barriers and it's usually 
because of a coping skill you've had as 
a child or maybe you didn't feel safe in 
an environment so you learned to throw 
that wall up and no one gets in that 
wall and when I was in high school I had 
a boyfriend tell me he goes you're like 
Rapunzel you're up in the tower and you 
let your hair down just enough that I 
can almost grab it then you yank it up 
and I thought that was the weirdest 
thing he said to me in high school and I 
didn't get it at the time and now it 
makes he was describing that that's 
exactly what he's describing in his 18 
year old way you know 
um he was describing that and I carried 
that with me and so for me to get real 
with myself and then to be able to tell 
you who I am let you see who I am really 
really let you experience things with me 
that I would not normally tell someone 
once I learned how to do that and I 
learned it's not so scary yeah people 
are going to disappoint you that's just 
life you know but and I can be 
vulnerable someone and I can be 
vulnerable with a stranger now and I 
wasn't able to do that before for fear 
of judgment or more hurts whatever it 
may be and and so I now spend my life 
being vulnerable on stages and 
communicating on podcasts and shows and 
and teaching at my facility because I've 
learned that being vulnerable is 
actually quite healing 
brene Brown's a good subject matter 
expert on that but it is quite healing 
to be vulnerable and when you are who 
you authentically are and you let the 
world see that 
and people still like you for it that's 
validating you know and that the thing 
that I learned in the process is most 
relationships have a shelf life of some 
sort some are a lifetime some are an 
hour some are a five minute you know 
passing and Target you know whatever it 
may be 
um but relationships have a shelf life 
and as human beings we try to extend the 
shelf life on relationships that we need 
to sunset in our world and the most 
loving thing that you can do is to 
Sunset a relationship when it's hit that 
shelf life and in doing so you're you're 
actually allowing that person to go on 
and find what they're looking for 
um you know I I've encountered 
situations where someone's a great 
person they're just not my person you 
know in the dating world they're 
wonderful people they're just not my 
person and why would I want to try to 
force that to happen or work or go down 
that path because someone's showing an 
interest in me when that's really unfair 
to them and and so that's a big piece 
that I would say is important the second 
thing I would say to people too is when 
you get out and start dating again 
um you want to do that obviously after 
you've healed but you're going to face 
some rejection but rejection is 
something we should be grateful for 
because rejection is protection and it's 
redirection so say that again for the 
people in the back okay the people in 
the back it's rejection is protection 
and it's redirection so it's an 
opportunity for you to step back and say 
this path I'm going down or this person 
I'm in a relationship with is not my 
person and that's okay and then it's 
time for me to welcome that rejection 
instead of saying there's something 
wrong with me 
just acknowledging that this wasn't a 
right fit 
um and that could be a job maybe you 
didn't get a job that you wanted 
whatever it may be you know we're 
talking about dating and relationships 
so I'll put it in that context but it 
frees you up to go find the very thing 
you are looking for and I have yet to 
hear someone say I was rejected by 
someone that and then they did the work 
that's an important part and then they 
found someone new and they sit there and 
they go what was I thinking you know 
back then when I was you know crying 
over that and that was the only person 
for me and whatnot once they've done the 
healing and that journey and they end up 
in a healthier relationship they look 
back and say you know what that needed 
to end I just didn't know it at the time 
wow no it's so true we all need to we 
all need to do our work and as Rachel 
you know alluded to we talk a lot about 
fixing your picker and so much of the 
time when we haven't done that work or 
even sometimes when we have done that 
work right we still human beings are 
creatures of habits we tend to want to 
do what feels comfortable versus what's 
intellectually right for us right and 
that's where we really help people to 
put the guardrails around you to make 
sure sure that you're picking people 
that are actually good for you for women 
we call them high GHQ guys high in good 
husband qualities people that are going 
to provide you with that safe secure 
connection that you're looking for so 
Rachel what made you know or what made 
you you know kind of put your first toe 
back into the dating pool and and where 
are you now tell us your process you 
were a single woman who dealt with 
betrayal physical Financial you turned 
that into the mess into your meaning you 
started and co-founded Healing Springs 
Ranch which helps people that are 
struggling with addiction to turn their 
lives around it's an amazing place in 
Texas and if you're curious about it 
make sure you check it out now once you 
did all of that tell us about your 
dating Journey 
though I spent probably five six years 
working on me 
um I was too scared to get by the dating 
World it changed so much for me I mean 
after 20 years 
um entering back into the dating World 
um was just frightening to me and uh I 
had a really good friend who said you 
know what you need and I said what she 
goes you need a Bella and I was like 
who's a Bella what's a Bella and so she 
said you need to call Bella and I 
remember calling you and I told you my 
sorted story it's kind of one of those 
where you just want to have a 
um cry afterwards or a box of tissues 
and I told you my whole story and but I 
had felt for the first time I'm ready to 
explore now something else that's very 
scary to me which was dating 
um so again dating in this age is 
different than in your 20s because 
you're not as interested in you know 
you're not gonna have children with this 
person in theory I was not going to 
commingle funds or retirement honor or 
assets and so you're dating for 
different reasons it's more about 
compatibility and can we enjoy life 
together how will this person be if I 
need them to care give or if I need a 
caregiver for them 
um you start thinking about different 
things in your 20s don't even cross your 
radar and so I was fortunate that I 
found a Bella and I'll put air quotes 
Bella and who helped me really kind of 
enter into this this 
um cave or this this is this Abyss that 
I was not familiar with at all and hold 
my hand as I navigated these Waters I 
think you remember how how scared I was 
at the time to even just the online 
dating thing when you said you have to 
get online I was like what what what 
like how do I background screen all 
these people 
which you did 
I did I was so scared but you know I was 
like a horse like when you think about a 
little um 
yearling that's standing up for the 
first time it's been born it's only a 
few hours or days old and it goes to 
stand up and its legs are real shaky and 
it's trying its hardest to support its 
weight that's what I felt like when I 
came to you the first time and kind of 
my getting my legs about me in the 
dating World 
um and and having the confidence and the 
skills it's like anything else you know 
you need skills going in in tools going 
into this process and none of us get 
that when we're younger in high school 
you don't go to like learn how to date 
one-on-one class you know you just kind 
of do it you explore it well you're 
gonna have there's a little bit of that 
but there is some science and tools that 
you all so graciously share and educate 
on that help making navigating this 
field 
um easier and it gave me an opportunity 
to spot the the creepers or to spot the 
they're not your person people faster 
before you go down a path and maybe 
you're interested in this person and 
then you realize this person is not your 
person 
um so I'm grateful for what you all gave 
me and it in short it's confidence the 
level of confidence and tools 
um and where are you now Rachel Graham 
so you know I the one thing I had to 
kind of get my head around and I I've 
talked with my girlfriends about that is 
you know when you start dating you often 
think well I want to get remarried and 
we're going to do this we have this live 
and I had to get okay with the fact that 
in my own mind I didn't necessarily want 
to be remarried I it's not that I I love 
the the whole process of marriage and 
whatnot but I felt like I was at a place 
in my life where marriage wasn't the 
important attribute it was finding a 
really high quality guy to that I can 
enjoy doing things with that we have a 
good time that mine I had some very 
specific criteria and that you helped me 
with that get ahead of that and say 
these are the deal breakers and make 
sure that I flush that out when I'm 
meeting folks 
um to make sure that I when you don't 
have a plan or it's like a strategic 
plan at work you have a strategic plan 
on how you're going to embark on 
something and if you don't have a plan 
and you're navigating these Waters 
you're bound to kind of trip and make 
some mistakes so you gave me the 
opportunity to be very clear at what I 
was looking for what was important what 
are things I could tolerate maybe it you 
know wasn't exactly what I wanted but I 
could tolerate that but I think the 
other thing I realized is there's no 
Prince Charming and there's no princess 
out there you know there are people that 
are can be very good people that 
um have their own scars 
um and that you know are living life 
much like you learning sometimes and 
evolving and growing you know so this 
notion of my prince hasn't come yet 
there is no Prince that's a fairy tale 
you know we're all perfectly imperfect 
and relationships are going to be work 
but they're beautiful and they can be 
beautiful work even in the darkest 
moments so I have been very fortunate to 
meet someone and you know be able to 
explore you know life with that you know 
is is a lot of fun can be hilarious and 
I'm comfortable and I I learned I 
stopped trying to figure out The Next 
Step I'm letting things unfold 
organically as a type a entrepreneur 
female you know typically we want to 
know where we're going how we're going 
this what date and time are we doing 
this and those types of things and I've 
had to learn to just kind of Let It Go 
doesn't mean that I don't want to plan 
on when we're going to get together or 
go out on date night that's still 
important but you know not having to sit 
back and analyze a relationship on where 
it's going to be tomorrow or is it going 
to be a year from now and just letting 
it go and evolve if that makes sense 
and Rachel where did you meet can I say 
he's your fly guy and you can say why 
he's your Fly Guy and uh what happens 
when he walks through an airport how did 
you meet Fly Guy 
oh I met him online actually using the 
tools that you gave me and uh he's a 
pilot so I call him affectionately Fly 
Guy 
um he's a very good man and he's he's 
fabulous but he uh he's he's he's we 
have a lot of good times together and 
you know the thing about dating two at 
this age is typically like he has kids I 
have kids you know your kids there's 
oftentimes ex-spouses that you have to 
take into account so it puts a different 
kind of style on their relationship than 
when you're in your 20s and you're there 
is none of those roles or people and and 
so what I would tell people is extend 
Grace and compassion to each other 
especially when you're navigating 
challenges and being supportive of those 
challenges because sometimes we see 
things differently you know he's raising 
his kids one way I raise my kids another 
way sometimes it's very similar 
sometimes it's very different that's 
okay there's no right or wrong you know 
and being supportive and helpful 
in that role that you're in as the 
girlfriend or the you know I don't know 
partner whatever you want to call it 
role um with an individual so you guys 
helped me do that I met him online and 
went on several dates 
um and it was the Slow Burn like you 
talk about not this 
um Jump Right In you know flutters we 
call the butterflies and all those 
things butterflies are bad butterflies 
are bad and what starts fast ends fast 
yes 
and so we've just been letting it 
progress the way it needs to progress so 
um but I do credit you with with giving 
me that confidence in the tools because 
I had no idea what I was doing and I and 
you didn't let me swim alone out there 
there were sharks in the water and we 
figured them out pretty quick together 
um where to swim where not to swim uh so 
I'm grateful for that so thank you Bella 
for everything you've done for me it's 
an honor 100 and Rachel tell us you 
mentioned something earlier in the show 
that I want to come back to tell us a 
little bit about what you teach at 
evolve and at healing about what you 
call the drama triangle and how we can 
stay out of the drama triangle and 
dating or how that can potentially 
affect us 
yeah this so that it's Cartman Stephen 
Cartman came up with the drama triangle 
and there's three basic roles so hence 
the triangle three points there so one 
of them is the victim role that we've 
talked quite a bit about another one is 
the persecutor or sometimes you hear it 
called in the clinical terms of 
perpetrator role and then the third one 
is the coach or excuse me The Rescuer 
The Rescuer so you have The Rescuer the 
persecutor and the victim and those are 
all three very unhealthy 
roles that we all play first of all we 
all play on the drama triangle whether 
we want to or not and the concept is to 
recognize when you're on the drama 
triangle and shift to David Emerald's 
empowerment Dynamic which has this three 
roles but they're healthy versions of 
each one of the drama triangle roles so 
in the empowerment Dynamic you have the 
Creator so the victim morphs into a 
Creator so rather than the world is 
happening to me it's about what 
opportunity does this present for me The 
Rescuer morphs into a coach so rather 
than me rescuing you and doing these 
things to help you I'm teaching you how 
to do it for yourself if that makes 
sense 
and then the persecutor becomes a 
challenger so persecutor is the person 
sitting there doing this and wagging 
their finger in your face telling you 
um you know you're a bad person you're 
never going to understand this you've 
embarrassed the family whatever it may 
be and the Challenger says wait a minute 
I know you're capable of doing more or 
you've got the skills within you to be 
more successful on whatever it may be 
and so I give the example if you think 
about in relationships 
um the person if you're going out with 
someone and they sit there and talk 
about everything their ex-spouse did to 
them 
you know oh my ex-spouse did this and 
was this and um you know they the victim 
language 
that's probably a red flag that you need 
to talk about like with your your 
coaches your dating coaches because 
someone that's consistently in the 
victim role is in a very unhealthy state 
now if you see someone that's always in 
their restaurant role which I'm a 
recovering rescuer saying that can some 
there's a lot of us out there 
um Rescuers get their own validation by 
helping someone and so what looks to be 
an altruistic motivator it's really 
self-serving because it's I Don't Feel 
Complete unless I can take care of 
someone else and I'm taking care of 
someone else so I can avoid looking at 
my own problems 
and oftentimes that rescuer gets praised 
out there oh you know you go to Great 
Aunt Sally she's really good at helping 
people solve problems and she'll help 
you fix this 
well great Aunt Sally is probably a 
rescuer you know or the parent that you 
know gives their kid money even when 
they know they shouldn't be doing that 
um you know just to 
um have them be quiet because they're 
nagging them for money you know you're 
rescuing them 
so then on the persecutor side you know 
that person will actually go to the 
Challenger and all these rules are 
really really important so an example of 
that might be in a relationship if 
you're in a relationship with someone 
who's persecuting telling you you're fat 
that dress looks horrible on you I don't 
like that color lipstick on you 
um your friends are awful I hate your 
mother you know blah blah blah blah blah 
someone that's constantly doing that 
that's going to be persecutor mentality 
and that's something I would I would run 
you'll see that a lot with the 
narcissists they Bob in that persecutor 
and that victim roll quite a bit 
uh so really and truly what someone 
should be doing is challenging you so 
for example let's say you're walking 
around saying you know I really need to 
lose some weight and your partner's 
saying yeah you're fat that's persecutor 
they say what can I do to support you 
maybe we should get up and go for a walk 
instead of sitting here watching a movie 
or whatever it may be that's challenging 
someone and that's a loving thing and 
it's coming from a place of love not 
attacking the Core Essence of what or 
who someone is if that makes sense 
you see it a lot in parenting that 
Rescuers the helicopter parent when we 
think about that in school and The 
Rescuer can't exist without a victim so 
sometimes the rescue will create their 
own victim so they can jump in and 
rescue you know and the persecutors 
oftentimes the the mean teacher or the 
school that's making this happen to this 
poor little child you know the teacher 
says you got a D on your your grade and 
the parents upset going up there to 
argue with the teacher about the child's 
D when in fact the child did earn a d on 
the the assignment 
and what the parent can do is is 
challenge a kid saying I know you know 
how to do math better Little Johnny 
let's get you a tutor let's figure out 
what we need to do and I'm gonna be here 
right here with you or helping you 
um procure those resources to be more 
successful but you're gonna have to do 
the work you're gonna have to learn how 
to do the math a rescuer would do their 
math for him and turn it in 
um and we're not going to allow you to 
be a victim we're gonna say little 
Johnny what do you need to do to be 
successful in math so that we don't get 
a d again so you see it in all aspects 
of life in all relationships but that's 
the the concept is getting recognizing 
when you're on the drama triangle and 
how to get off and I'll conclude it with 
we can play different roles at different 
time with different people 
so and in different roles within the 
same argument so it could be that you 
feel persecuted by your spouse and so 
all of a sudden you're feeling like a 
victim but then you turn yourself into 
the persecuted by firing back at that 
person 
so that happens 
um and we can also play on that drama 
triangle all by ourselves so I tell my 
clients the story about how I flirt with 
the same 20 pounds I go up and down and 
up and down and 
um there's probably a whole back story 
behind all of that isn't there always to 
wait there is and so one of the things 
that let's say I've had a really crazy 
day at work and it's been stressful and 
I come home and I know I have the little 
Blue Bell ice cream cups in my freezer 
and I love those things there's nothing 
better than one of those little blue 
ball vanilla it has to be vanilla ice 
cream cuts and so I tell myself so 
here's the victim saying I've had a 
horrible day you know woe is me and then 
The Rescuer saying you know we've got 
the ice cream in the freezer you could 
have one of those they're only 150 
calories and you did a lot of walking 
today look at your watch how many steps 
did you do you know you can have one of 
those cups and so what do I do I eat the 
ice cream then who comes out the 
persecutor right the person who comes 
out going what are you doing you didn't 
walk enough to burn off you know the 
calories in that cup you should have 
never eaten that you're never going to 
get to your goal you're completely 
um off basis and you're an idiot for 
doing that so that's that story we start 
telling ourselves and the negative 
self-talk so you can see how we can play 
in that drama triangle 
all by ourselves we don't internally 
yeah 
unbelievable well Rachel's going to be 
so kind as to give us a free gift to 
give to you which is the bad drama 
triangle and the good triangle and how 
we can revise that so when you listen to 
this make sure you go to the show notes 
and it'll take you back to Rachel's page 
on the Smart dating Academy website and 
we're going to share her online dating 
photos maybe a picture of her with Fly 
Guy some interesting comments that came 
from this episode and a download where 
you can get the drama triangle and the 
triangle you want to be in so Rachel you 
are amazing thank you so much for 
sharing so vulnerably and now knowing 
how hard it is for you to be vulnerable 
I know how hard you've come to be able 
to even talk to us today about what 
you've been through so thank you we're 
humbled and Incredibly grateful that 
you're here with us and you know is 
there any last thing last bit of Hope or 
inspiration or advice you'd like to give 
the person who's listening to this 
I would say David Emerald wrote the the 
triangle of where you want to be it's 
called the empowerment Dynamic and he 
wrote a book called Ted t-e-d it's an 
acronym for the empowerment Dynamic it's 
an easy read even if you don't like to 
read it but it's a fictitious story 
about a guy named Ted and it really 
drives this point home about the drama 
triangle and getting off that and 
getting into an empowerment mindset and 
that the power's here it's not anything 
anyone's going to do for you it's about 
you making a conscious shift in the way 
that you view the world to then provoke 
different outcomes and a different 
approach to solving your own problems so 
I highly recommend that book and I will 
send you the um drama triangle Cartman 
Stephen Cartman's drama triangle next to 
the empowerment Dynamic David Emerald 
empowerment dynamic and I appreciate 
this time together thank you so much for 
having me my gosh I'm gonna have to 
think about my own internal drama 
triangle when I stare at some Cheetos 
later in the day today I'm going to be 
the perpetrator the victim as well yes 
what's the third one rescuer The Rescuer 
yeah you've had a bad day today have the 
Cheetos you suck for eating the Cheetos 
you loser I can just hear all of my 
inner monologues now so thank you Rachel 
and for more information 
um we'll have everything in the show 
notes where you can look at Rachel and 
you can get your drama triangle so thank 
you and as usual if you love this 
episode give us five stars write a 
review tell Rachel how freaking amazing 
she is for sharing her journey of 
betrayal and healing with us until next 
time we will see you soon 
