[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators I am so excited 
to be with you today and to talk about 
something that's especially relevant at 
this time of year as we go into the 
holiday seasons I can't believe how 
quickly this year has passed and that 
we're already into December right we 
just came off of Thanksgiving and the 
holidays are an amazing time but they 
can also be a time where we can start to 
feel lonely we can start to feel sad and 
old traumas grief can come back up 
around this time of year and it's 
incredibly normal and what I want to 
talk to you about today is how do you 
put yourself into a better State of Mind 
dare I say how do you become 
optimistic about your life and let's 
take it one step further how do you 
become 
psychotically Optimum about your dating 
life and your love life for those of you 
who have followed us in the 13 years 
that we have been around I have been 
espousing our philosophy of psychotic 
optimism for over a decade now and what 
is psychotic optimism right 
psychotic optimism means you are 
optimistic about your dating life and 
your love life and psychotically I know 
that that word can rub some people the 
wrong way especially therapists and 
people in in that type of practice but I 
mean this affectionately with a little 
bit of humor around it when I say 
psychotically optimistic it means we 
stay optimistic even when things are 
going sideways even when we've hit a dry 
patch in the dating World we've been 
broken up with we can't meet somebody 
that we're feeling chemistry with maybe 
we got ghosted by somebody maybe we got 
friend zoned by somebody staying 
optimistic about the fact that love is 
out there for you there is a lid to your 
pot and so 
um I want you today to take all of the 
tips that I'm going to give you about 
how to become a psychotic optimist about 
your life and imbibe them and if you do 
these things I promise you it takes some 
work as all big things in life do but as 
you start to do these things and 
systematically bring them into your life 
you will feel better about yourself and 
you will feel better about your life now 
let's talk about psychotic optimism the 
first thing I want you to do is to tell 
yourself during this holiday season peak 
dating season which is coming over up 
around the corner I want you to tell 
yourself this is my Mantra okay self 
love will come to me it's a when it's 
not an if it is certain that I'm going 
to find the lid to my pot no matter what 
no matter how old I am no matter where I 
live no matter if I've never been 
married no matter if I've been married 
and divorced five times no matter if I 
had my soul mate and my soul mate passed 
early new great love is coming to me 
it's a when not an if and all I have to 
do is continue to date until I find this 
person I want you to believe in your 
core that the lid to your pot exists 
because if you don't believe it what 
good is going to come of that if you say 
to yourself I'm going to be a psychotic 
pessimist which so many of us are we 
don't even realize that it's like meh 
why bother it's not out there for me I'm 
just gonna do nothing or keep doing the 
same old stuff and wait for something to 
plunk into my lap no you don't want to 
do that you want to be absolutely 
optimistic but then I'm not telling you 
to live in a fantasy world and say I'm 
psychotically optimistic and that the 
perfect lid to my pot is going to fall 
right into my lap I want you to also be 
realistic love does exist for you but 
the reality is that it's gonna take some 
work and it's gonna take you changing up 
your mindset changing up the things 
you're going to do changing up the 
amount of work you put into this to find 
the lid to your pot so you are 
psychotically optimistic that the lid to 
your pot exists but you are realistic 
and knowing that Jeff Bezos ain't going 
to Amazon Prime your your boot to your 
mailbox in 48 hours because you're 
manifesting them you're going to have to 
do some work to get there so hopefully 
this makes perfect sense for you so 
being psychotically optimistic knows 
that your lid is out there and it knows 
that it's going to take some work to get 
there so 
here's probably 12 things I think on 
this list of things that I've banged out 
for you I'm looking at my own mindset 
and what we teach our clients on a 
weekly basis at Smart dating Academy 
right because dating is a marathon it's 
not a Sprint and how do people stay in 
the game long term even when the chips 
seem down right the first thing I want 
you to know is that you're not always 
going to be optimistic right and you 
don't always want to take the fantasy 
rose-colored view but I want you to 
identify in your mind that negative 
voice that comes to you and most times 
we can take that negative voice and we 
can isolate it some of us don't even 
hear it right but when you hear that 
voice that might be saying to you 
whatever Bella love doesn't exist for me 
I'm too old I'm too out of shape blah 
blah blah blah that's a crazy person 
that lives inside of your head that 
clutches a you all day long telling you 
all of the bad things that are going to 
keep you stuck I want you to know in 
your mind identify there's a crazy 
negative person that lives inside of my 
head now think of the most awful name 
that you can right someone that you 
didn't like somebody that bullied you 
when you were young a name that you hate 
a name this crazy person in your head 
when Jaden my daughter was little we 
taught her how to do this and the voice 
inside of her head that gave her all 
these negative thoughts we called it 
Alvin so Alvin in our house is the 
negative crazy person that lives inside 
of your head so feel free to hijack the 
name Alvin also if you would like to or 
name it Sylvia name it whatever I've 
heard my clients give it lots of names 
so you I want you to separate yourself 
from the negative voice in your head 
right when you start to hear that just 
say oh that's Alvin again and personify 
that right and tell Alvin to stop 
talking and talk back to Alvin what 
Alvin that's you up to your old Antics 
again that's not true love does exist 
for me it's a when not an if I know this 
is going to be hard because I'm a 
realist but I know that the only way to 
stay single forever is to do nothing or 
to keep doing the same thing over and 
over again so name that voice and learn 
to quiet that voice right and then what 
I want you to do the second thing is 
what we call positive reframing there's 
so many people that will constantly 
revert to the negative instead of going 
to the positive but what I want you to 
do is learn how to positively reframe 
all of your thoughts that are 
re-frameable let's say you know you're a 
person that you know just said oh my 
entire day was ruined because it rained 
outside and when I ever it rains outside 
it's gloom and doom and I can't do the 
things that I wanted to do today so ugh 
the rain ruined it now I would say to 
you okay 
is there something positive that came 
out of this you couldn't do what you 
wanted to do today maybe your lawn work 
what did you do well 
maybe that gave you the opportunity to 
binge watch a Netflix series that all of 
your friends on Facebook have been 
telling you to watch maybe you got to 
read a book and curl up and stay in your 
pajamas on a Saturday when you didn't 
have to go out and do lawn work can you 
reframe the negative to be positive 
catch yourself and say if you're 
starting to feel bad can I reframe this 
thought we do this a lot right when 
let's say you're feeling kind of bad 
about yourself and you're feeling bad 
about your job and you go to work and 
your boss that normally says hi to you 
every morning and says good morning when 
they walk in walks right by you and and 
you were like oh my God maybe they're 
ready to fire me right she always says 
hi to me but she didn't say hi today oh 
now maybe you at that moment you can say 
ah Alvin hold on a second why am I 
assuming this is about me if my boss 
walked right past me maybe I can reframe 
it my boss was thinking about something 
else in her life that she needed to do 
and she didn't see me maybe my boss 
wears contacts and she didn't have her 
contact lens sitting there and she 
didn't see me reframe your negative 
thought to a positive thought that's 
realistic and a realistic interpretation 
and you'll find yourself feeling so much 
better so quickly when you teach 
yourself how to do this okay now the 
third thing I want you to do and I just 
went through this exercise this week on 
my own because I was feeling a little 
down and out you know I've written in 
our newsletter my mom was in the 
hospital for eight days I'm watching my 
dad age my college daughter was home and 
had some ups and downs right and it's 
times can get hard sometimes right and 
so what I did I wanted to get myself 
into the good Bella Grande psychotically 
optimistic space and so what did I do 
I'm a list maker and so I made two lists 
okay what are the things in my life that 
bring me joy right and I wrote down 
things like you know what gives me joy 
is getting outside for a walk right and 
I I've lost touch with some of these 
things because I'm so busy I'm a wife a 
daughter a mother of two teenagers I'm a 
business owner I'm a friend I'm a 
colleague I'm so many things but 
sometimes I lose track of myself and 
what brings me joy and so one of the 
things was reading something every 
single day getting out for a walk 
learning something new and you know what 
I've done for the last seven days I've 
done exactly those things that have that 
bring me joy because I lost touch with 
those things and when I sat down to make 
that list I was like oh my gosh this is 
so simple I'm going to start to put 
these things actively into my life and 
I've started to do them and the other 
list that I made concurrently with that 
was a list of things that sap The Joy 
from my life what are the things that 
are the buzz kills that I hate doing and 
I started to make a list of those things 
and guess what I'm gonna do some of 
those things I can't stop doing but some 
of those things I can Outsource and have 
other people do some of those things I 
can't change and I have to do but I cut 
out half of those things by Outsourcing 
them and it's been amazing just leveling 
up with those two lists make yourself a 
list what brings you great joy and what 
saps you of energy do more of the joyful 
things get rid of the energy sappers and 
watch your optimism in there for your 
psychotic optimism start to increase as 
you do more things that make you happy 
right now the fourth thing I want you to 
do is look at the company that you're 
keeping in your life who are the people 
that you spend the most time with maybe 
it's your colleagues at work work maybe 
it's your family maybe it's your friends 
I don't know who these people are the 
things that you listen to are these 
people positive or are they Debbie 
downers are they negative when I spend 
time with people that complain that are 
gloom and doom I start to feel 
negatively and I have to unplug myself 
from those people and go back to things 
that elevate me that put me in that 
positive mindset look at the people that 
you are spending time with maybe you're 
listening to them on podcasts maybe 
you're listening to them on the news 
whatever it is if you are feeling down 
look at the company that you're keeping 
and then think about people in your life 
that are more positive start spending 
time with those people maybe you need to 
add more positive people to your life do 
a consultation with me but we'll start 
working with us and our team get a coach 
get a therapist get somebody who's going 
to lift you up and put be one of those 
positive elevator people that elevate 
you in your life but look carefully at 
the company that you're keeping and if 
you feel like these people are negative 
it's time to rebuild your circle of 
people so that you are constantly buoyed 
up by positive energy from positive 
people remember positive people aren't 
living out of reality they're not 
Pollyanna pen glossian people but 
they're people that generally are the 
glass half full people those are the 
people that you want around you as much 
as possible okay now the next thing that 
you can do is 
volunteer and give back whenever I'm 
feeling sad and down I do something 
that's special for somebody else maybe 
you love pets you can go to a shelter 
and volunteer with your time maybe you 
love going to nursing homes and singing 
carols to some of the senior citizens 
that are there maybe you want to go into 
an orphanage and bring gifts to children 
do something that is going to make you 
feel like you have put some love into 
the world and it's okay that acts of 
generosity are ultimately self-driven 
because we feel better but isn't it 
better to make ourselves feel better by 
doing something good for someone else 
than not volunteer yourself right and 
think about where you can give back and 
go do that if doing philanthropy 
volunteering giving of your time your 
effort or your resource says make you 
feel so good about your life right and 
that gets into my next point is being 
grateful for what you have and we pay 
gratitude short trip guys but there are 
oodles and oodles and oodles of studies 
that show again becoming optimistic also 
requires retraining your brain to look 
for what's good in your life and if you 
can put yourself into the discipline of 
journaling every single day to write 
down the good that is in your life and 
specifically granularly the good things 
that have happened to you and you do 
this day by day by day watch how you 
start to look for what's good you are 
retraining your brain that might Veer 
towards negativity to look for what is 
good don't just think oh yeah I I 
thought about the three things today 
writing them down these are all things 
that retrain our brains to be positive 
look for what's good look for the great 
things that have happened to you today 
maybe that steaming cup of black coffee 
with a little bit of vanilla flavoring 
brought you Joy this morning write that 
down so that you know oh my gosh I 
really do have some good things in my 
life and that can be one of the things 
that brings you Joy and you put more of 
those things into your life on a daily 
basis but all of this requires 
Consciousness right and that's what I 
want you to think about being conscious 
and being mindful but gratitude 
journaling on a daily basis will begin 
to change your life right and the next 
thing I want you to do is move your body 
okay I told you walking brings me joy 
for those of you who know me you know I 
work out pretty religiously I'm a runner 
I'm a pelotoner I'm an elliptical but I 
love to walk do something that moves 
your body every single day it's not just 
your physical health that will reap 
great rewards for this but your mental 
health the endorphins and the hormonal 
surges of happiness that we get when we 
move our bodies they're unparalleled I 
work out and move as much for my mental 
health as I do for my physical health I 
want you while you're listening to this 
podcast hopefully you're going to put it 
on repeat and you're going to take notes 
of all the things that I say but I want 
you to listen to this podcast while 
you're walking go for a walk and have me 
in your ear telling you I am 
psychotically optimistic for you I know 
the lid to your pot is coming and I want 
you to re surround yourself with that 
positivity maybe listen to me all the 
time over and over again but put that 
positivity into your life be grateful 
that you have the opportunity to listen 
to things like this that can shower you 
with all of those good fun things right 
and so now that you're exercising and 
you're going to listen to me while 
you're walking I want you to do 
something that is stirs things up for 
you maybe something that makes you 
nervous every single day because that 
means you're pushing yourself out of 
your comfort zone along with gratitude 
journaling maybe you can write down 
something that you've never done that 
you can do before doing something that 
pushes you a little bit out of your 
comfort zone builds your confidence 
maybe it's tomorrow when I'm at the 
grocery store I'm gonna say thank you so 
much to the cashier and give them a 
genuine compliment about the job they 
did about the beautiful color of their 
eyes do something that pushes you just a 
little bit out of your comfort zone 
every day because that is what builds 
confidence that is what builds skills 
and it builds a little adrenaline in 
your system a little bit of excitement 
and it's going to make you feel better 
more competent and like you're on a like 
you're on this quest for personal growth 
okay do one thing today that scares your 
push you out of your comfort zone and 
when you listen to this write a comment 
about it in you know give us a rating 
whatever you want to do and write what 
you learn and the thing that's going to 
make that you're going to push yourself 
out of your comfort zone to do I want 
you to be accountable to yourself heck 
be accountable to me I read the reviews 
so do something that's going to scare 
you and build your confidence you will 
start to go oh my gosh I'm learning so 
many new things and I'm feeling better 
about myself because I'm becoming more 
confident amazing okay now I want to 
tell you about the next thing which is 
something that's so near and dear to my 
heart great happy music inspires me it 
makes me feel really really happy can 
you identify sit down maybe get on 
Spotify get on Apple Tunes go to YouTube 
whatever free service you have or paid 
service and think about the songs that 
just bring you Joy or bring you back to 
a beautiful happy time in your life I've 
got dozens of those songs for me that 
make me feel like I'm Invincible I'm on 
top of the world they make me feel 
empowered those are the songs on my 
running playlist right because they make 
me go better faster stronger think about 
your life different points in your life 
maybe it was grade school maybe it was 
high school maybe it was College maybe 
it was when you were Young and Wild and 
Free think about 10 songs that make you 
happy heck start with three to five and 
play those every single day and start to 
rewire your brain that when you start to 
hear those songs you feel happy oh 
here's my happy playlist I'm going to 
feel happy but make that playlist do 
this religiously and you're gonna start 
to say oh my gosh this is my Happy song 
I know I'm supposed to feel happy when I 
listen to this right and second into 
last point in psychotic optimism and 
making yourself feel good and feel 
joyous connect with somebody connect 
with a friend that you haven't talked to 
in a while maybe you can mend offense 
with somebody that you burned a bridge 
with that you really miss in your life 
maybe you can call a relative that's 
lonely that you haven't talked to in a 
while call your kids call your mom call 
a neighbor go for a walk connect with 
someone that you have in relationships 
are what make us happiest in life as 
human beings you have so much love in 
your life right make a list of all of 
the people that love you if you think 
that you're out there by yourself and 
you don't have love in your life ground 
yourself by making a list of all of the 
people that love you there are so many 
people look at the love that you already 
have in your life and then pick one of 
those people call them on the phone 
don't text them develop that connection 
with somebody talk to them live when I 
connect with my favorite people in my 
life sometimes I wonder oh my gosh how 
am I going to call so and so today I 
don't have time and when I do I am so 
happy and I feel so much better when 
I've connected with one of my besties 
okay and so these things that I have 
told you I think there were 12 in here 
will make you feel so much better more 
optimistic about your life and more 
psychotically optimistic about your love 
life and now the peak dating season is 
going to come you guys I want you to 
think about remember being realistic 
what are you going to do now that you're 
in a better State of Mind to take steps 
to change up your dating life what are 
you going to do for online dating are 
you going to do new photos are you going 
to change up some text in your profile 
are you going to change up the apps that 
you're on are you going to look at the 
radius of people you're searching on 
what are you going to change up in your 
dating life and what I want to encourage 
you to do is if this resonates with you 
and if you're feeling good and 
psychotically optimistic and you haven't 
yet invested in yourself because you 
haven't believed in the opportunity or 
believed in the fact that love is going 
to come to you reach out and send us in 
a note invest in working with us for 
Peak dating season I promise you nothing 
but good will come from this is love 
going to come to you automatically no 
it's not but you are going to stay 
psychotically optimistic about your 
chances to find love because I and my 
psychotic Optimist on my team Eileen 
Michelle 
Lindsay Anissa Carla Martha you guys 
know everybody we are all there to be 
your village come with us work with us 
join our one-on-one programs do a 
consultation if you can't spring for 
that listen to Old podcast episodes but 
I want to leave you with the note of 
you can become more optimistic about 
your dating life about your love like 
hell you can even become a psychotic 
Optimist play this episode again and 
again send it to your friends and family 
send it to the elevator people that you 
love and let them know you're a person 
that is so optimistic and you're a 
person that I want to spend more time 
with because you're one of the most 
positive people I know I send you this 
with love I send you lots of psychotic 
optimism for Peak dating season and I 
can't wait to see you again next week 
Big Love until then 
