in honor of independence day is how to 
become and seem more independent not 
just on your dates but also for those of 
you that are in relationships because 
independence 
is sexy it's that person if you close 
your eyes and you think about somebody 
who's independent right you think about 
somebody who 
just has it going on has their own life 
and they're just comfortable and 
confident in their skin right they could 
be in love and be happy but they're also 
just as happy with themselves when 
they're not what i want to teach you how 
to do in this episode today is not be so 
needy or conversely become your most 
independent self so that you are more 
confident you're happier in your life 
and you come off as more attractive and 
more sexy whether it be to a brand new 
date to somebody who you're on a fifth 
date with or somebody you've been in a 
relationship with for six months or six 
years or six decades 
