[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love hi smart daters 
welcome back Happy Peak dating season I 
hope things are going wonderfully for 
you and that you have enjoyed the other 
three episodes that we've done just this 
week alone for you how to pick the best 
dating apps for 
2023 how do you date multiple people at 
once and have a funnel and how can you 
tell that you might be dating a player 
and what the top 10 signs are for today 
what I'm going to tell you is how many 
dates should I give it before I call it 
quits um are you ready CA I'm ready well 
the answer to that is it depends now let 
me lay it all out for you when should 
you when should you call it quit so so 
if you go out on a date with someone 
okay well let me start it with this let 
me tell you first and foremost love is 
going to come to you in an unexpected 
package again love will come to you in a 
beautifully unexpected package and what 
does that mean he or she or they are 
going to be different than what you 
think they are they're going to look 
different they're going to be different 
they might come from a different place 
they might have a totally different 
background ground than you do they might 
have a totally different job than you do 
they might have no interests in common 
with you and yet you still find that 
they're the lid to your pot this person 
will come to you differently than you 
imagined but isn't that s isn't that 
exciting we tell our clients during our 
jump start session which is the first 
way we on board people during our in our 
VIP coaching service is it makes dating 
so much more exciting when you know love 
is going to come to you in an unexpected 
package because they're going to be 
different and it makes casting your net 
out wider a whole lot easier be Broad in 
your searches for height age zip code 
ethnicity religion interests all of 
those things the quantitative things be 
as broad as you can without being untrue 
to yourself so love is going to come to 
you in an unexpected package Broad your 
parameter so you get the most people 
into your dating funnel right every inch 
every year every mile you expand your 
radius of Interest you're going to bring 
in dozens hundreds perhaps even 
thousands of different candidates right 
so know that love is going to come to 
you in an unexpected package so give 
people more of the benefit of the doubt 
now what I'm going to tell you is what 
people typically look for and the reason 
they want to get rid of people and get 
rid of people quickly is they're not 
feeling chemistry they're not feeling 
butterflies well if you've been 
listening to me for a long enough time 
you know that butterflies in the dating 
World especially on the first or second 
date are bad they're your body telling 
you that there's fear there's anxiety 
this person reminds you of somebody that 
you knew in the past right because fear 
and anxiety are very closely related to 
excitement right and so a lot of times 
when we feel those heavy butterflies 
where our stomach is flipping over 
that's a sign that this person person 
may not be good for us but that's what 
we're often looking for in the dating 
world and that's why we want to throw 
people back if we're not feeling that 
whoosh of chemistry but just know ladies 
and gentlemen chemistry can be sparked 
at any given time by something 
intellectual by something emotional I 
had a client once years ago who was 
going on a fifth date with a guy she 
wasn't feeling the chemistry she wasn't 
sure if there was any physical 
attraction but he said to her and they 
were going to go on their sixth date can 
you meet me at this building downtown 
and she happened to be in Chicago he 
says I'm doing a mentoring session for 
Big Brothers little brothers and just 
come into the building and meet me there 
and then we'll go out to dinner after 
that and she thought okay sure I'll go 
meet him there so she poked around and 
she found the room where he was 
mentoring the little brother and she was 
standing outside the door and she heard 
the soulfulness and the authenticity and 
the care and the love that this man was 
mentoring this boy who didn't have any 
parents just a guardian at this point 
and was lost on his way that my client 
suddenly started to go oh my God he's 
amazing and she started to feel like she 
had a little bit of a crush on him and 
had some excitement about him and 
started to feel some chemistry so 
different things you guys can throw that 
chemistry over the line so if you're 
still interested in somebody you're 
having fun but you're not feeling that 
physical chemistry yet continue to date 
that person until you see a red flag now 
that red flag might come out on day one 
date one it might come out on date two 
it might come out on date six or date 10 
but as soon as you start to see red 
flags I either you cut bait right away 
based on what the red flag is or give 
that person potentially one more date to 
see if there's another red flag because 
it's like cockroaches once you detect 
one you know there's a whole bunch more 
if you detect a red flag give it a 
yellow flag and if it's not a bad one 
and you're not sure give it one more day 
but what are red flags somebody that 
seems really angry that seems Negative 
they have nothing nice to say about 
anybody maybe you're out to dinner and 
they're mean to the weight staff they're 
really short to them they're really 
really nice to you but they're you know 
just edgy and abrasive when their meal 
doesn't come out right or when the valet 
doesn't come quickly enough it's 
blizzarding in Chicago and it's freezing 
cold and if that person gets mean and 
edgy with the person trying to bring the 
car just know that someday that or 
quickly that anger is going to turn on 
you right somebody who plays the victim 
they hate their job they hate their boss 
they hate you know their ex their exes 
turn their kids against them anybody who 
seems to play the victim is certainly a 
red flag a red flag is also ladies and 
gentlemen someone who just sits there 
and they you know like I said on my 
podcast with Larry Kaufman they show up 
and they throw up they have no interest 
in getting to know you they have no 
interest in asking you questions even if 
you redirect the conversation like oh 
would you like to know something about 
me or that reminds me of a time if they 
just continue to come back to themselves 
that's definitely a yellow if not a red 
flag and if you sense this person has 
troubled relationships with everybody 
around them they don't have a lot of 
friends or they don't have anything nice 
to say about the people in their lives 
they've cut things off with their kids 
with their exes with their colleagues 
this is a person who probably has red 
flags and another red flag is someone 
who says that they've cheated on people 
in the past or I'm going to throw out 
another red flag somebody says that 
they've always been cheated on and they 
haven't done any work on themselves to 
understand why so all of these things 
there's a thousand red flags and these 
are the things that we teach you in our 
one-on-one dat coaching practice but for 
purposes of this mini episode I wanted 
to let you know when do you throw 
someone back to the pond okay if just 
know again this is all related love is 
going to come to you in an unexpected 
package keep trying to date this person 
if there are no red flags to see if the 
chemistry can build and after 8 10 11 12 
dates until the thought of this person 
holding your hands or trying to kiss you 
makes you screamish or ick or makes you 
want to throw up okay you can be done 
with this person right and that's when 
you know the chemistry might not flip 
over the line or if this person throws 
down red flags you can end that 
relationship right then and there or 
give it one more date to see if more red 
flags come out so in general there's no 
one right number to get rid of someone 
or when you should stop dating somebody 
this is a very fluid process and 
remember we don't want you getting 
exclusive with anybody until 15 plus 
dates over 3 to four months slow and 
steady wins the race don't be too quick 
to throw somebody back to the pond if 
you're not feeling the physical 
chemistry because remember just like my 
client watching the guy mentoring you 
can have emotional intellectual 
spiritual some kind of chemistry that 
can tip that physical chemistry over the 
line for those of you who don't know 
Andy my husband and I of 25 years and I 
were good friends zero chemistry for 
years before we started dating until I 
got my mental house in order and 
realized what a great person he was and 
I stopped dating red flaggy people I 
didn't feel the attraction right so that 
attraction for you two can grow so moral 
of the story if there are red flags cut 
it off right then and there or give that 
person one more date if it's a yellow 
flag and not a dangerous red flag and if 
you continue to get to like this person 
more and more keep dating them until you 
know that there's absolutely no hope of 
the chemistry flipping over I'm not 
saying that you should date this person 
for 6 years 
like Andy and me but I'm saying give it 
a Skippers try chemistry can flip over 
the line now one of the love stories 
that we have helped to co-author at 
Smart dating Academy started off with 
the bang started off with this person 
saying this is the best date I've ever 
been on I've got a massive amount of 
chemistry I know I've just met my 
soulmate it's slow it's steady there's 
not a lot of chemistry in the beginning 
but we do it slowly steadily over the 
course of several weeks and months to 
see see if that person is good for you 
so when should you throw this person 
back to the pond and end it now you know 
a lots of the behind the scenes at Smart 
dating Academy and if you need help 
building your dating funnel mastering 
online dating before January 8th which 
is the busiest online dating day of the 
year join today walk don't walk run join 
the online dating love lab you can go to 
Smart dating academy.com and click the 
online dating love lab or click the link 
in the browser of the show notes to get 
yourself a space in our love lab if 
you've loved our podcast for the last 
year this is the most economical way to 
be in a small group to learn one- on-one 
how to online date the right way to get 
the Perfect online profile because you 
get access by being part of this online 
dating love lab to the proprietary book 
that only our one-on-one clients get or 
people that participate in the online 
dating love lab which creates the the 
perfect profile for match or Bumble and 
that Baseline text can be used on all of 
the other significant sites and apps 
will teach you how to pose and how to 
take the best photos of yourself so by 
Sunday January 88th in the evening 
during the 800 p.m hour which will be 
the busiest moment of the busiest day 
you can be taking advantage of finding 
love in 2023 and putting your best foot 
forward I hope you enjoyed this episode 
you know when to cut off the dating 
process with someone that might throw 
down red flags or how to let that 
chemistry build slowly and surely don't 
look for butterflies and until tomorrow 
I can't wait to talk to you 
then 
