[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find l 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to the podcast I'm so 
excited to introduce my friend my client 
former client Stacy Catz who is an 
entrepreneur a coach a total badass and 
Stacy and I today are going to talk 
about how you are going to get more 
relaxed and more powerful in dating and 
in your entire life so Stacy welcome to 
the podcast oh what an honor to be here 
and just you know how much I adore you 
and how wonderful this community is so 
thank you for having me well you're so 
welcome so how did you how did tell us 
about the beginning of our relationship 
remind me how did you find yes so I've 
been an entrepreneur and um my company 
was do about to do a deal with Steve 
Harvey so I started researching Steve 
Harvey I found you and it was like an 
explosion in my heart and in my brain 
and in my 
being 
and I was getting my M's in spiritual 
psychology and they had a s yes project 
and mine 
was relationship and 
sensuality and I just knew 
immediately I'm G to be Bella's client 
because you said be psychotically 
optimistic and at the time uh whatever 
the opposite of being psychotically 
optimistic was just psychotic maybe I 
yeah yeah psychotically uh fearful and 
negative 
um you know really there was just 
something that I was holding and I knew 
I needed your support 
to go you know just get back in the pool 
as a single mom so that's how I found 
you and it was amazing and I think 
within four weeks I had a Bo two 
boyfriends 
so it was so fun coaching you and 
watching you you know find love watching 
you evolve as an entrepreneur and now 
you have become a certified coach and 
you are going to be here to wind 
together all sorts of knowledge all 
sorts of things to help us be better so 
tell us about what you're doing now 
absolutely 
so I have spent thousands of dollars and 
hours sort of moving from self-sabotage 
to 
self-improvement to self-acceptance 
to self- leadership and I'm really 
committed that everybody can get there 
shorter faster quicker and you know with 
a little bit less uh ditches to fall 
into really that's just my commitment is 
I've really um worked with Masters and 
my teachers have retired or they're just 
so so expensive that it's not really for 
everybody and I want to democratize 
access because I have really found tools 
that completely work and everyone tells 
you you know like so it was like be 
psychotically optimistic or do this but 
how how do I do that how be how the how 
what's the what's the magical how how do 
I learn how to ride the bike I know I 
need to to ride the bike how do I do 
this and it's experiential learning it's 
really having the experience of it with 
a guide in my opinion my experience I 
love that so let's get into having a 
guide and how do you go from 
psychotically pessimistic to 
psychotically optimistic so take us 
through some of the steps that you would 
suggest if we're feeling kind of you 
know where you were when we first met 
like I don't know if love exists for me 
if it does I'm scared of it I just I 
don't know what I don't know like am I 
going to get my heart broken am I going 
to be disappointed are there any good 
people out there like what the what 
exactly exactly the key is learning how 
to transform your limiting beliefs and 
nonuseful 
thinking and transforming them and 
transmuting them into something into 
something that empowers you right 
because it's we're only suffering from 
our 
thoughts and we're taking what I call 
what well we're taking the past and 
we're putting into the future right and 
a lot of that is somatic some of it was 
you know by the time I got to you I 
knew intellectually but there was some 
fear in my in my body too right and so 
what I work with clients and the and the 
method that I've used is really 
a releasing judgments practice 
right that I think is the key because 
when we show up and that track is and 
it's just part of Being Human there's 
nothing wrong it's just part of being 
human right but when we have that track 
I'm not pretty does he like me GH look 
at his shoes H he's he's Baler than his 
pictures he doesn't make enough money 
he's he doesn't make enough money she's 
you know 5 pound over what her 
pictures are you know convey all those 
things the thoughts the that track is in 
our way of creating the talk is in our 
way of being having access to being 
psychotically timis so it's just our 
thoughts it's just our thoughts it's not 
you know it feels like brick walls this 
is the truth you know this happened to 
me and he's bald like facts right that 
we have to weigh through and and handle 
and deal with and when we can learn how 
to trans identify oh these are just my 
thoughts it's just my 
fear and to work with I forgive myself 
for judging myself as not enough I 
forgive myself for judging him as bald 
and not making enough 
money and the truth is we're all whole 
complete and beautiful souls right and 
if we can just get some altitude and 
some space from that negative barrage 
then we can show up with another human 
being and really connect from 
there which is like completely 
revolutionary in my 
opinion 100% so you said a lot in there 
and I want 
unpack limiting beliefs thoughts and 
then we talked about releasing judgments 
okay now let's get into the mind of a 
typical dater right let's you know we 
can take you for example okay I am a 50s 
something you know woman who hasn't been 
married you want to get back into the 
dating world like what are what happen 
happens and how do we manage ourselves 
great we all have it 
great you know I believe that the key 
it's it's an inside out job right I mean 
we've got you Bella and you're making us 
you know you're helping us be beautiful 
and and present well and I'll never 
forget when you had me practice how I 
was talking in front of the camera and I 
was like this right you have you're 
you're the beautiful pictures everything 
so the outside and the actions being 
handled with your 
support and how but you're not there 
when we're getting ready for the date 
you're not there when you know you're 
trying to come up with a response to the 
60th text like how are we moving right 
we're not in your brains at you know 
unfortunately and and that's also 
beautiful because we need to learn how 
to transition ourselves from a NE from a 
negative to a 
neutral to a more empowering place right 
so I'll walk you through sort of a day 
in the life of how I do it differently 
now and how I help my clients do it 
right so one is the fear starts coming 
up and I I do something called Freedom 
writing where I will light a candle and 
I will just write down all the fears all 
the negativity it's not really 
journaling it's just this is stupid why 
am I doing this it's just 
literally writing down every single 
that's coming into your head right so 
it's really 
about getting it out of the back of your 
brain out so you just kind of release 
and you'll know when it's done because 
you'll start you'll feel calmer you know 
and you do Freedom writing Stacy when 
you start to feel like you're getting 
into that negative state so carry a damn 
notebook around with you people yes 
absolutely absolutely because it happens 
we're human beings it can happen even in 
the bathroom which or you know just like 
oh you 
know right and then I rip it up and 
throw it away oh okay and you never 
reread it because that you're clearing 
the energy you're clearing the the space 
out of your head and your experience and 
you're just clearing right so that 
really helps to sort of flush 
things and yeah so let's say we're 
getting ready for a date and we're 
starting to get anxious okay you're 
putting on your Berry lip all of you 
smart dater women you we've got to have 
our lips popped right we're getting 
ready on the outside but suddenly what 
happens W if you're thinking to yourself 
yes what if this person doesn't look 
like their pictures what if it's boring 
what if I like him and he doesn't like 
me and he doesn't ask me out again so in 
that moment we get this anxious barrage 
of thoughts right what do we do at that 
moment we're getting ready for the day 
right most people will call their 
friends right and you know we're trying 
to get our mindset right this is about 
you getting right with you 
because who you show up as and I'm GNA 
tell you a story about about my coffee 
date how we show up can dramatically 
change the course of that date and how 
the other person shows up so this isn't 
about getting pumped up by your 
girlfriend okay how do I look this is 
this is internal 
alignment I love I think this is 
something that is so missed by people 
right not you know so I want to get my 
mind right my soul right I want to get 
connected to Spirit I want to feel whole 
and calm and relaxed and Powerful me 
with 
me so it really doesn't matter how that 
other person shows up right so it's I'm 
getting I'm getting rid of the anxiety 
cuz for me it was like H you know I 
could be in my sweats right now I could 
be you know be with your son you could 
be yeah there's like a you know because 
it's time and attention there's a 
million things we could be doing rather 
than putting the spanks and the lipstick 
on right the heels that hurt yeah so 
it's like oh why am I doing this so 
whenever I get in that g why am I doing 
this I start write Freedom writing 
getting clear of those liit that 
limitation right and it it can it goes 
pretty fast you can take 10 minutes 
and build it into your plan ladies build 
this into your plan okay so Freedom 
writing and obviously and I and Bella I 
know that you know you'll gu people 
great playlist but this is an internal 
cleans an 
internal 
and you know if you can get 
still if you can you know 
just no ask ask the universe to just be 
I'm whole 
complete and nobody gets to validate 
me or reject 
me like I'm I'm good with me this is the 
whole exercise the whole way of being is 
like you're great with you you show up 
high Vibe because you love 
you and not only that what can you do to 
offer this other person so that they 
feel whole safe and complete even if 
it's not you know Fourth of July 
fireworks and you never see them again 
you get to serve that person to help 
them feel 
great how cool would that 
be am I love that I love that and what 
women sometimes complain about a little 
tangent is I'll go in there and I'll ask 
questions and be positive and be 
interesting and The person talks for two 
hours Non-Stop 
yeah well here's the deal you're not a 
victim you get to you you can like you 
guys are badass in business you're 
probably in sales you know how to you 
know you're not a different just just be 
relaxed and Powerful you don't have to 
be the victim of circumstance right so 
I'll tell you an example of when I was 
your client I was in my Master's of 
spiritual psychology course I was 
meeting a guy for coffee 
um I'm all dled up 
which sometimes I experience is annoying 
and 
um but you look gorgeous and that's okay 
and um he showed up sweaty on a bicycle 
not looking like his picture really like 
eore energy we you know I'm already like 
you know that moment where you're like 
does he know who I am can I leave now 
you know moment like no we're gonna do 
this doesn't buy me coffee doesn't ask 
if I'm thirsty nothing okay and I'm 
going 
through you know I can't wait to tell 
Bella and you know Lindsay about this 
situation right 
moment and I thought you know what I'm 
in this spiritual psychology course I'm 
going to use one of my skills and one of 
the skills is soul centered listening so 
it's really about releasing any 
judgments and really and helping the 
person 
feel heard safe understood and 
supported like okay so he's sitting 
there you know boring depressed boring 
depressed and he's talking about plant 
the plants in his house and there's a 
spark in his eye so I say you know you 
really light up when you talk about the 
your plants what about the plants 
excites you and he completely 
transformed into something some somebody 
completely different like he felt safe 
enough to tell me the plants meant this 
and it reminded him of his mother and I 
kept just reflecting back to him I see 
that it really helps you feel connected 
to your mom 
and it was a beautiful soul 
connection and I and he left there and 
he hugged me looking like he was hit by 
bus like didn't what didn't really 
understood understand what happened and 
I really was clear 
wow if I could show up for dating just 
making somebody feel safe enough that 
they could 
actually put their armor down and share 
from their heart you we would see people 
to we would connect with them completely 
differently even if it wasn't 
romantic and that's what I help people 
do whether you're applying for a job 
whether you're on a date whether you're 
dealing with your you know sister-in-law 
how can we PE make people feel safe and 
show up in 
non-judgment and I'm telling 
you your life your relationships will 
will transform dramatically and dating 
dating will transform dramatically and 
your relationship once you get into a 
relationship and your marriage all of it 
is about soul- centered 
listening so how do we flip into that 
Stacy yeah yeah how do we do that so one 
it's really a commitment and 
intention right that I to want to 
release the judgments of yourself and to 
release judgments of others and just 
show up and release anything that isn't 
love right wow that's so powerful and 
it's a choice I have Goosebumps yeah 
it's radical it's radical it's so simple 
and you're like oh I can do do this 
like I can release judgments of myself 
like okay so I feel like my Pooch is 
sticking out even with a pair of spanks 
on and my feet are sore from walking in 
these heels but you know what I am love 
and my goal is to release judgments of 
myself and the person in front of me and 
just to make them feel 
seen and 
connected that's it yeah was that it was 
that it and it's a practice and it's a 
practice and it's the work that I do 
with my clients of it's a muscle that 
you build you know when we want to look 
ripped for the summer you know the 
people that look my my trainer once told 
me that yeah the people that look good 
in in July we're working out in the rain 
in December people right 
totally so it's a practice and you know 
I'll give you an example I forgive 
myself for judging myself and for the 
misperception that you know my butt is 
big right the truth is I am beautiful 
whole and complete and deserving of all 
the love in the world right I forgive 
myself for the judgment and the 
misperception that this person you know 
is a loser or ugly or whatever you know 
the truth is this is also a beautiful 
soul in front of me wanting to create 
love right we just have to get some 
spaciousness and that's something that 
you practice and practice and practice 
you know I have a colleague that calls 
it cleaning it's just cleaning right 
cleaning and the more that you pra we 
can practice that and make that a daily 
part of your life it's not something 
that you have to just try on as a coat 
as you go out on a date and the person 
that we need to practice releasing G Jud 
Ms of is our self first yeah that's so 
hard it's the most and we can create it 
as easy like I'm it's so hard as a 
thought right so we just need to 
transmute the thought right I forgive 
myself for judging that loving myself is 
hard the truth 
is I create that is easy that's what the 
universe wants for me and at the essence 
we're all love and our you know mangel 
said how did he create the David I I 
chiseled away anything that wasn't the 
David and our work on this planet is 
just to room anything that isn't 
love if we show up in love not and and 
wanting to give love just we don't need 
to you know like I got me I love me this 
person doesn't get it that's okay but I 
promise if you show up on a date in 
non-judgment and love 
more times than not you're going to be 
met with a higher level than you know H 
the shoes uh the balding uh you didn't 
get me the drink you can we can 
transform what 
happens in the situation we are more 
powerful than we give ourselves credit 
for that's true you know I think it was 
Maryann Williamson who says there's two 
states in US based on the course and 
miracles right we are love or we are in 
fear yes and so it's like when you say I 
am love and I remember being at a talk 
where she was the keynote speaker at a 
women on Fire Conference before Co and 
she just said when you come across any 
human being from today forward I want 
you to think about this heart in your 
abdomen and you say the love in me 
greets the love in you yes and I was 
just like oh my God this is what I need 
this is what we all need especially in a 
climate like we live in today that's so 
polarizing right politically 
economically socially but here how can 
you affect this in your own personal 
life right and what you're saying is I 
forgive myself for judging myself for 
having a big butt right it's like I am 
love yeah and I'm great as I am because 
I am love yes and you don't go out and 
get love you create you can't go fill a 
cup of love it doesn't exist it comes 
from being it's who you're being how 
you're showing up and a little hack is 
whenever I'm just like in the moment out 
in the world it's I just go to inside 
myself love love love love love love 
love try it your whole body chemistry 
changes love love love love love love 
love I love that yeah because it's about 
our nervous resetting our nervous 
system and just saying Love Changes your 
your chemistry and your state right and 
it's like we got to stop going out 
dating and taking taking taking getting 
getting getting you're not going to 
create the energy 
of receiving and flow and love and 
support if we're not giving love and 
support 
100% know a couple of weeks ago I 
interviewed this amazing therapist for 
my podcast do Dr Abby medcafe and she 
said the number one relationship 
killer 
competition interesting and I was like 
but it's so brilliant it's 
scorekeeping it's scorekeeping I did 
this 
you haven't done this I did this three 
times I make this much money you don't 
make this much money and ultimately that 
competition comes from a place of 
judgment lack and 
scarcity fear judgment lack and judgment 
lack scarcity fear that I am not getting 
what I need right and what do we need 
what do we want we want to be a loved 
and supported 
unconditionally and we are not giving 
that and yet we like we want that so how 
do we think we're going to get it if 
we're not putting that out that's not 
how the universe works right now to that 
point let's say you're a badass 
successful woman you're making bank you 
you're making a great lifestyle and now 
you meet somebody and doesn't quite fly 
in your financial air 
how do you how do you reconcile this 
from a mindset standpoint if you can 
yeah well do you you know do you want to 
be in a relationship for 40 years with 
the bank account or do you want to be in 
a relationship with somebody who loves 
you supports you will go to Trader Joe's 
for you will you know so I think we 
don't we need to measure our love not on 
an abacus and not on a bank account and 
let me tell you something ladies in the 
50 plus somebody's finances will go up 
and down in a lifetime so you can be 
with somebody during their 30s who then 
you know gets fired or is an 
entrepreneur who loses it so it's a 
little 
shortsighted to be measuring it in 
dollars you want to be with somebody who 
makes you laugh somebody who's got your 
back somebody who you know you want to 
hang out with somebody who's going to 
weather the storms with you and you do a 
great exercise who are the best people 
in our lives and how do they make us 
feel amen 
amen right elevator people baby yeah 
yeah that's what it we 
gotta we and I get it because I I did 
that I used to do that too and you know 
my awareness in my 50s was is a heck of 
a lot different than who I was in my 
late 20s and 30 
ities and um you know who's going to be 
by your side when your parents are sick 
who's that guy who's that woman right 
it's not their bank account it's not and 
it no because it's the bank accounts are 
going to fluctuate people how's their 
character yeah absolutely and at the end 
of the day this is really making me 
think the way we're talking about this 
is what is a bank account account It 
ultimately relates back to 
safety right right that's it do you have 
can you fly in my airspace so I can be 
safe right and that can mean a five-star 
trip to Italy or Paris But ultimately is 
it really about that or is it about 
feeling safe with 
somebody yes and Cal relaxed and 
Powerful it's like who's and 
people I would offer that give that to 
serve that to people it doesn't take 
anything out of you like show up and ask 
how can I serve this person with love 
and support and non-judgment in these 40 
minutes and and it's not an interview 
and so stop like you know where'd you 
grow up and you 
know let's play a little bit you know 
find out you know and show up show up as 
the the person you love show up how you 
you know I want to show up in loving 
non-judgment and support of 
somebody and it's it's what can we 
give 
because that's what relationship is so 
let's completely be 
revolutionary in how we show up in 
dating I can guarantee you you're more 
you are so powerful you're going to find 
things out much more quickly when you 
show up from that place then what's he 
wearing where does he work where did his 
parents from do they have money what are 
the shoes you know he said the word this 
and I hate 
that you can change your life really 
fast when you're clear with how am I 
showing up me for me and he may not 
appreciate it but I showed up in 
alignment with how I want to show 
up right and if we go back to your date 
with plants guy yeah you showed up in 
loving non-judgment and support and you 
heard and you picked up on what he lit 
up about and you gave him a connection 
that day that I'm sure maybe for you you 
know when you're not in the right 
mindset it can feel like I'm not his 
therapist why should I have to do that 
but again if you stand back and say my 
goal is to make him feel love and 
supported during this date that doesn't 
mean that you have to go out with the 
person again that doesn't mean that this 
person is going to be your boyfriend or 
girlfriend or your husband tell us about 
that like you leave the plant date what 
happened I felt so great because I 
decided who do I want to be in the world 
I want to be the presence of love so I 
left there so proud of me and we had a 
Beautiful Exchange like there was a flow 
of energy right so no what did I want to 
see again absolutely not as a date I'm 
good we had a complete experience but it 
wasn't like I would have evaluated in 
the past like a complete time suck and 
waste of my time and instead because of 
my intention and who I declare myself to 
be the presence of love and loving 
service I left there going yay me I did 
that and I know that I made a positive 
in his world and even if he wasn't 
appreciative I'm like yay me anyways I 
did it I did it and now that's how I can 
show up in business that's how I can 
show up with you know my annoying 
whoever in my life it's it's really 
about loving who you're showing up as in 
the world and a love affair with myself 
so when I am dating or you know whatever 
you're doing trying to get clients or 
looking for a 
job um I love who I'm being I like who 
I'm being nobody gets to reject me I'm 
unrejected 
you can't reject me I am unre I am un 
rejectable you cannot reject me because 
I am so 
clear that I am in alignment with who I 
want to be and how I show up regardless 
of what's Happening externally 
how if somebody says no to you for a 
second or a third date or you don't get 
the job offer how do you tell yourself I 
am unrejected when you feel that let 
down feeling is there an exercise we can 
do to lift ourselves back up it's really 
simple so everything is um you know a 
prayer a wish whatever works for you I 
always ask I'm calling in the light for 
the highest good 
so everything is just throwing it out 
you're putting yourself in this white 
light for the highest 
good so like over a year ago I was in 
this big deal um and they put me through 
my okay my unevolved answer is the 
ringer but you know my 
paces and at the 11th hour after I had 
gone through everything they just you 
know said H it's not going to 
work and you know big money on the table 
I had a lot emotionally invested and I 
just immediately was clear this was not 
for my highest good and I let it 
go sometimes you know they you say you 
know God's rejection is your protection 
but it really helps if you're not alone 
in the forest with your machete because 
I did that for a long 
time it really gets tiring and I'm sure 
we can all relate to just being tired of 
you know whacka maching our way through 
the world yeah and hearing no yeah and I 
have created that there's a million 
yeses in every no like so there's a 
window if that door is closed 
and we don't know people after three 
dates we have an idealized version of 
who we've created them to be we don't 
know them you're unrejected it wasn't 
for you there's thousands of people on 
the planet don't put this avatar on 
someone you don't know them how can you 
be in love with them maybe you're you 
know so it's just like okay wasn't for 
the highest good let's go right because 
if I love me 
holy then if you say no to me that's 
okay because I love me and that doesn't 
mean that it's anything bad about me it 
just means you're not right for me 
and I'm going to tell you you don't have 
to nobody loves them themselves 100% 
okay you know and I've done done a lot 
of a lot and I don't love myself 100% 
all the 
time and I accept I've learned to accept 
myself and people I'm telling you you 
know I'm going to I'm going to offer a 
free gift for the Smart dating community 
on my website um stacyc cats.com I want 
every to have a releasing judgments 
compassionate self forgiveness practice 
it is the number one skill and practice 
that will change your entire 
world right so I spent so much time and 
money in 
self-improvement and I finally realized 
that no amount of self-improvement can 
make up for lack of self-acceptance 
I love that that means warts and all 
fatness heavy right you know getting the 
job having not enough money kids not 
listening full contact life and being 
like I I accept and I'm imperfect and I 
love and it's 
okay it's okay the chaos is okay it's 
just part of being a human being on the 
planet right right when we release our 
expectations of being perfect and people 
treating us 
perfectly makes things a hell of a lot 
easier yeah yeah yeah can you leave us 
with the gem of how we can be better 
quickly okay I would say listen for the 
gold so we can listen to this podcast we 
can listen to our dates we can listen to 
our partners because you're going to 
need this in 
Partnership I agree I don't agree he 
said that listen for the 
gold scan for what's 
right scan for what's right listen is 
there any gem is there a plants I see 
the plants like listen for the gold you 
know even when you're on a really 
terrible date sometimes you get a great 
restaurant recommendation that could be 
the gold listen for the gold listen for 
the gold yeah and if you find yourself 
looking at someone's shoes or the fact 
that he's sweating what do you tell 
yourself in that moment give us a a 
quick check yeah I forgive I forgive 
myself for the judgment and the 
misperception that this guy's shoes is 
everything that he is I forgive I 
wouldn't want that somebody be judging 
me only on my you want to be judged only 
on your shoes I don't think so right and 
if you walk in in your lubu tons you 
don't want to be judged 
yeah what else does this person have to 
offer somebody loves him on the planet 
what can you find one thing that's cool 
and nice and kind about this 
person just listen for the gold in 
someone the world will 
alter I love that Stacy I feel better 
for having been in your presence for 
this 40 minutes oh I love you Bella your 
smile just is so contagious who you are 
in the world helping people find love I 
can't think of a higher calling and I'm 
deeply grateful for to you personally 
for creating this community for your 
your media work and just spreading love 
in the world and thank you for having me 
it's been a real honor oh it's an 
absolute Delight thank you for being 
here and I'm sure we will have you back 
again um if people want to follow you on 
social media or get the gifts go to 
stacyc cats.com okay yeah sty K 
az.com and I would love to support you 
to just live a more empowered relaxed in 
life and help you find love within 
yourself and out there in the world oh 
well you are love and thank you for 
being here and smart daters I hope that 
you feel like Stacy has given you some 
tips to take the steering wheel back of 
your own mind and heart to know that 
your thoughts are just your thoughts 
they're not true and you can come back 
to a place of love and forgiveness for 
yourself and for everybody that you come 
across and wow what a freaking awesome 
way to show up in the world so thank you 
for making us all better smart daters I 
hope you're feeling better and uh if 
you're not it's time to do or maybe you 
are maybe you are feeling better reach 
out to us do a one-hour consultation 
with me I promise it'll rock your world 
you need you deserve love you are worthy 
of love you are love we are love we are 
love and with that we'll see you at the 
next episode 
