we have inside of us something called an 
autonomic nervous system is responsible 
for our thoughts our feelings our 
behaviors the sensations we have the way 
we perceive ourselves others in the 
world around us it is literally 
responsible for our entire experience 
and we learn about outer space and yet 
no one teaches us about this system 
within us 
that if we don't have control over it is 
like going on autopilot and so much of 
the time we don't know how to change our 
experience because we don't know about 
the system that's running our experience 
so I teach people about this system 
within us and then I teach them how to 
gain control over it and in the process 
we bring healing to the past and change 
our relationships our internal 
experience on and our life as a whole 
wow it sounds like magic truly I mean 
it's Neuroscience but it's also the most 
magical extraordinary thing that I've 
personally ever experienced and walked 
thousands of people through two 
