how to communicate with men so that we 
feel heard and understood as women and 
how to balance our lives and come back 
to 
alignment so that we can give and 
receive love today's guest is sandy 
weiner she's the founder of last first 
date she's a dating coach she's a 
relationship coach what do you think are 
some of the biggest mistakes that we 
make coming out of the gate as women men 
at this stage in life and we're talking 
about as they as they get older and 
they're less ego driven they don't want 
to just do all the chasing and they 
don't want women to be really passive i 
advocate for women to make first moves 
in online dating 
not to necessarily ask men out unless 
that's their jam 
let men know they want to get off 
messaging and get on a call and meet 
because if we don't assert what we want 
we will not get what we want this isn't 
about chasing right dating is not a game 
so show that you would be a good partner 
