[Music] 
this idea of when will it get better 
when will my life be better when will I 
be better and it's neglecting the 
present it's avoiding the present it's 
resisting the present and that's a 
barrier to personal growth it's a 
barrier to growth in general it's a 
barrier to being a functional and 
healthy human being that feels things 
but collectively culturally we hate pain 
we hate it and so people when is it 
going to end what can I do to make it 
better and of course you know who wants 
to feel pain but the reality is 
sometimes especially during an ending 
it's going to be really painful it's 
going to feel like open heart surgery 
and the goal is to work through that 
pain because it's working through that 
pain that you grow when you try to work 
around it and you resist it it persists 
it persists you cling to things to try 
to make it go away is just another way 
of denying what's real which is the 
relationship's over it's excruciating 
it's painful and it's going to take time 
to heal right and you will heal 
