so I am bringing you this week's Love 
Story which is a former client my good 
friend Nikki who is planning her wedding 
Nikki thank you for joining us thanks 
for having me so you engaged us in 2019 
pre-coven and so you fly to Chicago and 
you start this process tell us a little 
bit about what that started for you 
professionally I work in business you 
know at some point in the LA job 
actually I was very much building a team 
used to like you know reviewing the 
resume and trying to figure out okay 
should we bring this person in for an 
interview a second interview you know 
it's just like I need to actually get to 
know people not profiles one of the 
first things just like thinking about 
the funnel and thinking about you know 
how many interactions like real 
interactions I was having 
um that was a big one of the big shifts 
for me among a couple others it's 
nothing so quick to throw people back to 
the pond if we're not feeling that 
Elusive and I put this in air quotes it 
right away 
