you have asked and we are delivering 
ladies this is for you or maybe men you 
know you might want to perfect your 
summer face tube i brought on a 
celebrity in her own right my right hand 
makeup artist anissa sabovic who is 
going to tell us how we can perfect our 
summer face tell us about our canvas our 
face our skin 
what do we need to know for this summer 
and while the weather is warm every 
couple weeks your skin renews itself so 
what happens is we're getting these dead 
skin layers on top of dead skin new skin 
growing on top of old skin slough that 
away so you're getting like the good 
skin we're making our way towards like 
summer face summer complexion at some 
point in your regimen incorporate an spf 
if you're going to be out in the sun and 
you know you're going to be out there 
for a prolonged period of time let's 
kick it up to like 50. if you're just 
taking a walk or going out with your dog 
or running out to run errands the 
minimum is 15. 
