[Music] 
his name is larry kaufman and he's on 
here 
to talk about 
just his whole ethos his way of being 
his way of showing up in the world and 
he wrote a book about how he is and what 
he does that's made him so successful 
and authentic and it's called the ncg 
factor so how can we be better 
connectors to become a better connector 
you have to become a better listener and 
a lot of people don't like to ask 
questions they like to as i put in my 
book if you remember reading this people 
like to show up and throw up 
this happens in business and it happens 
in our personal relationships too it 
happens in dating 
women all the time their number one 
complaint about men is he didn't ask me 
one question about myself if you've 
heard your own voice for more than five 
minutes it's time to give the other 
person a turn 
