[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart daters welcome back to the podcast 
this week I think it's time for you 
to get to your happy place and so I 
didn't have to dig deep to find my 
favorite happiness expert my friend 
Stephanie who is the happiness coach 
Stephanie L Stephanie LeFevre she's 
amazing we met I don't know a decade ago 
and she is the embodiment of happiness 
and she's going to share her gems with 
us today dear listener about how we can 
get to our happiest happy place starting 
today are you ready let's welcome Steph 
Stephanie welcome thank you thank you 
happiness and dating not usually very 
synonymous together right but but let's 
get people there for sure oh my gosh 
well you know tell us how did you get 
into the happiness business 
oh that's funny question because nobody 
becomes a happiness coach by having like 
a perfectly happy journey in the in life 
right absolutely you had to learn how to 
find your happiness 
yeah I mean 
it's interesting I mean I was growing up 
in Chicago one of five kids 
um not in a happy childhood my parents 
fought a lot my dad drank a lot 
um my dad left my mom for another woman 
when I was young 
and that shattered us you know wow 
um 
it was it was hard and then my sister 
died in a drunk driving accident even 
hard 
so when you're young and you experience 
that type of trauma and tragedy in your 
life 
you really don't have a lot of Hope for 
your future right I mean I thought I'm 
broken 
um I'm I'm worthless like nothing good 
is ever gonna last in my life so yeah it 
was a long road up that happiness 
mountain right 
um I mean I didn't even know what 
happiness looked like I didn't know we 
were you know this is in the 70s and 80s 
there's not a lot of like grief 
counseling and there's nothing we just 
like went throw some dirty right with 
the an amazing Community supporting us 
but 
and my wonderful mom doing everything 
she could to get it through it but you 
know I look back now and I think God 
that's a lot and all of us had to find 
our way out of grief and tragedy and 
into a level of normalcy and up to a 
level of joy and happiness it's not a 
fast climb right it's a it's a steep and 
a hard climb up there but luckily in in 
college I started getting really into 
personal development it's what saved my 
life you know reading everything from 
Wayne Dyer and Deepak Chopra and Pema 
showdron and Marion Williamson her book 
of Return To Love and Oprah thank God 
for Oprah right I got to watch every 
Oprah and um all my children episode 
like the two of those things in my life 
and thank God I just my mind started 
getting open to forgiveness to Joy to 
ways to use my inner world to create in 
my outer world because my inner world at 
one point was creating a lot of sadness 
and my my plan was just to be like my 
dad and drink and throw my life away 
right because I didn't see anything 
other than that 
um so through diving deep into my 
personal growth and making it like a 
full-time job I started to see that my 
inner world can change that I'm in 
control of it and that I can start 
creating that in my outer world and now 
for the last 30 years this is the the 
journey I've been on right to constant 
Improvement to constantly reshaping and 
consciously creating a life that I love 
and 
in my relationship creating a 
relationship that I'm wildly excited 
about and that I'm really happy with 
creating the health and fitness that I 
desire creating a career that I'm really 
crazy about creating Financial Freedom 
creating everything from the inside out 
has always been my journey and what I 
now love to teach and share 
oh my gosh well let's imbibe all of the 
gems that you have I mean you know I'm 
sure you can imagine what it's like to 
be 20 30 40 50 60 70 and single maybe 
career single you know maybe coming out 
of divorce maybe you've lost the love of 
your life or maybe you're in a 
relationship and you just want to boost 
your happiness or your joy tell us you 
have something called a formula to 
create a new reality and you're talking 
about changing your world on your inside 
so let's start with that what is our 
first step 
so the formula to create a new reality 
and I have a lot of my clients are 
struggling with 
um self-worth self-doubt with 
um not having what they want in life at 
its Basics right so if it's not having a 
relationship that what they want a lot 
of my clients are divorced and single 
um or if it's another area of their life 
what I notice most women are doing 
is that we put our actions first right 
like I was doing this a long time ago 
before 
um I got married I wanted to lose weight 
and so I was like trying all these 
different diets I was like the Atkins 
diet back then and I was doing the 
Atkins diet and I was like doing these 
VO2 Maxes and I was trying these 
different things and I was never losing 
weight well that's before I knew about 
the formula to create a new reality that 
I developed by using all this work 
and that formula doesn't start with 
action it starts with our state 
it starts with how we feel every day 
so the formula is S Plus S Plus f equals 
R because that's simple and you can 
remember it that way wait S Plus S Plus 
s like Stephanie Stephanie Stephanie 
equals Richard yes so yeah exactly so S 
Plus S Plus s equals R so the first f is 
your state how you feel is the most 
important thing 
and we'll talk a little more about that 
but the second s is your story how you 
think 
what your thoughts are what your mindset 
is that's what you're attracting in 
so the third s is your strategy that's 
the action because you can't not take 
action along the road of the dreams that 
you want to create that equals your 
reality 
so if you have a reality that you don't 
like in any way you can't keep trying to 
just change the action you've got to 
start with your state you have to start 
with how you feel every day so what does 
that look like I mean how we wake up in 
the morning and how we feel really 
really matters right if my reality isn't 
what I want it to be I'm going to look 
at how I feel every morning okay my 
morning routine dialed in to be 
something that brings me joy we don't 
have to follow these morning routines 
that like all these men dictate are the 
best thing to do you know 5am Club and 
wake up and do 20 minutes of this and 
20. we should do things that bring us 
joy 
right the best learning routine is doing 
stuff that you love right and taking 
some time for yourself so that you do 
things that you love so that you feel 
good right so I would include in your 
morning 
going big I call it Big begin in 
gratitude 
because gratitude is an energy it's a 
state gratitude is a massive State 
shifter right so you can't be in 
like distress and upset and gratitude at 
the same time you can't stay possible 
right so what am I grateful for first 
thing in the morning before I even open 
my eyes I think about all the things I'm 
grateful for right that primes me like 
I'm more ready for the day right 
anything that you do in the morning if 
you you know do something healthy for 
yourself and and have a green juice or 
or lemon water or you know your coffee 
and a little bit of a little meditation 
um if you're setting intentions if 
you're doing some journaling if you're 
picturing your day unfolding in a 
positive way staying off of your phone 
off of the news you know off of reacting 
to everyone else's emails and texts and 
whatever and you're doing something for 
yourself you're filling yourself up well 
you're going to be better ready to 
handle the challenges that come your way 
right you're approaching things a dating 
website or a you know anything that 
you're doing with a different energy 
when you feel good first so the first s 
is your state for that reason 
the second is your story it's your 
mindset 
we place orders from the universe with 
our thoughts right our thoughts place 
the order and our feelings attractive 
back in so our state say that again our 
thoughts our thoughts place an energetic 
order and our feelings attracted back in 
right so our thoughts and our feelings 
have to be aligned with what we want 
and if our thoughts are going well this 
is never going to work and this is a 
pain in the ass well that's placing a 
confusing order right oh I really want 
to be with the man of my dreams but oh 
God these dating sites they just suck I 
just can't get it I I can't do this oh 
wait you just talked about every one of 
my clients right there that thought okay 
let's go with that let's create hey I 
wake up in the morning and I'm like oh I 
really want the lid to my pot the man's 
my dreams I hate dating dating sucks I 
hate these apps there's no good men out 
there right well let's talk about the 
things that we have to stop doing in 
order to stop creating confusing orders 
okay because those are creating 
confusing orders to the universe and 
fuzzy targets don't get hit right if 
every time we're thinking thoughts a lot 
of them are not aligned with what we 
want we have to change those thoughts 
first so number one 
and No One's Gonna want to hear this but 
we have to stop complaining 
because complaints create an order they 
place an order to the universe for more 
of what you don't want 
and I know it sounds harsh to think I 
would need to stop complaining but we 
all complain We complain We complain 
about the heat We complain about the day 
we complain about that you know we 
complain whether we are not consciously 
complaining about We complain about 
dating apps right I'm I'm not even 
single and I complain about my friend 
who's undating it I go oh God the guys 
that I found on there so we need to stop 
doing that because all it is is 
perpetuating more of what we don't want 
and you know the the more that you focus 
on something the more you're going to 
see it so if you complain about aiding 
apps all you're going to see are bad 
experiences on dating apps amen amen 
sister so we need to stop complaining 
um one tool that I use Bella to stop 
complaining when I teach all of my 
clients what we do first thing in any of 
my programs is we we're a complaint free 
bracelet 
so I have them put on a bracelet that 
they love and one one on their right 
wrist and see if they can go an entire 
day without a complaint and if you 
complain you move it over to your left 
wrist it's all about awareness right 
because if we never talk about 
complaining and have awareness about 
complaining we'll go oh I'm not really a 
complainer and then we're like oh my God 
my friend the other day we just go right 
into it so the awareness around 
retraining our brain not to complain 
needs a physical thing so you wear the 
bracelet you put it over to your left 
wrist when you make a complaint so that 
you're retraining this dog in your brain 
right and the next morning you start 
with it on the on the right wrist again 
and you see if you can go a day two days 
three days I love that it's a really 
powerful practice so 
put that in your toolbox and try a 
complaint free bracelet so we have to 
stop complaining the next thing we have 
to do is we have to stop focusing on 
lack we have to stop Evan Bella focusing 
on reality that's around us like I don't 
care if the reality is that I keep 
meeting guys that aren't available I 
can't focus on that unless I want more 
of it 
right so we have to stop focusing on 
reality and only focus on our desire 
as if a 
psychic came down and said oh he's 
coming he's on his way that's me it's 
gonna happen and you you're like he's 
coming he's on his way it's happening so 
you cancel all the thoughts of lack you 
go I don't care if there's only one of 
me and not enough of that no you cancel 
all those thoughts like when I was 
um when I was pregnant 
with my son and I was a older mom 38 and 
40 when I had my kids and people would 
tell me what they would want to tell me 
all the miserable stories of Labor and 
Delivery I would go no I heard none of 
it I only focused on natural easy 
childbirth and that's what I had natural 
relatively pain-free incredible 
incredibly powerful labor and delivery 
wow I've never let the reality of how 
old I was or what other people would 
have set into my existence I wouldn't 
so I know it sounds impossible but it's 
not impossible you have to stop focusing 
on lack even if that is your reality you 
have to stop focusing on the reality of 
what you don't want because that's 
placing a confusing order 
you have to stop looking for and seeing 
what you don't want and I'm sure you go 
through dating apps and you go oh God 
that's awful oh he's awful oh he's awful 
he's awful no you've got to stop 
focusing on what you don't want and 
focus on what you do want so what I do 
want is a guy who's available what I do 
want is a guy with those eyes that's 
nice oh I do want a guy that's that tall 
oh I do want a guy that lives there okay 
oh I do want I do want I do want you 
have to focus on what you do want not 
what you don't so meaning if you're 
swiping on the app stuff I love what 
you're saying that every person that 
comes across your screen you have to 
find something in that person where you 
might go oh this is not a person for me 
you have to find something that you do 
like about that person did I get that 
right because I kind of love that be 
more empowering 100 yeah I would like 
that I would like that and if not send 
them love and bless them oh you know 
he's really cute he's he's a perfect fit 
for someone oh he's got really nice eyes 
right why not come from love instead of 
fear right and and send that love and 
find the do want there is something that 
you want right in every person on the 
app I'm gonna tell my client says tell 
me something about every one of these 
people yeah that's good that yep yeah 
yeah that is a redeeming quality that 
someone would want that is a positive 
we can't expect to get positives while 
focusing only on negatives 
and yet that's all we do is like 
negative negative negative negative I 
don't blame them I get it I've seen the 
apps I've been there but with a 
different energy 
when your state is in the right place 
and you're really careful about the 
orders you're placing you can do it 
differently 
you can have a different experience 
I love that so a couple other things 
that plays confusing orders so we've got 
complaining focusing on lack 
um focusing on what you don't want 
instead of do what 
the next thing is conflicting beliefs 
you know when we're thinking 
I don't believe it's gonna happen for me 
that places a confusing order 
right that's self-doubt 
like how can I expect to 
win the prize or you know do something 
amazing in my life if I don't believe in 
myself 
belief is a huge piece we we create from 
our thoughts from our words from our 
feelings and from our beliefs 
and so we have to believe that it can 
happen for us 
so I teach my clients we talk about 
belief a lot because we have to build 
our belief 
to the level that we can attract in what 
we believe like you and I if we didn't 
believe that we could ever start our own 
business we would have never done it 
we were right around disbelieving and 
never taking action right 
belief can lead to action and action can 
lead to belief but we have to believe it 
so what can we do to build our belief in 
ourselves for me I believe in myself 
when I'm feeling my most confident 
and I'm feeling my most confident when I 
am fueling my health and fitness 
when I'm doing what I say I'm gonna do 
you know keeping my word with myself 
when I'm challenging myself right like 
when I am on that treadmill and I'm 
doing a hard ass workout I got up in the 
morning I I had my morning ritual I'm 
doing all these things to fuel my my 
state and my story and I'm on that 
treadmill and I'm working hard you can't 
tell me that that there's something I 
can't do I'm like I can I will watch me 
get out the way I got this right because 
I'm in that state of belief because I've 
showed up for myself and I'm doing 
things that I really feel good about and 
feel confident about 
like I don't believe in myself when I 
don't have confidence so what do you do 
to build confidence right 
that's underlying for your belief 
and I think it's our work that's our 
work is this the belief work 
and how do you how do you define what 
your beliefs might be that are holding 
you back 
great question I mean for me it's there 
are some roots of limiting beliefs you 
know there's a lot of branches of 
beliefs like the beliefs that 
there's no good guys out there 
um I'm too old I'm never gonna meet 
anyone those are all the branches of the 
tree right then there are Roots there 
are a few roots of limiting beliefs that 
everyone has 
one of them is I'm not enough 
one is I'm not worthy of this 
and one is I am unlovable 
so if we work on we can work on all the 
branches of the trees because guess what 
I'm too old well there's a million 
stories about people older than me who 
have found love you know there's not 
enough guys out there well turn to your 
neighbor because she met someone right 
so all of those we can prove as untrue 
that like those are untrue there is 
actually a lot of guys out there there 
I'm not too old there is someone that 
totally would suit me you know 
um they are there are men that are 
available 
so look at the turnaround for the that 
it's not true and that there's an 
equally as true belief out there that's 
how you you know turn a belief around to 
a powerful positive belief and then 
there's those root beliefs like I'm not 
enough well there's nothing outside of 
us that can tell us that we are enough 
there's nothing outside of us that can 
tell us we're worthy or tell us that we 
are lovable we have to do the inner work 
to find that 
I have to decide so here's one of the 
last things that I think that gets in 
the way is that we haven't decided 
we have to decide I am lovable I am 
worthy I am enough and it's my time 
period I am doing this because I decided 
and for no other reason you've probably 
seen this Bella when someone makes a 
decision and they go I am now meeting 
this person I am falling in love and 
this is it then that's when it happens 
right 
totally 100 percent and they make a 
decision and then their belief Rises up 
to that decision 
you know so true and remember guys 
beliefs 
we hold them to be true beliefs her 
opinions yeah they're not facts it's not 
a fact that's not true you can find 
evidence against every one of these 
beliefs I'm not enough 
really right do you think I don't suffer 
from this I do I'm sure you do too right 
I'll think oh I haven't done enough of 
this I haven't created enough you know 
new workshops in 2023 because I've been 
so busy I haven't done enough I'm not 
enough and you think about it and so 
many of those branches come back to that 
and you know what that is if I asked 
five other people do you believe that 
I'm not enough do you believe and people 
would probably be like 
what are you talking about just like I 
would if you said to me Bella I don't 
believe I've done enough I'd be like 
what are you talking about you've 
created this Kick-Ass life These are 
right just imposters little Evil Minions 
that live in your brain yeah 
yeah they're total Gremlins and they're 
not true and so we can turn it around 
and found the more powerful positive 
thought I am enough 
um I am willing to see myself as enough 
is a great stepping stone I'm willing to 
see my worth I'm willing to see that I'm 
lovable I'm willing to see is a great 
on-ramp to the enoughness and the 
lovable and the worthiness and 
it is equally as true and more powerful 
and positive and what you can do is say 
okay let me give three examples of how 
I'm enough 
I'm enough for 
blank you know I'm enough for my job and 
I show up for everybody there I'm enough 
for my sister I'm the greatest sister 
that's ever been I'm enough for my mom I 
take care of her in her older age like 
where are you actually enough because 
you're proving it to yourself right so 
if I think I'm unlovable where am I 
actually lovable let me prove to myself 
how lovable I am that's how you start 
turning around those limiting beliefs 
and there's there's a lot we do a lot of 
limiting belief work on my courses we 
it's a constant 
process right because I can go oh okay 
I'm enough now but then I can have 
another sneaky belief about 
my body or about my parenting or about 
the next level that I can take my 
business so limiting belief work is 
always the inner work that we're doing 
right finding raising up our beliefs to 
the level 
of what we want to create in our life 
and so I love so many things that you've 
said if you're not where you are where 
you want to be somehow your thoughts are 
creating confusing orders to the 
universe because those thoughts create 
feelings when you don't have the right 
feelings you're not going to bring in 
the right energy or attract the right 
things am I saying that right a hundred 
percent yep they don't have the right 
feelings you're not aligned with your 
desire 
your Fields align you with your desire 
and Attract it back in it's all a 
vibration so if you're not having the 
right thoughts in person right orders 
and you're not having the right feelings 
and you're wondering why you're not 
getting what you want you're not aligned 
with your desire oh that's just sad and 
Powerful start over with your state and 
your story and then your strategy and 
guess what when your state is aligned 
and you're feeling good and your story 
is aligned and your thoughts are good 
right they're placing good orders then 
the strategy that you take works 
so even if a strategy that you've taken 
before that didn't work it will now work 
when you're aligned right so oh I don't 
want to go back on the dating apps well 
when your state is in the right place 
and your story is in the right place go 
on the dating apps because it's aligned 
and it's in the right vibration and it 
will attract in what you want before you 
were placing confusing orders and taking 
action that wasn't aligned so of course 
it didn't work 
right no that makes perfect sense and 
you guys if you didn't get this gem I'm 
going to repeat it again the roots of 
all limiting beliefs I'm not enough I'm 
not worthy of this and I'm lovable and 
holy smokes we have to decide nobody can 
decide for you there is no mountain 
you're going to climb nobody that's 
going to come and tap you on the head 
and say you know what Bella you've 
arrived I have to decide right I am 
these things and that's when it will 
happen guys just because you find the 
lid to your pot still doesn't solve that 
I'm not lovable wound inside of you 
until you say to yourself and you decide 
hell I don't care what my family of 
origin story is I don't care how many 
bad relationships I've been in I am 
lovable that's your first step is to 
believe that because nobody else can 
make you believe that not even per 
friggin charming and look at the energy 
and the power in that right even you 
saying it like we're both smiling and 
we're both like yes like people can hear 
and feel the confidence in that 
yeah that's really powerful you guys 
have the steering wheels to this I mean 
how if you haven't crashed your car yet 
while driving I don't know if you're 
truly absorbing this because the key to 
the kingdom y'all is in your hands yes 
look at your hands the key's there do 
you see it what color is your key what 
shape is your key because it's there 
100 percent 
oh my gosh so what what have we missed 
have I missed anything 
well we can talk about my favorite thing 
in the world to talk about is 
manifesting and although everything that 
we've been talking about is in essence 
manifesting 
I have four steps to advance manifesting 
that I guarantee you your dear listeners 
have never heard oh girl I want to hear 
it 
look at me taking notes here while she's 
talking okay me Chris is gonna rock your 
world and we'll have to check back after 
you hear this and apply it into your 
life Bella oh so yes I've been teaching 
manifesting literally for 30 years 
because the minute I heard it I started 
applying it into my life and started 
teaching it to people and you know the 
basics of manifesting is ask believe 
receive right so that's what we were 
talking about like ask for what you want 
get clear on it believe it and then 
receive it in well people know that 
that's the basics of manifesting and it 
still eludes us because it's not as 
concrete as we'd like it to be so in my 
exploration I found these four discover 
these four steps like looking back and 
going okay how did I manifest that how 
did I manifest that I was like this is 
what I did this is what I did this is 
what I did in this and here they are 
so it's different than ask believe 
received step one how I manifest 
anything is to focus on the end result 
of how I want to feel 
so if I am trying to manifest a 
relationship 
I want to look at how that feels to be 
in love 
right how does it feel am I happy am I 
peaceful am I fulfilled am I feeling 
connected am I feeling Bliss Joy what am 
I feeling Comfort relief safety I don't 
know why I want to feel safety security 
um you know so how do I want to feel 
what is that feeling it doesn't have to 
be one thing it's all of it combined the 
end result of how I want to feel because 
I might just not want to feel 
um excited that might not be the end 
result right the end result means the 
bigger overarching feeling 
how do I want to feel what's the end 
result of how I want to feel that's step 
one 
step two 
is ask the universe 
for guidance how to get there 
so you have to ask the ask is not for 
the thing the ask is for you to be shown 
the way 
so then you go okay this is what I want 
this is how I want to feel show me 
show me 
let the path become revealed and now you 
got to stay open to all the ways that 
the Universe shows you right to all the 
guidance to all the Whispers to all the 
god Winks whatever you want to call them 
and step three is you take inspired 
action on the universe's nudges 
so when someone says you should get on 
that new dating app you're like okay 
that's the third time I've heard that I 
have to take action don't take action on 
the third time take action on the first 
time when someone goes hey I've got 
someone to set you up with 
okay 
that's guidance right hey you should do 
this hey you should do that hey someone 
popped into my DMs okay I'm gonna follow 
this guidance and look at everything as 
guidance because there's no bad guidance 
right it's like it either is or it isn't 
and everything is a baby step towards 
the thing the end result of how you want 
to feel 
so focus on the end result of how you 
want to feel ask the universe for 
guidance 
take inspiration inspired action right 
away when you get it 
and step four is 
be okay no matter what 
find Joy along your journey be grateful 
in the now 
that's the piece that most people are 
missing when it comes to manifesting 
because they miss the fourth step of 
Detachment of being happy and being 
grateful right here right now with all 
that you already have yeah oh you 
already have loved we already have 
companionship we already have connection 
right we already have safety but we're 
thinking we're without it 
I can still want more of it and I can 
ask her how to get there and I can take 
inspired action but sitting in the 
beingness of it 
is what really attracts it in and we 
find it a lot faster when we detach 
through being okay no matter what and 
being in the present and being joyful 
and being grateful 
that's what we're after anyway so 
finding it now 
is the key to more of it 
um I love that and I think you're right 
I think people get stuck with 
manifesting well if I think it it's 
supposed to fall into my lap no two key 
things you have to take action 
um 
you have to take the actions right and 
then and then be okay with where you are 
and look at it as a journey so often you 
know I think about the big things I've 
done in my life right you think that you 
arrive at that thing and suddenly 
there's a ticker tape parade or the ball 
drop and you're like okay I just hit 
that goal whatever that is I ran the 
race I hit the sales Mark I did this 
show and then you're like 
there's no parade there's no Orchestra 
there's no dancing girls and when you 
think about it it wasn't that moment but 
it was all the little moments that led 
up to it that you remember in your mind 
it was the journey yeah exactly 
and we think about when we're dating 
when we're younger that's exactly what 
we're doing we're like oh maybe it's 
that guy oh okay that's fun oh I liked 
him oh he didn't like me back okay no 
big deal all right oh there's this other 
guy over here okay he's kind of fun this 
is a good that's what we're doing we're 
okay no matter what because we're like 
oh we're young the pressure's off it's 
you know this is part of it so why not 
apply that no matter what age we are the 
being okay no matter what is part of the 
energy that allows it and attracts it in 
it's the art of allowing 
it's how we get it 
yeah I think so I think you know therapy 
is great but I think what you're doing 
is so forward-looking right it's like 
yeah you know what there's some swampy 
stuff we all have the swampy stuff you 
have yours I have mine but let's move 
forward into what we do once let's 
forgive the past and move it to the 
Future 
absolutely keep beating the drum of the 
past if you want more of the past right 
beat the drum of the future if you want 
the future be in the present moment of 
what you want and of the already having 
of it 
that's what really attracts it in 
I love that Steph you're a wealth of 
knowledge I feel happier just by having 
done this podcast me too it was so fun 
I'm gonna put on a bracelet and see if I 
can have a complaint free day can I be 
accountable for you yes please do you 
have to report to me let me know how it 
goes wow that's gonna be that's gonna be 
I have to I can see myself going well 
what exactly is a complaint if I'm just 
venting is that a complaint hey hey if 
you're thinking about it you're placing 
orders for it so you determine what's a 
complaint and if your vents are going to 
place an order that you don't want then 
we need to turn that around right so my 
office that doesn't have air 
conditioning right now is actually a 
very cool lovely Zone and yeah it feels 
so good in here and so I'm placing 
orders to have you're flushing your 
system it's good to release and to sweat 
and to be hot and you know it's great to 
feel the contrast 
see all the positives exactly oh my gosh 
well Steph thank you so much for being 
here where can we can we follow you on 
Instagram can we check out your site if 
we want more happy tools yeah coach with 
Steph on Instagram and that's my website 
and it's coach with Steph is with two f 
s t f f and yeah follow me on Instagram 
come find me uh have a happy habit 
checklist that's a great tool to help 
your state in the morning 
um it has 10 happy habits that you can 
look at and go oh I want to apply these 
few that works for me I'm already doing 
that one take a look at the happy habits 
checklists on my website or on the bio 
in my Instagram and I'd love to connect 
with you guys so follow me there oh I'm 
so excited thank you so much for your 
wisdom I really appreciate you this was 
great at this thank you for having me it 
was awesome 
smart daters as always if this has 
inspired you to get to your happy dating 
place and you're stuck and you're 
feeling like you're in the swamp of 
dating reach out for help for goodness 
sakes we're here 
smartdatingacademy.com we are the 
personal trainers to your love lives we 
will get you to that happy place because 
we make dating a three-letter word f-u-n 
fun and who doesn't need some fun in 
their lives so go to 
smartdatingacademy.com follow us on 
Instagram at smartdating Academy get on 
our waitlist for our VIP one-on-one 
coaching and I guarantee it's the best 
decision you'll ever make because as 
Steph said you are worthy of this you 
are enough and for God's sakes you are 
lovable AF with that I will see you next 
week 
