[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart daters welcome back I as always 
you know me I'm jumping out of my skin 
excited about this episode why because 
this is the first time I've got two 
people 
um with me it's like the Menage Ã  trois 
of podcasts so right I know right I hope 
you didn't crash while you were 
listening to that and so I have today is 
going to be a love story of this 
beautiful stunning and more more 
importantly beautiful on the inside 
client named Mindy and I've also brought 
Lindsay art Smart dating our own heart 
and soul back onto the podcast to talk 
to you and Mindy about what it was like 
to be Mindy's personal trainer for love 
through this process spoiler alert Mindy 
was just like you and now Mindy's in 
love so she's gonna share every little 
nugget that helped her along the way 
because ultimately what we want is to 
put more love into the world and more 
importantly put love and a lid to your 
pot in your world so Mindy Lindsay 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast 
thank you for having me I'm so excited 
I am so excited to be back and I'm so 
excited to see Mindy again because it's 
so fun when we get a chance to talk on 
the phone and coach on a regular basis 
to see your lovely face again 
you guys are very lucky Mindy is highly 
coachable and truly delightful in every 
way 
thank you Lindsay thank you I've really 
enjoyed this whole process with both of 
you even starting with Bella and then 
the whole process with Lindsay has just 
been inspiring 
um and I've gained two great friends in 
this whole process as well 
oh my gosh podcast over just kidding so 
that's the best part of our job 
seriously we just we just you get so 
invested with the people that you work 
with and you care so much and it really 
turns into just a really beautiful 
relationship and so I'm really a 
beautiful relationship that we can help 
with and a beautiful friendship yes 
absolutely 
so why don't we do this Mindy kind of 
set the stage for us tell us a little 
bit you know I'm just gonna say 
tell us about you tell us about you kind 
of as a teenager what it was like at 
home you know 
dating all of the things and then you 
know your husband so set the stage 
so growing up I my parents are actually 
still married 54 years oh yay Mom and 
Dad yeah I have an older sister and 
brother so we 
um we had a very loving relationship but 
at the same time I always say to people 
we love hard and we fight hard 
um a strong very Catholic Family that 
um we were very involved with activities 
and our parents were always there 
um and just seeing my Mom and Dad how 
they were towards each other very 
supportive and loving but then there was 
times where there was some tough times 
that I got to witness growing up 
um and seeing how they interacted 
through those hardships 
kind of established possibly my 
long-term relationships of how I I deal 
with 
um relationships with men or even 
friendships or even my family 
um so I was about 16 years old and my 
brother was actually looking for a 
roommate because he was older than me 
and he found this friend and they got 
along and he was actually part of our 
family this this guy for the next couple 
of years and I never thought in a 
million years I would actually end up 
dating him because he was six years 
older than me he did not ask me out 
until I was 19 years old 
and so through high school I really 
never dated I mean I did here and there 
but I really did not have that long-term 
relationship with anybody and 
understanding but then I looked at my 
parents who have been together since 
they were 16 and 17 of like that's what 
I want I want to have a long-term 
relationship for the rest of my life 
so 
um 
my ex-husband Jason and I started dating 
and how he 
pursued me was every single date that we 
went on he brought me a gift which I was 
like wow why am I getting a gift every 
single time or and I was I felt like a 
little naive looking back because I did 
not know what I was doing other than I'm 
going on a date with this older man 
that's well established with his career 
he has his own home 
um just doing things right in my mindset 
of that's what I should be with and my 
family accepted him because he had been 
in my family for so long so they knew 
him so I was comfortable and I was going 
through college and we went through me 
going through college him going through 
career changes and then we ended up 
getting married and I thought this is 
the love of my life you know and with 
him things were just a little bit 
different he came from my family that 
they never fought everything was pushed 
under the rug and then my family was a 
little bit different we fought we fought 
hard work but we loved hard and we would 
come back and everything would be fine 
um so establishing that relationship was 
a little bit different because we had to 
come to terms with how are we going to 
raise our kids and so raising our kids 
we have two beautiful children I have a 
17 year old son 18 year old daughter 
back to back and we are great parents it 
just through that time I was also 
teaching and him having his career and I 
felt like I had the Best of Both Worlds 
at that time in my life 
when the kids were growing up when the 
kids were growing up I was able to take 
care of my babies at home during the day 
each at night and I was loving that 
aspect 
um there was still fighting with my 
family there was all turmoil as far as 
you know how you're doing this and 
whatnot and I thought I had this 
supportive person but really I had this 
man that just 
kept wanting more out of life and never 
was just happy with what his career path 
was and I just kind of kept going with 
the flow I had never lived on my own I 
had never had a roommate this was the 
only person in my life yeah that I had 
lived with and been with 
um all you knew and I just that's all I 
knew I knew from going from my parents 
house to his house 
and so I really didn't know and we 
decided to open up a business 
I had no idea what I was doing he he 
really pushed it and I wasn't ready for 
it because I just wanted to be at home 
with my kids and then teach at night and 
when we opened up the business he really 
just was kind of tunnel vision into his 
business and his career was changing his 
full-time career was changing that was a 
very very well established career yeah 
after a couple years we were doing very 
well as far as the business but I was 
working about 60 hours a week wow kids 
and Mommy 
completely opposite of what I was 
experiencing and I there was a lot of 
times where I just said can we just sell 
the business this is not what I want and 
he insisted we need to keep going 
um and then he went through some dark 
times his dad had passed away and his 
career was definitely having an effect 
on him 
and he went through a very dark place 
where he pushed me out I was nothing to 
him I was not attractive to him 
even as a mom I just felt defeated I 
felt worthless because he just pushed me 
away but in the meantime my office 
manager that I considered a very dear 
friend was going through a divorce so I 
was being there for her but then she was 
being there for me but in the meantime 
this whole process my ex-husband and her 
were talking behind my back for a whole 
year 
and every single time that I would 
question the texting the phone calls the 
meeting up 
they kept saying I don't know what 
you're talking about Mindy we're talking 
about the business oh my God I felt 
crazy I felt like 
is anybody else in this world seeing 
this and me talking to my parents my 
parents were on my side yeah and here 
I'm trying so hard to salvage my 
marriage but at the same time every 
single time I would talk to this office 
manager I would basically tell her what 
I was doing with my husband if this is 
how I'm going to salvage it yeah and 
instead I was the Naggy wife and she was 
the perfect 
friend let's just say that 
um and then at after a year he decided 
to file for divorce and my world was 
just taken away everything the house 
everything was just taken away and I had 
to start over from scratch and never 
paid myself this is the first time I was 
paying myself through the business I had 
to get a house all I could think about 
is I need to survive I need to get 
through this with my kids take care of 
them 
um and then also take care of this 
business because this is all I know at 
this point even with my degree this is 
all I knew wow you were completely gas 
lit yes you were lied to by two really 
important people in your life that you 
had trusted you were confiding in and 
then he files I mean my like I have 
chills listening to this 
yes I mean there was a time that I just 
was seeking any type of help to salvage 
that marriage and I remember the moment 
that the office manager I knew it 
clicked in my head because still I was 
kind of if I'm offensive is this really 
happening and I was talking about 
parenting of co-parenting and 50 custody 
and she said he deserves those kids just 
as much as you do and oh oh so you 
started to realize there was really more 
behind the Betrayal yes you were like 
wait what you were team Mindy five 
seconds ago what happened and it was 
like the Jekyll hide at a certain point 
right and how ironic she wouldn't allow 
her ex-husband to see her kids so that's 
when I knew 
oh that's right 
oh look at you this yeah I'm done yeah 
I'm done ever speaking about anything to 
you at this point and I had nothing to 
prove as far as the cheating and then 
what was going on 
um but she ended up quitting and that's 
when I had to sit down my staff and say 
you know what she has she's gone and I 
know you're all friends with her because 
she portrayed this perfect perfect woman 
um and I said I will never speak of her 
again and that next year when I'm going 
through my divorce one by one my 
employees were coming to me saying we 
had no idea because she was trying to 
sabotage me and my ex kept saying I 
don't know what you're talking about 
so they just kept this role of 
there's something going on but yet 
um there was and people are starting to 
see it I wasn't the only one I did not 
feel crazy anymore at that time well I 
think that that's so important just when 
you're being gaslit that there's 
something in your gut that knows that 
it's not right but when the two closest 
people to you are going to convince you 
it's not how it can be this massive wave 
of confusion and self-doubt and then you 
throw that into being exhausted because 
you're still parenting you're still 
trying to repair your marriage you're 
still building a business it's enough to 
make anybody anybody feel out of just 
out of control in that way and then to 
find out that you were right I'm curious 
like 
how did that impact you trusting your 
gut moving forward 
I think the trust process moving forward 
was so hard because it wasn't just my 
ex-husband it was yeah a good friend of 
mine and also that helped 
was the face of my business 
um and so relationships with men or 
family members or friendships 
really were hard because I doubted 
myself I doubted 
are they really going to come through 
are they really going to be there for me 
are they going with their words their 
actions and their words are they meeting 
yeah um so for me I was just in 
television though I just kept going and 
there were three people in my life that 
I only confided in at that time and you 
know I was seeking therapy I needed 
therapy to get through this because I 
was 
heartbroken that here I thought this was 
supposed to be the love of my life 
looking at my children them being so 
little and not understanding what's 
going on and also seeing this woman that 
was my best friend 
I don't understand 
karma karma I know and the funny thing 
is is now that they're older they have a 
voice and they're talking about it more 
because they said Mom when we were 
little we felt like we didn't have a 
voice because we couldn't say anything 
about the situation and it's just it's 
heartbreaking because you as a parent 
you want to protect them and you want to 
get them through that hard time and gosh 
I was so vulnerable with them was 
telling them you know I love you I care 
about you I know your dad does too and 
we care about you together as parents 
um but we're just not going to work out 
and you're gonna be okay we're here for 
you but just hearing them now that 
they're older I'm hearing a lot more of 
what they went through 
and um you know it's eye-opening right 
now you know and they're such a good mom 
I mean that's that's what kids need to 
hear and and so hard because they don't 
give us the manual so no they don't they 
do not they would I'm still waiting for 
a dating version quarantine 
um that would be great 
so Mindy after that relationship and 
your trust is shaken and you are coming 
from this Foundation where you thought 
you were with the love of your life and 
you face this massive betrayal 
how did that inform the next big 
relationship you found yourself into 
like what tell us a little bit about the 
next guy who had the name that I always 
joke 
all blank or bad but you could tell tell 
us a little bit about this guy 
you know I I was at a point in my life 
where my mom was like you need to get on 
someone dating sites and I'm like I have 
no idea what I'm doing I've never dated 
before and so I you know I got on us I 
got a match that was the very first one 
that I ever got on I was kind of 
overwhelmed 
um but I I did meet some good guys I met 
some scary guys yeah but again I had no 
idea what I was doing and I think I was 
not healed at all I was not healed I was 
still very emotional and then all of a 
sudden it was probably eight months 
later 
this guy came in and he's very handsome 
and his name was Chad and 
that that name that we just don't really 
like sorry for all the good Chads in the 
world oh sorry I always I know sorry for 
all the good ones I always joke with all 
Chads are bad all Chads are bad hey 
quick question to put this into 
perspective you get divorced you're in 
therapy how long until you hopped onto 
the sites like what was the time frame 
like bring us to pre present time in the 
story I I think 
he filed in August and I was out of the 
house by October okay and it was by 
December like it was New Year's December 
31st that I got on Match just to say 
because my mom oh gosh my mom she just 
kept pushing because she just wanted to 
get me out of that mindset of being in a 
depressive mode I guess and she just 
wanted to seek 
me happy 
um but that was probably December 
January but really I had no idea what it 
was doing and I did not meet Chad until 
June 
um so it took a long time 
um but I was still I was not right of 
course 
after divorce yeah or 12 weeks after he 
filed that you're on the apps more or 
less I was not ready and and looking 
back that is one thing that I suggest to 
all women is take your time heal get 
through that those moments but I met 
Chad and he came on so strong 
um 
he 
he would text me and text me and text me 
wanting to get to know me and it took a 
little bit for him to actually 
physically meet me because he was two 
hours away but he worked here 
um it was it was a weird dynamic but 
once he came on it was 
flowers and showing up and just saying 
you are he I think after three weeks he 
said I want to marry you and I was like 
I mean we had gone to a game in St Louis 
and they got these I guess the rings 
that you earn when you know the baseball 
team wins and he gave it to me he goes 
If This Were a ring I'm gonna give it to 
you 
and I want to marry you and I'm like 
um new weeks in a few weeks in and I to 
me I was like 
okay well he really likes me 
um but I'm not ready to get married the 
papers aren't even signed yet my kids 
I'm still you have not been introduced 
to my kids like there was so much going 
on my head but still I was so vulnerable 
and I trusted him and I felt safe with 
him because he was saying all the right 
things 
and after two months I got to see the 
real version of him and it was a little 
scary it was alcohol induced and I was 
not drinking I just saw this vicious 
side and this temper tantrum and I'm 
like no way I'm done 
um and I sat him down I said this is not 
what I want for my kids but yet 
I kind of laid low a little bit and then 
he just kept coming back he would come 
back really strong and loving and I'm 
going to be here for you 
and then it would go back to his old 
habits and I think for me I still was 
not healed because I was not strong 
enough to say goodbye shutting the door 
I don't want to see you ever again and 
so that was on and off for a while and 
he ended up moving here 
um to try to see if things worked out 
and I will tell you the truth 
the emotional and mental abuse that he 
put in my mind 
did not help at all I had gone through 
therapy and I thought I was strong 
enough and putting my foot down 
um it was it just kept he was just kept 
going to his old habits and I was 
allowing that I was allowing that to 
happen and I kept thinking he's going to 
change if I do this he's going to change 
he wasn't changing and I think there was 
a moment that kind of hit me with my 
children because I knew of him he just 
wouldn't really come around and there 
was a tornado drill at in our 
neighborhood and we're in the closet and 
then I hadn't really spoken to him and 
he actually was calling his name came 
across my phone and my kids looked down 
and they said don't answer it 
because he was calling me to check on me 
and the kids okay so that's an 
eye-opening experience when your kids 
are saying don't answer it yes again 
they didn't like him they did not like 
him and they still are so thankful that 
he is not in my life because again they 
were so young at one time that they 
couldn't really speak up and now I hear 
so much and I'm 
I wish that I was more open with their 
feelings too because because they could 
see that I was hurt and I was crying but 
I would never tell them really why I was 
crying I would just step in another room 
being that protective mom but yet my 
kids are watching and they're listening 
was it alcohol driven so when he would 
get drunk he would get mean and threaten 
and say awful things like is that what 
was going on just to put it to clarify 
it in my mind yes a lot of alcohol even 
my parents noticed how much alcohol he 
would take in like we would be at their 
pool and the fights he was just vicious 
he was threatening to me in my life my 
reputation 
everything and so it got to a point that 
I got scared I got scared of maybe I can 
just be friends with him and we will 
just have that friendship relationship 
and because I was so scared of what he 
could do yeah and finally I just had 
enough and I said enough's enough I'm 
going to therapy again I'm going to be 
stronger I started reading self-help 
books I started listening to Bella on 
the Instagrams during covid and I just 
started relating to other women's 
stories and I thought if they can get 
through this so can I yeah because you 
never think that you're going to be in 
those shoes and then start listening to 
other women you're like if they can get 
out I can get out and it was abuse and 
it might have not been that physical 
abuse it was that emotional a verbal 
abuse that I couldn't take I I I told 
him one time you my soul is broken my 
soul oh no desire at all to ever be with 
a man see a man 
because it was just traumatizing to me 
and it's still I'm still having that 
those trust issues and it's not only 
from my ex-husband yeah him because I 
confided in him my world my stories my 
pain and he would use it against me 
against you I'm in a self-sabotage you 
I'm going to use it against you I'm 
going to hurt you yeah and this is what 
narcissists do and if you look at you'd 
been in this relationship that your 
marriage has started off you were young 
but then the behavior turned and you 
started getting gas lit and there was a 
lot of inconsistencies and a lot of 
blaming and that behavior starts to 
become familiar and so then you start 
dating when you're Raw what do you do 
you gravitate towards what's familiar 
and that's very normal to sort of say so 
when somebody comes on strong and you 
haven't had this attention and you've 
had it is like shining a light it's 
intoxicating it's so understandable why 
people fall into that and this is a lot 
of reasons why if you had married in 
second year a lot of second marriages 
will end in divorce if these patterns 
aren't addressed and so 
his Charming side but what I think is 
super interesting I think the listeners 
really should note this Behavior came 
out about two months in and what we'll 
tell you is it's usually it's around 
before around months three months four 
there's usually a big crack in the armor 
and it's a good indicator that 
something's amiss and we call it sort of 
the tip of the iceberg and then you give 
things time you start revealing a whole 
of other red flags and 
you know I mean you're not alone with 
this it happens all the time and the 
fact that you were so brave to end the 
relationship that you were Brave to 
really look at yourself and look at what 
you want to do to improve get the help 
you needed get the therapy stand up for 
yourself run a still run a successful 
business and be there for your kids I 
mean wow hats off to you you are 
Superwoman well thank you I think it 
took a lot of being vulnerable with 
people around me that care about me and 
love me and looking out for me putting 
my kids first and putting me first of 
this is not healthy I mean it was 
physically my life my body everything it 
was just changing 
um and so that's why I just had to get 
out and it was very toxic and 
people women are very brave to get out 
of those relationships and I wish more 
and more people were upfront about what 
they're going through that way they have 
people behind them supporting them to 
help them get out absolutely and and one 
thing that I I love what you said you 
know it's like your parents had a great 
marriage but we love hard and we fight 
hard so from your family background 
you had a relationship you had I can 
only imagine as a kid what you would 
think is love can be hard right and so 
you're willing to withstand all of this 
stuff with your ex-husband until that 
Breaking Point happens Chad comes in 
you're like okay again love is hard love 
requires fighting so but at a certain 
point and how long did your relationship 
with Chad last ultimately ultimately it 
was on and off for three years three 
years right and this is three years like 
you said you're healing you're going 
through therapy you had been through 
this again but those like Lindsay said 
those patterns of familiarity and those 
core beliefs love is hard there is 
fighting right there will be trauma and 
then gravitating towards people that are 
familiar and abusive you're a beautiful 
smart educated person it's like this can 
happen to every single one of us yes 
that's right and and so what was your 
point where you're like enough is enough 
and and what brought you to Instagram 
and let's kind of flip into where the 
light started to shine in your life 
you know Bella I had heard about you 
prior to covid and there was you know 
little things that you would post but 
then it was during covid obviously we're 
all in our homes and 
um I was still 
working 
however your podcasts are excuse me your 
Instagrams we're going on Thursday 
evenings and I was working so I was like 
running home to get the tail end of your 
Instagram but then the next day I would 
just play it and listen to it 
um there was a lot that you know people 
were promoting their books I would get 
their books I am like listening to 
everything Bella has to say and going 
yes I agree with her yes I've been 
through that oh my gosh this is me and 
so for the next year I just kept 
listening to you and what you were 
saying and finally it was November 
December that I felt like 2022 is going 
to be my year my kids are getting older 
they're going to be moving out of a 
house and for college and I thought this 
is the time for me I want to do it the 
right way I know that I've really tried 
hard to date but I'm not doing it the 
right way I am going into it you know 
completely of I have no idea what I'm 
doing so that's when I reached out to 
Bella and I'm so glad I did because 
it was the best investment I've ever 
made because it was about me and my 
process and what my traumas have I've 
gone through I mean gosh sitting down 
with Lindsay for you know just to get to 
know my past and my presence and what I 
need to be looking forward into my 
dating world really has helped navigate 
where I am today and that's not just in 
a relationship but that's how I see how 
I approach my business or my family or 
friendships it's I'm really just sit 
back and I think about things of how I 
deal with them 
so that's where I'm at today 
oh well let's flip back you know tell us 
what what happened so you decide to make 
this investment and we're excited I know 
you came to Chicago you did your photo 
shoots I mean you're dazzling and 
stunning and those photos were 
spectacular was that a fun day 
oh my gosh I was the most giddy little 
girl ever that day 
I mean first of all in Chicago in 
February it was like negative six 
degrees 
I tell you guys come do this in the fall 
don't wait till January February okay 
but I will tell you your group of women 
that come together made me feel and I 
know I've said this before like 
Cinderella and made me feel so 
comfortable that day 
um just the whole process it was just so 
much fun it was like a girl day we're 
dressing up or taking pictures I felt 
like a million dollars that day of how I 
looked and how I felt I just felt so 
confident that day 
um and like I said they made me feel so 
comfortable and we got to know each 
other and you know establish a 
relationship again it's just getting to 
know them and that whole process and 
also just taking my mind away from my 
reality was really great just to get 
away and focus on just me and knowing 
that this is this is going to be my 
future this is what we're setting myself 
up for was just a fantastic day for me 
in my confidence and who I was and just 
everything yeah 
yeah like a butterfly and you hit the 
reset button it's like okay now I have 
these two people who are just gonna 
support either side and really help 
watch and make sure that they're no 
repeating of the past patterns and 
there's no missteps 
yeah your photos I mean really wow your 
photos were fantastic just another side 
note I love the photo I loved Michelle I 
mean they were amazing both of them they 
just knew and I'm like they're going 
into these different areas and I'm like 
how are we gonna get that shot and it 
came out amazing like it was the coolest 
shots that we were doing and I would 
have never known you know just from that 
perspective so creative 
um my makeup gosh she just kept adding 
different things and I'm like gosh 
you're just making me feel even better 
about myself and I know confidence is 
huge just in general but just adding 
just a little bit of a lipstick I mean 
what Bella says that very red I mean 
gosh it totally changes the game every 
time and and we do the photo shoot early 
in the process for precisely that reason 
and we pull like you are a queen and the 
goal is to to reset the foundation to 
know I am a queen inside out and people 
will treat you really well and so and 
you get 
photos that start to you know your 
milkshake brings all the boys to the 
yard so so 
yeah I think that's I think that's kind 
of what happened so you guys went 
through the three hour jump start 
session you set this Foundation you know 
you're looking for 
a type of person you know what your 
wants were you knew what your needs are 
and these are different for every single 
people this is just part of our process 
so now you know what the red flags are 
right and so now you hit launch and you 
know that there's a process behind you 
you guys tell every what happened during 
the process you 
well I know that just meeting with 
Lindsay I love just sitting down with 
her and just that three hour session was 
just amazing for me it was eye-opening 
it really was 
um and her just how she you know was 
directing me and how I was in the past 
and and now like this is where we want 
to go 
um and just sitting down with her and 
writing down what I really want in 
someone was so important because I've 
never done that I've never just sat down 
and go this is what I really wanted a 
man 
um so when I launched I was nervous 
because again going back to years prior 
when I was going through a divorce 
I was overwhelmed of what what do I do 
and she was right there you know with me 
through the whole entire process with 
the launch 
um 
I know that weekend I was a little busy 
and she said well what we're going to 
launch to say go can we just do it on a 
Monday I think I'm I'm gonna be ready to 
go in my mindset but that whole process 
of gearing up with my profile pics you 
know the actual profile of what I need 
to include was really important because 
I was putting myself out there and I 
really wanted to gravitate towards men 
that put in the effort just as much as I 
did and that's where she came in and she 
she helped me say no we don't want this 
type of guy we want this type of guy 
which was really helpful she was 
definitely my cheerleader right there in 
my ear 
and you blew up the internet you got a 
huge response a huge response we had to 
go with through everything with a 
fine-tooth comb and we did a lot of 
deleting and cleaning out of the inbox 
but the crazies the unsafe the red 
flaggers right so fast I couldn't keep 
up I was like I know I just know I just 
start deleting right away and then 
pointing out here's a red flag here's a 
red flag and really sort of setting good 
expectations around how do we screen 
people in and we can't delete everybody 
so we had to play the numbers game a 
little bit too and keep enough people 
and start working the process to develop 
your dating funnel but tell us about the 
super like that popped up in your inbox 
um a little bit in while we're starting 
to work together and kind of how how 
that started to evolve you know I I 
blush and I get chills you're turning 
red right now over I wish you all you 
can see this over Zoom like her face is 
matching her pretty Berry lip right 
about now 
you know um we were on during the day we 
had met Lindsay and I and then that 
evening I noticed a super like and I'm 
like well somebody took the time to 
Super like me and messaged me at the 
same time and the same night on the 
first day of me launching and so I read 
she told me she's like this is the 
process this is what you need to do in 
order for him not to be a red flag and 
so I'm looking at him and I'm like well 
first of all he's very attractive 
and I read his profile and when I met 
with Lindsay you know I was just like 
he super likes me and messaged me and 
then going from there I was like giddy 
I'm like this is this is a this is a 
contender which has been the running 
joke I think 
um because he just was kept being there 
and Lindsay was like okay we like the 
smart guy okay so but we still have this 
these other prospects that we need to 
look into who were following the process 
that she told me about 
but I will tell you Mark just kept going 
and he was doing all the right things of 
what we wanted him to do as far as what 
I seek in a man so that's where Lindsay 
came in and just helped guided me in the 
right directions of what I needed to do 
that way I wasn't making any more dating 
mistakes like I did in the past 
tell people what you do you are logged 
in as Mindy you are when Lindsay just 
you know casually says I went in and did 
this and did that Lindsay is the pilot 
of the plane okay Lizzie his takes over 
hijacks your inbox while you're in 
session and literally we'll teach people 
this is a red flag this is a green flag 
and when she says I deleted all the 
unsaviaries she knows and it's like no 
teach no teach no teach and that's how 
we know we teach you so then that is how 
you start to be able to fly your own 
ship so Lindsay's in there helping 
reading the middle it down and whittling 
it down and making sure that even though 
there is this good Prospect what do most 
people want to do when they get a mark 
in their inbox they want to stop dating 
other people right and so now you're 
cracking up so I'll I I just wanted to 
kind of dig into that a little bit now 
so we've got super like Mark we've got 
you know other people in the funnel what 
happened now you guys 
um for me go ahead Lindsay well I was 
gonna ask you this because I think so 
we've whittled down the Inbox and Mark 
is looking good he's got a great profile 
there are no red flags he is absolutely 
handsome it's very exciting when you see 
somebody that you're attracted to and 
we're keeping other people in the mix so 
biggest thing we say is always talk on 
the phone first so tell us about some of 
those first conversations you've had 
with Mark and how you felt when you 
started when you first screened him in 
well so again you guys have a process 
and it's a step-by-step process and you 
said the dating funnel and so we message 
each other and how you set it up as me 
responding but always asking a question 
to keep it going and you said let's turn 
it over to a phone call and so I did I'm 
like hey you know asking him let's set 
up a phone call I'm available this time 
or this time 
and 
for me I made a mistake let's just say I 
was actually um he set up a phone call 
he did his job he said a phone call on a 
Thursday night and I was actually on a 
date and there was a blizzard coming 
I missed his phone call 
because I was driving in this blizzard 
home and I missed this phone call and 
I'm like oh my gosh I just missed the 
phone call to hear his voice because we 
want to hear his voice yeah um but 
instead of him just ghosting me and 
blowing me off he goes let's set up 
another phone call and I said okay 
and here I thought it was a phone call 
but he actually set up a FaceTime which 
that's another process exactly sure and 
I will tell you with Bella's process 
through the covet although there's 
negatives there's some positives that 
came out of this and the number one 
thing is that face time date is so 
important 
um but again in my notes I had it down 
as a phone call I had been taking a nap 
that day because my son's birthday that 
day and everybody's coming over my hair 
is in a messy bun 
smudged underneath my eyes and he's 
FaceTiming me and he told me he goes 
Mindy I had I told everybody I had to be 
home at three o'clock I was FaceTiming 
someone so he was doing his job and I'm 
like oh my God he's FaceTiming me so I 
am trying to wipe off everything 
halfway decent and 
they tell you guys tell us you know 20 
to 30 minutes maybe Max of a FaceTime 
call it turned into an hour and I loved 
every minute of it because the 
conversation just flowed it wasn't like 
what's your favorite color or what do 
you do for a living it was honestly the 
most natural conversation I've ever had 
and getting off that phone call I was 
like well I want more but and what what 
did he do he set up a date he he said 
that date during that face time of hey I 
would like to meet you for lunch this 
date he said a time and a date and I was 
like okay so I got off the phone going 
well 
alrighty I'm moving on to the next date 
but at the same time I still have that 
dating funnel going on with the 
messaging unmatched 
um someone calling me someone setting up 
a FaceTime and then eventually turning 
into a date yes but the fact that he 
followed all this these steps even when 
I missed the phone call he kept going 
yeah he assumed positive intent yes he 
didn't end so often people get that 
message that's kind of nasty the next 
day which is just another red flag and 
so he was consistent but we talk about 
this a lot men who are interested follow 
a very specific and women too but we 
follow very specific patterns of being 
consistent and not leaving you hanging 
or wondering what the next step is so he 
follows up and so tell us a little bit 
about your courtship with him how did it 
start as you're dating other people 
everybody this is really important 
Lindsay did not let that funnel stop 
she's like yeah that's great about this 
Mark guy and we need to you know bring 
in no Chads just kidding no chats 
no honestly she did say that like no we 
like Mark he's up there but we're gonna 
keep going and I did and I did 
um yes you did I followed all the steps 
um because she was in my ear you know we 
met every week and we went through 
um the profile and then I would tell her 
about well I did a FaceTime with this 
guy 
um I like him I I think you know I'm 
just waiting for the date and he would 
set up the dates so then there were some 
that I was like this time no I'm done oh 
there were some doozies in there I think 
as you're continuing to go out with Mark 
on it I think it's it was a really 
consistent basis it was one day a week 
you guys met for lunch 
several weeks in a row right yes you uh 
we we actually there was times where it 
was like two lunch meetings 
um you know maybe one on a Tuesday and 
then one on a Thursday 
um but I was he the thing is about Mark 
and I I only hope about other women is 
my schedule is all over the place that 
he was making time he was actually 
scheduling time for me to make it 
convenient 
um which again being a parent and being 
a business owner I'm kind of all over 
the place so my schedule is not ideal 
but he was making that time and I 
remember Lindsay saying you've had a lot 
of lunch dates we need to turn them over 
into the evening dates and you know what 
he did he did he took that next step and 
he's like I want to take you out on this 
evening would you be available so it was 
that whole process of he just kept going 
and he and I was not being insistent on 
demanding on saying well I need you to 
do this I just suggested things like hey 
maybe we should meet up sometime in the 
evening you know for a drink or you know 
dinner and he jumped on it he actually 
so the time a place and a date 
um yeah and then after you know I would 
say weeks of doing that 
um 
he sat me down and I it was at a dinner 
and he's like I just want to be 
exclusive with you I only want to date 
you 
um I really have enjoyed getting to know 
you and I want to get to know you more 
and that's when I politely had said you 
know I really enjoyed being with you as 
well I enjoyed getting to know you but I 
do think it's important that there needs 
to be a commitment made 
um so I'm going to continue dating 
um 
and he respected it and he goes well I'm 
okay with that I'm going to keep dating 
you no matter what I I want to be with 
you and he didn't get outfitted he 
wasn't upset 
it was like the most secure man I've 
ever met in my life that he just he knew 
what he wanted and he respected it and 
he kept continuing to follow as I would 
say the process the process exactly and 
I think where the 
commitment came in we knew he was really 
he really liked Jimmy's more serious but 
what we had talked about was the 
importance of time and making sure that 
you drew this out as long as you could 
to really see who he was because we'd 
had this experience with the bad chat 
we're two months in things are great 
great great great great great and then 
there's this big turn in Behavior so it 
was giving him time and consistency to 
show you who he was and put little tests 
along the way of does he show up when 
you don't jump in to be exclusive with 
them right away does that get him upset 
where he's like if you don't want to be 
exclusive with me I'm out of here or 
does he continue to pursue you so you 
did a really good job of slowing that 
down while continuing to date other 
people and I think he was secure enough 
to know hey in the end she's getting 
into picking B yes yeah right he was 
very confident with that 
um but again I was dating other people 
and then there was a moment that 
I share this story just because again we 
all have those moments with dates that 
will forever be with us and we will 
never forget 
Mark had actually I was working and he 
had said can I stop by just to say hi 
and I thought that was very nice of him 
just to say hi and it was for 15 minutes 
and I showed him around my business 
um but I had a date scheduled that night 
which was he didn't know 
um he just knew I was working 
um and so I just thought that was very 
nice of him to do that and that just 
more points towards him but I ended up 
going on a date with this man that I 
went through the messaging I went 
through the phone call of the FaceTime 
and then he set up the date 
um and I got to the day a little bit 
late maybe about five ten minutes late 
and I thought he would be there and he 
was like now I'm running late and so I'm 
sitting there you know at the restaurant 
waiting for him and he comes in 
he's like I'm here and I'm like okay 
he's here and he sits down and I 
again say hi it's finally nice to meet 
you he's like hey I need to take my 
Invisalign out is that okay and I'm like 
my mouth kind of dropped like what and 
he took it out the slobber came with it 
in his pocket and that's when I was like 
there's two moments right now my stomach 
drops I'm sick to my stomach that was 
gross and definitely Mark is definitely 
that number one Contender because I 
don't know if I can do this anymore of 
you know that just happened and we were 
supposed we continued to eat our dinner 
but I barely eat my dinner that night 
because what just happened in front of 
my face First Impressions matter and 
they weigh very heavily you know if 
you're in a relationship with somebody 
down the road and you know they have 
Invisalign that's one thing when it's on 
a first date and then you're just taking 
that out it is it makes a big impression 
and I mean there was gosh there was a 
mix of a couple different people you met 
and I think as we talked about like when 
you were having a dating funnel it was a 
really good comparison and contrast it 
was a good compare and contrast to Mark 
and I think people can be afraid to keep 
others in the mix they feel guilty but 
what it can really do 
you have a good Contender it screams 
that contender in even more even more 
that's right you like them more by 
looking at who the other options are and 
you're dating from a place of security 
because you're making a choice you're 
not just for falling for the first 
person who picks you 
yes it's much more empowering I think 
another thing just with the dating 
funnel too 
um and Bella has mentioned it in her 
Instagrams of the love bombing like I 
listen to these stories but I never 
really like narrowed it down to what 
love bombing was up until you pointed it 
out with Chad and then now this dating 
funnel I did have someone that was so 
intense writing me paragraphs in a text 
and I'm I'm reaching out to you Lindsay 
how do I end this like 
what what do I say to politely in this 
and I did and an hour later I have 
flowers at my business and I'm like 
whoa thank you for the flowers but 
really we just we need to part ways but 
and I think Lindsay with you me reaching 
out to you saying what do I do about 
this situation because I've never really 
I want to do this the correct way in a 
respectful way and you being there in my 
ear and telling me hey I suggest you do 
this really helped me build my 
confidence and then also 
um eliminated someone that I did not 
need in my life for sure for sure and it 
builds your confidence in knowing that 
you have her there to reach out to at 
any time going oh my God this crazy dude 
just sent me flowers what do I do and 
Lindsay knowing Lindsay as well as I do 
she'll be like block him and now we're 
done yes we're done yes and yes no and 
there will be people who come up and we 
say this over and over again crazy can't 
hide it shows up we see it and then we 
deal with it and we address it we block 
it and we move on and you know so things 
with Mark you know are going well you 
had a dating funnel you have now been 
dating 
really actually I mean several weeks a 
couple of months at this point he's 
expressed that he really wants to date 
you exclusively you buy more time 
tell us what it was about Mark that you 
were attracted to 
um I want you to I'd love for you to 
answer the question for the listeners 
did you have butterflies when you met 
him and did you know he was the one on 
the very first date like and then answer 
how you felt as you started to get to 
know him more lots of questions no so 
I'm going to address the first question 
which is the butterflies there were zero 
butterflies say that again for the 
people in the back just kidding there 
were zero butterflies with this man 
um and with that because again I 
remember Bella saying you don't want 
belt you don't want butterflies Lindsay 
says you don't want butterflies 
and that first date when I met him was 
very calming and easy and laid back and 
natural 
um and I wasn't thinking this is the one 
because I just thought well there's some 
other guys that I'm going on dates with 
too this is just one of them and that I 
really think this man is a gentleman 
he's very respectful he's very kind 
um and I just kind of went about my life 
and that's when he kept asking me out on 
more dates but really those first couple 
of weeks I 
I wasn't thinking that this is the one 
this is just a guy that honestly I would 
like to see again and get to know 
because I have these other guys in my 
dating funnel yes um yes answer your 
last question about him 
I have a very high paced lifestyle 
a lot going on in my life and he brings 
such calmness to my life and that's 
where 
I really have enjoyed him being in my 
life is it's just so easy and laid back 
and he takes me into just a different 
world I mean he could be over at my 
house and we're making dinner and I just 
feel like calm I feel like there's no 
busyness to my life and I really value 
that I really value someone being very 
supportive gentle and kind and he's just 
everything that I with Lindsay wrote 
down of the things that I desire in a 
man and it's not the six foot you know 
blue eyes whatever that the women really 
want it is 
so honestly it's the the values the 
morals the the character oh my gosh his 
personality it's just 
I I love how he makes me laugh I love 
that he can sit and listen to me 
um I love that he helps me through those 
hard times in my life that I'm going 
through whether it's with my kids or my 
business you know he's just and he shows 
up and he honors his words when he says 
he's going to do something he does it 
and I don't have to prompt him two or 
three times it is just like he's just 
gonna do it because he wants to and he 
goes I know I don't need to I want to 
and he always says that he wants to be 
with me he wants to be there for me so 
that's that's what made me fall for him 
is just seeing that and I honestly 
before you guys I really thought 
I don't know if there's really a guy out 
there for me that can deal with this 
crazy lifestyle and my high energy 
personality that he really just it's I 
always say you're Ying to my yang it's 
you know I'm busy and and very talkative 
and outgoing but he's just so calm and 
laid back and we just come together and 
you know 
I just really have just enjoyed this 
whole process with him and I'm I'm very 
in love with him 
oh 
I can see it on your face things and 
feel it it's so 
incredibly sincere and I I think what's 
nice is we had this list created of who 
your high GHQ man was going to be and 
then I know as you were trying to figure 
out if he was you wanted to be exclusive 
with him I had you write another list of 
all the things about him that you really 
liked and now looking back when you pull 
out those lists and you look at sort of 
where we started in the process and 
how he falls tell us a little bit like 
does he hit your list 
oh absolutely he hits my list and and I 
know when you guys Lindsay you and I 
wrote down the most important people in 
my life that have affected me in a 
positive way I'll never forget that that 
was like as Oprah would say an aha 
moment in my life 
um I never realized the the people that 
are in my life that have impacted me and 
in such a supportive positive way that's 
the type of person that you really want 
in your life all of those people you 
want to put them all together and you 
want that person in your life yeah and 
that's Mark he has checked off every 
single box on that list it wasn't the 
previous list it was that second list 
that those are the people I put all of 
those valuable relationships in my life 
all in one and that's Mark and I found 
them 
on there right now and and what I want 
you to hear is there is a better way to 
do this right there is a way to feel 
secure and to feel like you have 
guidance and most importantly to have a 
dating funnel to date slowly to do all 
the things Mindy you're you're 
incredibly coachable you're all that is 
good and like I'm I knew your story but 
these podcasts and really Drilling in 
like I am not rendered speechless that 
often as both of you know but I'm really 
I'm just you know what you guys have 
done together is really remarkable and 
I'm so happy that Lindsay has been able 
to walk you through this process that is 
navigated with love bombers Kooks people 
that you need to block and giving you 
the script and sitting and whispering in 
your ear the things that you need to say 
or not say to keep things going and 
um you guys are in love and he sounds 
amazing he sounds like the lid to your 
pot and I'm gonna put my coach hat on 
for one second and I want you to always 
remember in this relationship with Mark 
is that relationships can and should be 
easy that doesn't mean they're not not 
work it's always work to keep a good 
relationship it's it's work to keep a 
friendship it's work to keep those 
relationships with your teenagers like 
we've talked about and it certainly work 
with the Romantic partner but it's not 
soul-crushing crying at the pool ripping 
your hair out wondering am I in this 
world of gaslighting it's a little bit 
of work but continue to know fighting 
hard is not something that I want you to 
do and you don't need to do 
right right and it sounds like you've 
met your match yeah yeah I mean just and 
and Mark and I there's been some you 
know moments where I think some of my 
Trauma from my past have come in and 
that's where Lindsay has said hey let's 
sit back is that from your previous 
relationships you know is that what 
you're facing and I've been very open 
with Lindsay about you know that whole 
process because there's been moments 
with Mark and I that 
me I question things just because of 
that past trauma and that's where she's 
really has helped me 
work through those moments yeah and then 
also 
I think what I've learned with this 
whole process with Lindsay is and you 
Bella is establishing those boundaries 
at the very beginning of your 
relationship of 
this is what I want and for my future 
and eliminating those red flag guys I 
mean it they they ran they ran far 
because they didn't want someone forever 
you know 
um so just sitting there with Lindsay 
and talking to her about some things 
that have arised in our relationship and 
it is based on my previous past and I 
think she's been very helpful through 
that 
um we're like not just my coach but also 
my therapist too and a sense of guiding 
me of okay this is I want you to sit 
back and I want you to write down I want 
you to listen to this podcast I want you 
to read this book that has really helped 
me because again you guys are there for 
a reason and I would only hope that 
people that are your clients are 
listening to what you're coaching 
because you guys are definitely there 
you are a hundred percent real and I I 
and I followed every step and I believe 
in you guys I Believe In You 110 with 
what you're doing 
oh I'm so emotional with this no I know 
this wow you've made my whole like day 
and week and life now I really I 
seriously I'm wiping like I really 
appreciate that so sincere and you guys 
are talking marriage huh is that right 
yeah you guys hear that go into the 
chapel and work again okay I'll stop 
serenading you that's a better song than 
the Milkshake song let's just go there 
okay clearly in life you do not know 
that reference but anyway no but I just 
I what I wanted to say is I'm so proud 
of you and I'm so happy that you didn't 
let the difficult relationships from 
your past and the other narcissists 
inform your future in the way that it 
kept you from ever trying to look for 
love again that you didn't give those 
guys all your power and all your control 
and saying well gosh you know what love 
is not going to be for me because that's 
all there is and that you looked at 
doing things differently and you were so 
incredible you're so incredibly 
coachable but just is why you're 
successful you know how to really 
internally look and do the work but 
you're very self-aware and I couldn't be 
happier for you guys and I just this has 
been really fun today guys I love these 
love stories I mean we love love but I 
really love love and we're gonna have a 
page that you can refer to on our 
website you know talking about Mindy's 
story and you can see pictures of her 
from our photo shoot and most 
importantly pictures of her with the 
cute lid to her pot and 
um Mindy thank you so much for being so 
open to the process being open on this 
episode and I know there's going to be 
so many people out there that can relate 
to you and to the experiences you've had 
you are a freaking Warrior goddess 
you're a badass entrepreneur you're an 
amazing mom you're a great friend you're 
a great girlfriend and I can't wait to 
see what your future holds well thank 
you for having me and thank you for 
everything you guys have done for me you 
really have inspired me and just pushed 
me into a different direction and I feel 
100 
ready for this next chapter in my life 
oh 
I'm so glad well smart daters if you 
feel called to it sign up for our free 
newsletter go to smartdatingacademy.com 
check out the page it'll be in the show 
notes of Mindy's relationship follow us 
on Instagram like Mindy said she tuned 
in to those IG lives there are 40 hours 
of Instagram lives if you follow us on 
Instagram at smartdatingacademy swipe 
over to where you can see the igtv 
series 
you'll be completely Sick Of My Voice by 
the end of those 40 hours either that or 
you'll be like I need to come and do 
this it'll be one or the other so 
um with that we bid you farewell and I 
hope that you are as inspired by Mindy's 
love story as Lindsay and I are because 
we know most importantly feel this in 
your soul all the way from the top of 
your head to your toes love is out there 
for you love is coming to you it's a 
when it's not an if get psychotically 
optimistic about your future and you 
finding the lid to your pot and we'll 
see you next week 
