there's so much value to being able to 
connect and really comprehend our story 
so that we can start to create change 
because the reality of it was is that my 
romantic relationships my friendships 
right like there were limitations and 
constraints and blocks there that kept 
me from having the relationships in life 
that I really desired because I couldn't 
speak up I didn't know how to have 
boundaries I pretended like I was fine I 
had no relationship with my voice 
whatsoever and I really needed 
personally to dive into this work that I 
write about now in order to do you know 
the healing that was necessary to shift 
from disempowered to empowered to move 
from survival to choice right like that 
to me is such a huge part of the healing 
process is reclaiming a relationship 
with choice and actually sort of sitting 
in the driver seat of Our Lives 
