i'm so happy to have my friend 
danielle robay join us today danielle's 
got her new podcast called pretty smart 
but she's also become an entrepreneur 
and this product that she's developed is 
so near and dear to my heart because i 
love questions and meaningful 
conversations so she's developed it's a 
card deck that's filled with questions 
for conversations one of the things with 
my card deck that i thought was 
interesting is that there was a harvard 
business review study published by uh 
alison wood and leslie k and it's called 
the surprising power of questions and 
they cite that the most common complaint 
people make after having a conversation 
such as a first date or a work meeting 
or an interview is i wish so and so had 
asked me more questions 
doing this like preparing answers to 
questions made her a heck of a lot more 
interesting 
at dinners 
