[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back 
these you know are my favorite episodes 
to do because 
I love love I love helping people I love 
helping people find love and most of all 
what I love are stories 
and I love the love stories of people 
that have found Love sometimes from 
their own perspective against the odds 
like I don't know if it'll ever happen 
to me and then when it does happen to 
them 
so many people like today's amazing 
guest my client sugar who found love and 
is going to tell you about her journey 
and the goal of these stories is to know 
that if you're sitting there at home on 
a walk on a train listening to this 
episode thinking it's just not going to 
happen for me I'm too old I'm to this 
I'm to that whatever your story is I 
want you to hear about Sugar's Journey 
today and I hope that it leaves you with 
all the Hope in the world and as I said 
that I got goosebumps on my entire body 
I want it to leave you with the hope 
that your love story is out there and 
it's just waiting to be written so sugar 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm so excited and thank you so 
much for being here well thank you so 
much for having me I'm really excited to 
share my story and like you said you 
know give some hope or at least just you 
know people can hear what what happened 
to me 
well first of all I have to tell you 
guys sugar is her nickname because sugar 
is part of a buy one get one free 
identical twins package and so her real 
name is Almira and she has a beautiful 
twin sister 
and let's just suffice it to say that 
the twins nicknames are sugar and spice 
yes yes thanks our grandfather yes your 
grandfather saw it early he's like 
you're the sweet one I'm gonna call you 
sugar 
yes and it's stuck you know it stuck 
through 
um middle school high school college 
even now you know we're on a couple of 
boards and everyone knows it's a sugar 
and spice sugar and spice absolutely 
they're pretty well known socialites in 
Chicago as well so I I remember the 
first time when Almira emailed me and we 
were going back and forth and she says 
well my nickname is actually Sugar I'm 
like oh my God I love that so much I 
want to be nicknamed sugar 
by joke only friend uh only co-workers 
and strangers call me Almira so 
um I I usually don't respond down there 
like there's been times I've been known 
to people call my name and I totally 
don't even realize they're through 
saying my name 
oh my gosh well sugar just to set up a 
couple of demographical you know bass 
lines so people know you're based in 
Chicago you have an awesome corporate 
job you're a heavy hitter badass and 
you're in your mid-40s 
yes yes so I yeah I studied chemical 
engineering at Purdue and I've been at 
um my job Accenture which is a global 
I.T company for the past 23 years now 
and now yeah I live downtown Chicago yes 
wow what an account amazing 
accomplishment did you guys hear that 
she's an engineer at Purdue and has had 
the same job well not the same job but 
been at the same company for 23 years 
ironically I think you and I talked I 
started my career at Arthur Anderson so 
which and then the I.T division of 
Arthur Anderson spun off and is now what 
we know as Accenture so sugar and I This 
was meant to be we were destined so so 
when you do the math yes I'm 46. you're 
40. level 46. oh my God and when you see 
these photos you guys and we're gonna 
put these sugars can have a page on our 
website she looks like she's 15 years 
younger than she actually is and I have 
seen her in person so I can attest to 
her China Doll Beauty so sugar tell us 
about your your journey in in life and 
love and dating 
so I um I was married for almost 10 
years to a fellow chemical engineering 
student actually at Purdue and you know 
it was a very painful divorce you know 
it took me about eight years to finally 
put myself out there finally even think 
that I was ready 
and what got me ready was like I said 
this is perfect storm so I had a family 
member the right after covid at a family 
member that was basically facing a 
medical crisis and then I had this other 
friend who was looking to hire this 
Millionaire Matchmaker 
uh you know and I realized and then I 
also realized you know after covid the 
couples that made it through had a 
really solid foundation and you know I 
share my absolutely fabulous life with 
my friends and my family and so why 
can't I share that with you know a 
special someone 
um so 
you know and and I got this fortune 
cookie that actually said you need to 
make more time for romance a fortune 
cookie like from the Chinese restaurant 
well it was from Taos that you know 
those giant fortune cookies so I was 
like okay maybe the work you know so it 
was just these different signs and 
everything and you know I told my friend 
who was looking at this Millionaire 
Matchmaker I was like before you do that 
like try someone local like I remember 
meeting this woman years ago like we 
didn't you know we didn't even 
um no I didn't know who you were really 
I just I remember seeing you and you had 
such a great energy and I know our eyes 
locked and we smiled at each other and 
then I was like she looks so familiar 
and then like somehow I realized it's 
because you were on Steve Harvey yes 
dating you know expert and I was like oh 
my gosh oh my gosh like I gotta find her 
I gotta figure out who she is and you 
know point my friend to her you know 
before she goes on to this Millionaire 
Matchmaker whatever like expect a 
journey so so 
um yeah so that's how I I re-found you 
and realized you know started looking at 
your site and my other I had another 
friend who said you know if I fill it 
out you should fill it out too you know 
I love it I was like okay I'll I'll do 
it I'm you know I was more ready I guess 
like it was all these signs pointing to 
you I guess so 
um 
yes so 
I started researching you and 
um also I needed guidelines and 
guardrails for this online dating stuff 
because yeah you know like I said the 
last time I went on a 
um real date or well 
it was when I was still in my 20s you 
know and 
that was a long time ago and then I you 
know four years ago I actually tried to 
do the online dating and 
it was not a good experience I just shut 
that down I was like I'm just going to 
do my own thing and you know live my 
life and have fun and figure figure it 
out right like I'm done with this I'm 
not doing that again I think I forgot 
that you had tried online dating four 
years before and that was for like a New 
York minute and you're like yeah spice 
was like you gotta practice I was like 
all right I'll practice 
and then I was like I gotta I got bigger 
fish to fryer I got I got other fun 
things to do you know so 
um you know I that kind of went on the 
Wayside and but then I started 
researching you and I found your Ted 
Talk and you know I realized you know 
there was that the you mentioned the two 
questions you ask your client yeah you 
know and it's basically it comes down to 
two lists like what do you want 
to be happy and what you actually need 
to be happy and you know juxtapose it 
together and you realize 
you know I realized oh I must I need to 
do that I need to find someone that you 
know 
that I need to be happy you know and 
especially when when you mention how 
your parents put you know would have 
these things around the house and you 
said 95 of your misery or happiness 
basically is the choice of you know life 
partner you pick yes yes you know these 
seem like common sense and logical but 
you know we don't really 
think about that you know it's it's not 
you know something like you said it's 
not math science yeah you know biology 
whatever it is it's something that we're 
taught culturally familiarly and so 
um 
you know 
the more and more I researched you the 
more and more I wanted to get to know 
you better so I know spice and Ice we we 
had a really long talk with you because 
you know we we wanted to make sure I was 
making the right decision yeah 
um because it is an investment and I 
looked at it as an investment you know I 
I I put so much in all the other 
um 
things that I am involved with Purdue 
and with Adler and with you know my 
friends and my family and I get tenfold 
back but I don't put anything in love 
and I expect 
to hear magically and that's not how it 
works you know it takes work everything 
takes work so yeah 
but I really you know when when we 
started getting into it I really like 
that you had this 360 approach you know 
that it was 
fun because we had that photo shoot and 
you know you allowed me to bring spice 
to that and that was really really great 
oh my God you know makeup and you know 
this professional photo shoot and an 
online profile help writing help which I 
you know like you said every different 
app has a different style or a different 
you know way to present yourself and so 
you know it was just having that help 
and then also the one-on-one uh 
consultations I had with Eileen who you 
paired me with just really really helped 
out because I needed it oh my gosh and 
and you were you were amazing from day 
one and like sugars saying this was such 
a it's so many of you can probably 
relate to this because you come out of a 
divorce that's painful you're scarred 
right it takes a long time to grieve get 
out of the hole maybe you go through 
therapy you do all of the things and 
then maybe you do that little foray into 
online dating you're like oh my God that 
sucked I can't do this again and you 
shut down so for those of you that this 
resonates with right at a certain point 
in order to get different results you 
have to do something different right and 
that's where I applaud you for your 
courage in doing this and I know 
personally like you said we talked for 
an hour just saying kicking the tires is 
this right for you then spice gave me a 
good grilling on her own like how's this 
going to protect my sister is this going 
to work I'm like what I will promise you 
is that we will wrap her in pink sparkly 
bubble wrap and we will not let anything 
bad happen to her during this process 
how it's going to result in a year I 
don't know but I promise that it's going 
to be a better more fun more educational 
experience so the very first time we did 
our you know our session together like 
she was saying we came up with this 
composite sketch of who your high GHQ 
guy was and you knew what the red flags 
were you did your photo shoot and now 
you start working with your coach Eileen 
right and so exactly and she was just 
really patient I think with me because I 
was it was really slow for me I think 
um for some reason I don't know it's 
hard it's hard it's hard I didn't get a 
lot of hit you know hits as I say like 
people didn't swipe on me and because I 
could see people looking at my profile 
but they wouldn't like it you know so I 
was like is there something wrong with 
me am I not presenting right you know 
because I always think like I'm better 
in person than online but I don't know 
you know you're great in both online and 
in person I can attest to that so you 
know so but for men I have I have no 
idea this is this is the first time I 
really invested into it and I just it I 
felt like that duckling and sludge you 
know where Eileen I I think for the 
first few months it was it was 
um fighting my demons you know that I 
had uh to fight and that was a lot with 
my confidence after 
um my divorce my confidence with men in 
that romantic sense you know like I have 
confidence and I know who I am I know 
what I can do I know what I bring to the 
table but as far as men it's like I just 
friend zoned everyone because it was 
just so much easier to keep them at them 
that level so I wouldn't get hurt and to 
to do that with online dating is a is 
you know you're dating like this is 
online dating this is not friend zone 
dating or whatever you know and so 
um Eileen was cute issue is always like 
think of them as friends plus you know 
so 
um that I had to I had to overcome that 
and I realized you know I had so much 
stubbornness keeping me back and and 
Eileen encouraged me to not just see 
that but to do something about it you 
know so I live in downtown Chicago and I 
don't know if you know the phenomenal 
you probably know the phenomena no one 
wants to date outside their 
neighborhoods I know I'm like I don't 
want to have to travel even you know 
three miles 
miles to see someone right and so I 
would I would experiment I would be like 
one to three miles and then close to 10 
years and you know like I was just super 
picky you know like if someone just said 
hi I would be like 
you know ew no 
right and I just I would go into the you 
know I wasn't like a psychotically 
optimistic and and I wouldn't just kind 
of old-fashioned too and I didn't want 
to make the first move I remember spice 
spice sat in one of our um sessions with 
Eileen because we're literally she's 
literally in my DMs right and they're 
like oh what about saying what do you 
want to say to this guy and I'm like 
well I don't know this is so much better 
because she was just like you know 
so that's the problem and I was like I 
don't know what to say to this man you 
know and it's just practice it just 
takes practice and practice and practice 
and I and I literally listened to all 
your I you know attended your IG lives 
if I couldn't I watched them I know you 
know because I I literally took notes 
you know because you you your IG lives 
aren't just 
um 
you know they're so helpful because they 
go into the psychological part you know 
like there was that this one IG live I 
remember you had an expert in and they 
were talking about why people are 
attracted to narcissists and and you 
know as your childhood basically schema 
like 
right you know help helps determine who 
you pick or who you're attracted to you 
know or what love is like you know and 
and so it's just it was just listening 
to those IG lives and listening to also 
the stories of your successes that kind 
of like helped me through it and 
and all your motivation 
well and and listen to what sugar's 
saying right it's at a certain point we 
think we want what we want we want 
someone that lives three miles from us 
we want someone that is this tall or and 
we have these arbitrary things that we 
decide we want and what you did a really 
good job at is what you know is being 
coachable right like okay maybe I'll 
maybe I'll expand my horizons maybe I'll 
expand my age maybe I'll expand my ZIP 
code the miles that I'll search in 
between and even though you may not feel 
like it right you're like I want to do 
something different I want to get 
different results so I'm going to take 
the advice and I'm going to become a 
little bit more expansive and a little 
bit more expansive and you started 
saying hi back to the guys who said hi 
you started proactively messaging people 
even though you're more traditional it's 
like girl I have to do this first right 
it's like yeah we're in the 21st century 
you're a badass corporate executive 
right do you wait for a man to make the 
first move at work hell no oh yeah I'm 
not a corporate executive but I've been 
you know I I am a surrounded a 
biological corporate Executives and I 
know you're very humbled they uh 
they're badasses but um you know it is 
it's like one of those things that I had 
to keep repeating the mottos that you 
and Eileen would say to me it's like it 
only takes one and it's not a matter of 
if it's when and so those are the two 
mottos that kind of stuck with me and 
just like 
encouraging me through the 
you know the lean times you know because 
I was like I I thought oh no this is 
going to be a repeat of four years ago 
like maybe because I can't find anyone 
that like I 
can talk to or you know can seize me or 
likes me for me kind of thing you know 
and 
um there was one IG live that was really 
special because I remember spice and I 
are driving to Purdue and so we couldn't 
I think we you know we logged in and 
watched watched it with you and this 
woman uh Marilyn dollars she was really 
really cute and she was saying she had 
she had met you like 10 years ago and I 
think she was divorced like I can't even 
remember twice 
twice twice and and her her problem was 
like she kept dating younger dudes like 
I remember her saying she dated some 
Italian 
plumber or something like in Italy and I 
was like what like what is going on here 
and then when she um you know and you 
kept saying no like you have to 
you know um your preference should be 
your age plus 10 your age plus 10. and 
she's like okay fine you know I'll do it 
you know and she finally met her 
soon-to-be husband and it was like 
totally bored by him because he was so 
good to her like he was like he brought 
her flowers like he was like we can 
start with drinks but if you want to 
have dinner you know like I made 
reservations you know and that's hard to 
do in Chicago especially now with covet 
you know and and then like you kept 
encouraging to give him a chance until 
like finally he was like it wasn't a 
little I can't even remember what date 
and she was like he's not boring 
right because in the beginning she was 
boring and I love what sugar's saying 
here because the reason she's on this 
show today is she is an inspiring story 
but as she was going throughout the 
dating process she was inspired by our 
client Marilyn dollar who had come in 
with a lot of dating and relationship 
trauma and you know you can go back to 
our igtvs and watch that episode with 
Marilyn who was saying yeah and a lot of 
times guys if you're fix if your Pickers 
are broken good people to you when you 
go out on dates with them can seem 
boring so when a client tells me dude's 
kind of boring I'm like there's not that 
many boring people around I think you're 
looking for dysfunction and drama and 
that's exactly what it was for her and 
so I so at that point you said something 
clicked in your head yes like something 
for some reason and I I don't know if 
it's because again like the last time I 
was dated I was in my 20s and and I for 
some reason I thought men my m46 I was 
40 45 you know I was like I had this 
story in my head that I was telling 
myself like oh Ford 40 year old men 40 
you know don't want to date 
someone their age they want to date 
someone younger more nubile whatever you 
know and I totally totally understand 
you know and for some reason I just like 
hung on to that thought and then after 
that show I just let that go you know I 
was like why can't I date 
someone who's 
[Music] 
um 
divorced and maybe with kids you know 
like why can't I you know I like started 
to think like maybe I I don't have to be 
so rigid in my I'm not in my 20s I don't 
you know have to follow a specific 
path except that this person just has to 
be a really good person you know and so 
and you always said you know your love 
and the lids your pot can come in a 
totally different package you know amen 
so I said you know and I was like why 
can't that 
you know I was like why can't I be open 
to that that it doesn't look like my 
typical person who I usually try to do 
you know and so 
um ever since that happened like this 
like my dating funnel like kind of 
exploded like I was like what is going 
on you know like and I think it's 
because I remember seeing my journal 
because I would journal every day to 
just to you know um track this journey 
and and uh I could tell there was a 
change in my thought process and my 
confidence and my acceptance of certain 
things you know and 
um I had to learn how to juggle like 
talking and video dating and in real 
life dating several minutes a time and 
and you know when you kept saying dating 
funnel I would like put it like fun oh 
you know fun no you know like I love 
that to keep it fun I love that fun oh 
okay guys develop a dating fun oh 
exactly make it fun though and so you 
know and then I I also kept a binder and 
this is my binder I don't know if you 
can see it but it has that fortune 
cookie oh my God you need to make more 
time for romance I have Goosebumps I 
didn't know that 
yeah so this is my binder 
that I put you know everything in that 
all my notes 
um you know all my my journaling 
um you know things that I 
think kind of like a vision board coming 
you know something like that and I had 
to make make it fun because it was 
I I would have clusters I would call 
them clusters of men and the first like 
some of them just didn't work out and so 
and I actually was really 
look I don't want to say heartbroken but 
just disappointed you know and so I had 
to make it fun and I had a friend of 
mine was like why don't you make it like 
a game or something so I was like okay 
so I so I put some pictures of these 
form and I I went on dates but I would 
tell my friends can you guess like who 
friend zoned me uh who showed up in a 
hoodie it's her first date like who is 
so good yeah who's super dull and then 
who you know we had a great sushi date 
and then like Marissa Van Gogh but then 
three days later went back to his 
ex-girlfriend and it was so funny 
because like people would just play that 
game and it was like so much fun and 
most most people didn't get it like they 
didn't actually pick the right you know 
picture to the person but some people 
did 
um because maybe they're more astute I 
have no idea I love how you made it but 
it was fun it was yeah I had to I had to 
make make it fun for me because because 
um when you when you go through those 
clusters of people and you realize no 
this is not the person but you feel bad 
you know I felt bad 
and 
um 
so yes I had to just make it kind of fun 
and funny you know for me so 
and you did and you did a great job at 
that and I don't know that I knew that 
you gamified it I can imagine four 
different photos like match You Know 
Hoodie guy went back to his girlfriend 
guys so that's hilarious and so so the 
beginning of your dating Journey was not 
all love and Roses right there were good 
dates there were bad dates there were 
people that said no there were people 
that ghosted ghosts at the last minute 
so this is part and parcel that didn't 
show up to the date you know and so you 
know but my strategy for that was I 
would pick a place that I wanted to try 
out anyways and then if if they didn't 
respond to a certain time I would just 
invite one of my friends and they would 
show up and we would have a great dinner 
you know so it was it was I always had 
like a backup plan like I never made it 
where I didn't have whether I had to go 
home sad you know I was like I'm just 
I'm still doing you know I'm checking 
out the things I want to check out so I 
love that you had a plan B if he doesn't 
show which didn't happen very often but 
if he doesn't I'm going to be at a great 
place I've got a friend in tow she's in 
the sidelines ready to come out or he 
yep 
and so so now you've built your 
confidence it's not an easy Road you're 
out there you've had this series of 
dates now tell us about tell us about 
how Facebook changed everything for you 
yeah so you know at first I started with 
match and then you know that wasn't you 
know Eileen was like okay we added 
Bumble and then I'm on Facebook all the 
time like I post everything on Facebook 
all the things I do because frankly I 
don't remember 
it's like when people ask me what did 
you do last week I'm like oh let me 
check Facebook you know 
um but you know I figure I use it all 
the time like and they have a dating 
part of it and not a lot of people know 
about it and I don't know how to find 
out about it but I found out about it 
and decided to give it a try 
and I there was a man uh you know one of 
his profiles he had a really really 
refreshing profile and he was like in 
this cockpit of a plane and 
um 
just seemed really really nice and so I 
liked it I don't even think I said 
anything I don't think I said anything 
to him and then he sends me a message 
and I realized he read my profile you 
know because it was a longer message 
than usual and then at the very end he 
says oh by the way I'm an identical twin 
myself 
you're like wait are you punking me like 
you're an identical twin also because I 
was not on his profile that was not on 
his profile and so you know I don't know 
twins in general I think they under they 
understand they have a different bond 
with each other and so 
um I had always you know when I was a 
younger I'd always wanted to date 
identical twins I wanted to marry an 
identical twin you know it just never 
happened but that was always my thought 
it just made sense to me you know 
because we don't have to like explain 
like why I want to hang out with spice 
all the time or you know all this stuff 
so 
um 
it was kind of like okay this this could 
this could work and then I realized he 
was in Wisconsin so I I changed my 
location preference so I cast a lighter 
net you know and then I realized he's 
like a hundred miles away from me from 
downtown Chicago 
and what was your first response to that 
I was like well 
practice 
like he like you know he seems like a 
good guy let's talk to him let's see 
what it what happens if it doesn't work 
out it doesn't work it doesn't work out 
but who cares I think that you know and 
he was just so consistent you know I I 
um we chatted first and then I I wanted 
to do a video date with him and he was 
like yes and then you know we talked 
pretty much every day and he would call 
me every night as well and so he was 
just consistent like in that funnel like 
he just was consistent like he stood out 
stood out he was always supportive like 
he wasn't intimidated by anything that I 
threw at him or it was you know or just 
like said and you know it I realized 
okay like this might this might work and 
and because of her schedules you know 
our first date wasn't for 
two weeks or something actually we 
decided it was going to be on his um 
birthday which is okay no pressure first 
dates on his birthday 
yeah he was like okay well we'll do it 
and so 
I ended up spending four hours together 
with him and my twin was gonna you know 
send a search party because I told her 
oh it's only just be two hours you know 
and where was it was it in Chicago or no 
it was actually in Gurnee it was in 
Gurnee in grenade 
halfway halfway so I actually also have 
a home up in Gurnee and spice and Ken 
living Gurney and my parents and my 
brother who married a Brazilian and has 
a 
um my godson who's six at the time was 
that was his first Halloween so you know 
I was like okay I'll walk with you the 
first few houses but then I have a date 
and they're like what 
like you know wanting to know more about 
him like no I'm not telling you where 
we're going because I don't want you 
guys to show up only exactly you know so 
um yeah it ended up being a really 
really really nice date and he was just 
so like shy and like nervous yeah so was 
I really you know but 
I just really we just really liked each 
other and we weren't afraid to say we 
actually liked each other you know 
I love that and then so that was 
Halloween and now 
he's consistent you talk all the time 
you video chat in between dates and so 
now you've got other people because 
you're a smart dater and so we're like 
you gotta keep your fun all going even 
though Justin seemed like a front runner 
kind of we were all kind of like is this 
too good to be true I know Eileen is so 
funny because she was really she really 
liked him I think she was rooting for 
him from the very beginning for sure 
also we had to just we call it hashtag 
follow the process you know like I call 
it hashtag but you just have to you have 
to kind of go through the motions and go 
through the steps to to just you know 
like you said measure three times and 
cut once oh I love that you know that 
because there's nothing there's no 
substitution for time and people will 
show you know who they are eventually 
and so so 
um he would drive back and forth a 
hundred miles to see him you know and 
then I would I would and so this was 
every two weeks because there were 
schedules you know so and then I would 
go up to 
um actually I'd meet up with in Lake 
Geneva so again I would pick like places 
so you know if it doesn't show up I'm 
gonna have fun 
Sugar's always got Plan B set up 
exactly exactly and so you know in 
December he he asked if I liked Disney 
Disney Disney as in Disney World or 
Disney Disney World and it's like we 
never really talked about that before 
you know unbeknownst to him spice and I 
are like huge Disney freaks you know we 
were even on uh I think last year we 
were right in it in the paper because we 
were considered Pros Disney Pros I love 
that he froze and so I said who doesn't 
you know and he was like well I'm you 
know I want to go in this six day trip 
to celebrate like my career change 
because he's basically been working for 
his company for 20 years so again very 
consistent like I was like who I'm 
dating myself this is very weird you 
know but then he's he's used to go with 
these he's transitioning to be to be 
become a pilot you know for his company 
and so he wanted to celebrate that 
because it's a huge accomplishment you 
know and so I said well two things have 
to happen first before you know 
I ever go on a trip like that is you 
have to meet spice at 10 and we have to 
be exclusive 
and I was like you don't have to answer 
now we can wait till our you know date 
at The Nutcracker this Sunday and just 
think about it you know and so that 
Sunday he was like 
yeah I think I think honestly he thought 
we were all right he thought you were 
his girlfriend already I love this in 
good relationships when we have our 
clients now this is very much a Smart 
dating Rule and I know for so many of 
you that listen to this podcast you know 
that but we talk about exclusivity 
before we're gonna do anything real 
together I want a term I want boyfriend 
girlfriend we're not sleeping together 
before that we're certainly not 
traveling together we're usually not 
going to people's houses and that kind 
of thing so yeah yeah I was like I'll I 
told him actually every man I talked to 
I was like I don't kiss on the first 
date I don't you know like just to let 
you know like this this is this is my 
hard line kind of thing and and most 
most of them right okay fine whatever 
but with Justin I always felt safe 
around him you know safe 
um protected 
cared for you know you always opened the 
door for me he always he'd make 
plates of food for me before him and you 
know I was like what's going on you know 
and he was just that kind of that kind 
of person you know and very affectionate 
and you know that's something I'm very 
affectionate as well 
and we realized I realized like we're 
so very similar you know like we both 
love desserts which is 
a huge thing a lot of men don't like 
dessert so this guy loves desserts like 
I plan my meals dessert first because 
your name is Sugar what do you expect 
exactly exactly and you know he doesn't 
drink I don't drink because I'm allergic 
so and he he likes sweet drinks so like 
the first date we went to the speakeasy 
and he ordered he ordered a pina colada 
and the waiter was that the waiter was 
like we have 700 whiskeys right like we 
don't he's like okay do you have a 
strawberry daiquiri 
they're like no we don't have a blender 
I love a man with confidence who's 
becoming a pilot right who drives 100 
miles to see you and is so comfortable 
in his own skin he's like I would like a 
strawberry daiquiri I don't remember the 
last time I've had a strawberry daiquiri 
it had to be in the 90s exactly exactly 
it's like considered cool you know but 
he's like whatever I don't care like 
this is me you know too and so and he 
loves Disney loves Disney more than I do 
and it's almost more than spice does 
like so we actually went to the Disney 
trip together so that was like six seven 
days and it was just so easy just so 
easy you know like it wasn't 
difficult and it was so funny because 
like people when people 
ask you know oh you know these are like 
once in a lifetime trips no this is 
really one of our first dates 
it's just to go with Disney you know and 
then I really he printed out 800 photos 
so I posted all our photos you know on 
Facebook he printed 800 photos and he 
bought this like 
um custom wood uh Disney at Disney and 
he basically arranged and organized 
these 800 photos like by parks by food 
by Adventure you know to give to me as 
some gifts 
commemorate our first Disney trip 
together you know I mean like who does 
that you know with her boyfriend you 
guys this stuff can happen we can't make 
this stuff up right you love Disney 
he drinks pina coladas and loves Disney 
more and is a very straight man like 
this is amazing 
yeah yeah and he has met all of my so 
many of my friends you know Purdue 
friends downtown friends My Dance Jam 
ladies in the suburbs like 
and he just is so like I I have no 
worries about him you know I can leave 
him and talk to my friend you know he 
can hold his own he's very 
you know he's very nice like people just 
like him you know which is like it's 
just a good thing you know because 
um 
I I had to because my ex wasn't very 
likable you know and I was like that's 
okay I like it you know so it doesn't 
matter but it does make like for him to 
be just so likable was just it's just so 
different for me you know and even my 
brother was so impressed um because like 
every time I talked to him like this guy 
can hang you know like with you like 
wait we just went to the Bridgeton ball 
um here in Chicago and this man I did 
not encourage him to get like with spice 
and I will dress up you know and 
follow Chicago sugar and spice online 
there she they have a thousand friends 
they know everyone Sugar's incredibly 
humble but they she hangs and she's got 
a lot of friends 
so so Justin 
purchases a costume like an actual like 
it's it's like the Bridgeton 
the Duke 
and and this guy is you know he's an 
eagle scout and he's a Freemason too so 
he knows all these like drills or 
something so he did this whole bow and 
like we curtsy like spicy I did this 
Tick Tock curtsy but he just had this 
like whole thing with the staff that he 
had and he actually got the the coveted 
like Queen's note that said like oh 
you've been noticed by the queen and you 
can be picked as a diamond and I was 
like what I love that that's awesome at 
the Bridgerton ball so this guy is the 
bee's knees and it's like God picked him 
for you and sent him straight down and 
tell us what do you you know what are 
you guys talking about for your future 
at this point 
yeah so he leaves for 
um Dallas actually the end of this month 
no end of July for a year to possibly 
three years because for his Pilot 
training and this is something that he's 
been very upfront about since we met 
it's not like oh like oh by the way 
you know and I was there through his 
journey because he had to take like a 
four-hour test you know there's all 
these these groups that you have to go 
through to undergo to get into to be a 
commercial pilot like FAA medical and 
these this and say this for our exam 
this you know all these recommendations 
and interviews you know and so it's not 
a it's not a simple process and I was 
there for him during like the more the 
tail end but he'd been doing this 
process you know by himself 
you know for the for for a long time 
already so 
um 
we realized you know we're I say we're 
not sweating it because first of all 
like we were 
neither of us have any trust issues you 
know with each other I remember the 
first question I asked him was are you a 
jealous person because you know I do a 
lot of things and he was like well 
jealous that you're eating sushi right 
now maybe I'm jealous but he's like I'm 
not he's not I'm like I'm not jealous 
about you know like I'm so worried about 
your career and and things like that so 
no no trust issues there and you know 
you a year goes by really really fast I 
mean it's been you know what two years 
now since covid it's been a year since 
you worked with us and it's been a year 
since I've worked with you you know I 
remember 
not ex like I had zero expectations like 
I was like them doing this for me I'm 
putting myself out there you know if I 
meet someone great if I don't you know 
at least I know the rules and exactly 
and what to do and what this you know 
things like that so and just it's more 
about me and I think like we're in this 
together and we also know that we have 
you and Eileen so he knows about you 
guys like I told him we're gonna have 
dinner or you realize 
and he's just he's I remember he said 
you know was I your second choice and I 
said no you were the best choice exactly 
oh you were the best choice I love that 
that gave me goosebumps he was so the 
best choice and you're right I mean Andy 
and I when we were dating we had a year 
apart and when he was getting his MBA 
and I was working at Arthur Anderson in 
Chicago and the year flew by and to your 
point it's like every other weekend one 
of us I would go to Champaign to the 
University of Illinois where he was or 
he would come to Chicago and suddenly 
and that just made it and we kept in 
touch by phone and it was easy we tried 
to talk every day even if it was for 
five or ten minutes right just touching 
base I'm thinking of you and suddenly 
before I knew it he was back home yeah 
yeah and I work remotely so I've 
actually worked remotely for 20 years so 
when covet hit it wasn't even like a you 
know with work but so it's it's for me 
for us it's something that we can work 
through I mean we are I think gonna miss 
each other but it also helps that 
because he was he is in Milwaukee so 
it's almost like we're doing a long 
distance kind of thing but we we strive 
to like meet in the middle and always 
like 
assure each other that we're there for 
each other and things like that and you 
know 
he know he knows that I have like you as 
my guardian angels of love than in the 
background to make sure that you know I 
because this is I haven't had a 
relationship in eight years and I need 
to know how to navigate that you know 
there are things Eileen helps me with 
because there are things I don't even 
think about 
you know especially because he has three 
three children too and so like how do I 
navigate that you know because I've 
never really 
done that before either so you know and 
it just it just works out 
oh my gosh so so we can all take away 
from this he is the lid to your pot 
she's nodding her head I think so yes 
I think it is he is he's he's he is 
just really a good hearted person 
um and I need that you know I need that 
I may not have wanted that 
but I need that you need that and kudos 
to you for expanding your boundaries and 
for building your confidence and for 
facing your demons and all of those 
things are tough and you guys it's it's 
all great we're on this podcast and 
we're talking about it but when you're 
in the trenches going through it and to 
your point when you hear the No and when 
you don't get the swipe and when you're 
ghosted it can challenge the very best 
of us right it's like what's wrong with 
me am I not good enough am I ever gonna 
find love and you powered through the 
monkey mind and all of the things that 
could have brought you down and when you 
I loved that it was when you heard 
Maryland dollars badass interview like I 
found love I dated someone who's older 
than me and he was thought it was boring 
and now he's the one and that was like 
an inflection point for you where you're 
like well if she can do this I can 
do this right Maryland in her late 50s 
or in her mid-50s at that point so well 
Justin's actually four years younger 
than me 
oh my God mayor's gonna be jealous 
she'll be like do you got the younger 
guy 
so I even not even surprised me because 
I was like you're 42 like 41 you know 
like what what like I like do you 
realize I'm 45. it's like I realize and 
I don't care yeah age is just a number 
and so that's the other big thing and I 
know when sugar started she was like 
okay I was convinced in my own mind that 
men are only going to want to date 
younger right and here the lid to her 
pot you know her her flight Captain 
Justin is four years younger so when you 
start to shed all of these constraints 
and these kind of shackles that we put 
on ourselves and these negative beliefs 
and suddenly when you get the fortune 
cookie fortune that romance you need to 
spend some more time on romance and you 
listen to your gut and you do the things 
that are going to make you do things 
differently so you get different results 
I mean you've just done an incredible 
job and you know the universe is just 
has your back and why wanted this to 
happen for you 
well thank you you know and and um 
I learned so much 
um 
that 
you know some of these things like I 
said like they seem they seem common 
sense you know but the first thing I 
remember you said in your Instagram 
lives and even when we started was get a 
Google Voice number because it was 
Safety First and I was like man I wish I 
knew that you know because 
I was like I don't want to give out my 
real number phone number totally like 
that and you know and then even with 
this whole covert thing like I think 
kovid was a godsend in this dating world 
because you have to video date you have 
to like it it cuts down and accelerates 
like the the 
cutting process basically you know it's 
like first you realize are they do they 
look like their profile you know do they 
post a picture like 10 years old 20 
years old you know like do they have all 
their teeth 
and you said you know you're always on 
10 minutes can't hide crazy so 
absolutely you know this is the video 
dating and that's how I mean with this 
whole hybrid thing in covid like that's 
how it's gonna be and if people do that 
it really cuts down it just it just is 
eliminates 
time like wasted time I think and an 
effort and you know I realized 
early on or maybe like a little bit 
later that I just needed to trust the 
process you guys are like the subject 
matter experts you know I may be a 
consultant or you know work for a 
consulting firm but I don't know you 
know like this is not my forte this is 
not my 
um you know uh strong strong points and 
the you and Eileen have been doing this 
and have success stories and have 
um you know good things to share and I 
just had to hang I just had to let go of 
my stubbornness I just you just have to 
let go of that your ego in a little bit 
you know a little bit and just be like 
you know what 
and so like I said 
get a binder 
reminder you know and take notes do it 
what you need to do 
um journaling really helped because I 
actually to get ready for this I read 
through my my journal you know and I I 
saw the progress like I saw the 
um the change in my the clicks you know 
that just were like unlocking the 
possibilities in my head you know and so 
I really want to thank you and Eileen 
and Smart dating Academy because it 
really changed my life I don't think I 
would have been able to do this by 
myself I'm you know at all 
um and I just you know I'm glad I met 
you and I'm glad I you know got a friend 
for life 
Eileen as well and yeah and spice spice 
and I thank you because this is really 
as a twin you know we realized we don't 
want to be alone like I knew I didn't 
want to be alone you know and you know 
she's been married 20 20 
um three years now no 22 years 
um this this past week actually and you 
know she chose well like she was able to 
choose well and and I needed to realize 
like I can choose again and I can you 
know and if I choose wrong I can choose 
a good you know and so this process and 
this 
um 
really helped me 
get over myself get over you know my 
demons 
um and help me find love so which I 
honestly wasn't really expecting it at 
all 
oh this is so amazing I have total 
goosebumps you can choose again yes you 
can choose again just because any of you 
didn't choose well the first time you 
get to choose again and you get to do 
this your way and sugar if somebody's 
sitting there listening to this episode 
right now what what's you know your best 
tidbit you can give to them 
thank you 
you know for I I always tell people to 
follow your Instagram you know I I now I 
realize like I just talk about you all 
the time 
like we just had this Purdue women's 
Network Conference and I was like you 
know because people 
women are curious I'm sorry men but like 
women you know their relationships are a 
big uh 
are a big thing you know that that we 
don't talk about really you know uh uh 
honestly or or or 
we don't have a guy right we don't have 
a guide and so or an expert and so when 
I say oh like I just you know are you 
doing Elite dating coach and these are 
the things like you have to follow like 
first of all like follow Instagram from 
our dating Academy on Instagram you know 
check out her website I'd show them the 
pictures on your website I'm like look 
at this dude before and then look what 
they did with him after I mean they're 
like they're like whoa she's like legit 
and I was like yeah like it's legit like 
I wouldn't do anything that's not legit 
you know what I mean and so you know 
that that's my biggest takeaway and also 
it 
I don't know for me it was my time you 
know this is my time and I realized I 
needed to do something about it like I I 
I uh 
like I said like I give I give a hundred 
percent to all these other causes that I 
do and but the the thing that you know 
you you hire a coach with your training 
for a marathon right or or the 11 you 
know or just 
um 5K or something like that right you 
get some training but like with this 
love thing 
there's really no play you know no one 
knows where to go to get training for 
that and and a guy you know a map and so 
I think I think if you do it you know 
decide to do it 
um do it right follow the process you 
know really listen and it's faster if 
you just the faster you just let go of 
your stubbornness the faster I think 
things just click in your head and just 
and and miracles can happen so oh I love 
that Sugar you're so generous and 
beautiful inside and out and thank you 
so much for sharing your journey and I 
couldn't be happier for you and we love 
you and thank you for being here today 
thank you Bella I really appreciate it 
thank you so much for having me oh my 
gosh I'm honored oh you're beautiful and 
guys we're gonna have a pic you should 
be able to click in the show notes and 
look at a page that'll feature photos of 
this dynamic duo sugar and her man 
Justin and then you'll probably see 
sugar and spice as well so we have lots 
of surprises for you on the page along 
with sugar segment where her photos were 
premiered on ABC TV so she's just 
getting started so sugar we wish you 
everything that is good and life and 
love and may this just be the beginning 
of a lifetime of love for you 
