[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love welcome back 
smart daters I am literally jumping out 
of my skin with excitement to share this 
amazing guest with you someone whose 
work I have fangirled over for months in 
fact quite frankly I have to tell you 
guys even before we hit record on this 
podcast I had to talk to her for 20 
minutes just because I wanted to get to 
know this Phenom so today I have with me 
who's going to answer all of your 
questions the love doctor Dr Terry 
orbuck she is a world-renowned 
relationship expert author speaker 
therapist date and relation coach and 
distinguished professor at Oakland 
University Research professor at 
University of Michigan she is a prolific 
author a beautiful human being inside 
and out she is a wife she is a mother 
she is a gentle soul 
Terry welcome to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast oh thank you Bella that 
was such an amazing introduction I am 
honored to be here today and talk with 
you and your listeners oh my gosh I am 
so excited you guys Terry has written 
how many books have you written well I 
have written three popular books a lot 
of academic books that nobody reads 
Bella except my academic colleagues and 
my husband hasn't even read them so I 
like to say three popular books 
well that's amazing well tell us and I 
know your books are great and I have one 
of them sitting on my desk right now 
called the secrets to surviving your 
children's love relationships and we're 
gonna get into that one at the end and I 
might tell you why it's of personal 
interest to me because you know I might 
have an 18 year old daughter and I might 
have a 14 year old son and they might be 
developing into prolific data so Terry 
tell us one of the things I love about 
you and there's so many things is that 
everything you do is rooted in data it's 
rooted in research it's rooted in 
science as much as what you and I can do 
so tell us about you and this amazing 
research project that has been following 
doing the same couples for over 30 years 
amazing it is a wonderful project Bella 
I'm really a scientist at my core and so 
I have this NIH National Institutes of 
Health Project which is funded by the 
national government and as you said 
we've been following the same 
373 couples now for over 30 years and we 
continue to follow them so I am 
continuing to 
submit these applications to the federal 
government to follow them into the 
future it's the largest project of its 
kind and we interview them face to face 
both as individuals and as couples 
46 of the couples have divorced which is 
actually the national average the 
divorce rate in the United States and I 
always like to say 
71 of those people who got divorced have 
found love again so I think that's a 
wonderful optimistic statistic from this 
study so it's a great project it's large 
it's 
really has these great data so that I 
can write the popular books and that 
they are science based for everyone as 
well so science should be fun that's 
what I'm all about trying to make 
science fun for all of us yeah and fun 
and comprehensible right so we can 
actually take from all this amazing 
research and apply it to our own lives 
so if you had to tell us as you followed 
this is it 373 couples you said correct 
yeah yes and 46 of them divorced so 
let's say of the 46 that divorce what 
were let's say the top three reasons 
that they divorced 
good question well the number one reason 
is what I like to say frustration and 
frustration is the difference between 
what you expect to happen in your 
relationship those should statements 
that we all have in our mind we all have 
them 
and the realities of our relationship 
so when there's a big difference between 
what we expect and what we get we become 
frustrated and frustration eats away at 
happiness in a relationship and the 
great thing about my study Bella is that 
I'm able to see when people have these 
unrealistic expectations about their 
relationship or relationships in general 
I can see happiness decline when the 
realities of their relationships don't 
match those unrealistic expectations so 
for example many people think that good 
relationships have no conflict or good 
relationships have little conflict and 
that really isn't the case as we've been 
following these couples over time it's 
really all about how you handle the 
disagreements not whether you have 
conflict and in fact there were 12 
couples in my study in year one who said 
we never fight we never have conflict 
none of those couples were still 
together in year three 
oh absolutely having these I know 
so having these unrealistic expectations 
can really lead to unhappiness and that 
breaks couples apart over time so that 
that's what I say is the number one 
thing that leads to divorce 
second frustration is what I call 
affirmation 
the degree to which you make your 
partner feel special seen cared for 
valued and feel loved 
when you feel like you're really loved 
and seen by your partner 
you report or couples are significantly 
two times less likely to divorce over 
time 
so when a spouse says yes my partner 
makes me feel valued special loved cared 
for that couple is two times less likely 
to get divorced over time and by the way 
that is more significant for men than it 
is for women 
not surprising not surprising not 
surprising right not surprising what I 
found is that men crave affirmation from 
their Partners much more and they need 
it much more to feel okay and happy in 
their relationships than women do 
and at first this was actually 
surprising to me Bella I'll admit 
honestly it was surprising because I 
thought it was going to be the opposite 
that it would be more important for 
women than it was for men but what I 
found is that men don't get that 
affirmation 
feel loved valued cared for outside of 
their romantic relationship whereas 
women we get it a lot we get it from our 
friends you just gave me such 
affirmation in your introduction but we 
get it from our sisters our best friends 
our mothers our children our neighbors 
even the stranger when I walk into a 
coffee shop and says oh Terry you know 
the Barista says Terry you know wow you 
just got a new haircut I like it right 
but men don't get that and so they crave 
it need it for the happiness in a 
relationship 
so it's extremely important 
huge science-based strategy to wake up 
every single day and give your romantic 
partner affirmation and you can do that 
through words or through behaviors you 
can tell them you love them you're great 
you're wonderful I love you more now 
than I've ever loved you 
or you can show them through a behavior 
and action you can hug them you can make 
them a favorite dessert turn on the 
coffee pot in the morning fix their 
computer put gas in their car anything 
that shows your partner that they are 
seeing because we all want to feel value 
I will tell you that my husband every 
morning 
brings me a hot cup of coffee in bed and 
usually gives me a hug right after he 
puts the coffee on the nightstand like 
how and he doesn't have to say to me wow 
you look just as beautiful in the 
morning after eight hours of sleep with 
the sleep mask on and your hair all must 
up as you did last night at the Gala No 
it's behaviors and that makes me every 
morning feel loved and seen and when 
he's out of town I miss that and then I 
tell him like this is so special that 
you do this for me all of the time so 
it's an amazing way to affirm your 
partner and I tell them every day this 
means the world to me you start my day 
off in the perfect way like how can the 
day go badly right and so those 
strategies work you guys listen to this 
and even if you are manifest infesting 
your soul mate even if you are going on 
a date this evening if you are 
corresponding with people online right 
now if you can find a way to affirm this 
person even though they're not yet your 
partner find someone in your life to 
affirm today you are doing what's it's 
God's work it's crucial work it is 
putting more love in the world you are 
seeing someone and you are telling them 
what's good about them instead of just 
noting it in File 13 in your brain and 
walking on you will change the course of 
that person's day 
totally I love all of what you just said 
Bella is so very important to put love 
and kindness out into the world and by 
the way there is an added bonus when you 
give affirmation to others you are more 
likely to get it in return it's called 
The Law of reciprocity in Psychology 
that when we affirm others not 
immediately but over time that person 
will affirm us as well so there is that 
added bonus not only a general wonderful 
thing to add kindness and love in the 
world and change other people's lives 
but you will get it in return as well 
wow it's like you get what you give 
essentially the law of reciprocity I 
like that 
um that's amazing and and another thing 
that you said that's so important about 
frustration and the expectations of no 
conflict in relationships right and so 
much of that comes from Harlequin 
romances and and Hollywood and Bollywood 
and social media but expecting no 
conflict is such a Surefire way for 
disenchantment in any relationship a 
romantic relationship a friendship 
whenever you have two human beings 
together that are trying to have an 
authentic relationship there will be 
friction 
right with employees I run a company you 
teach students and the way we teach 
conflict both in my house as well as at 
you know at our team at Smart dating 
Academy and in my extended families 
conflict is good as long as you have 
rules of engagement around it 
de-escalate it don't scream and yell at 
each other have a drink of water come 
back to it in 30 minutes and most 
importantly look at conflict as a way to 
get you to a better spot in your 
relationship you can look at that if you 
imagine your relationship with anybody 
as climbing a mountain and it's this 
beautiful never-ending mountain and 
every time you have a conflict you use 
that metaphorically and mentally to say 
this conflict and the resolution of it 
effectively is going to make us more 
authentic with each other understand 
each other better we're going to get to 
a better place what's bad about that 
look at conflict as a good thing as a 
good thing and you grow that's what I 
hear you saying is that you will grow 
and another thing that I found in my 
study that's so relevant to what you're 
saying Bella is that people need to 
address the small things that happen in 
their romantic relationships I think 
we've learned again an unrealistic 
expectation to pick your battles but I 
actually found in my study following 
these couples the opposite if you wait 
to pick your battles because you think 
something is too small or you don't want 
to bring it up because you might have 
conflict it grows inside and where it 
may have been easy to deal and address 
with he doesn't put the toilet seat back 
down or she doesn't roll the toothpaste 
well or whatever a small thing right 
right people always talk about in my 
study but if you don't address it at 
that point it grows and it gets bigger 
and bigger and then it's really 
difficult to unpack you don't love me 
you don't hear me we're not right for 
one another and so I think couples also 
need to understand to bring up small 
things not to just pick your battles so 
that they can get resolved as you're 
saying that we can grow we can learn how 
to address our differences 
oh I love that so much and you're so 
right about picking your battles if you 
are constantly pushing down the little 
things you become a pressure cooker and 
at some point it's going to burst open 
in this sort of icky everything comes 
out uncontrolled and your feelings are 
so much more escalated than they should 
be so that's really good advice and what 
one thing that works with my husband is 
you know what would make me so happy is 
if you would roll the toothpaste or if 
it would make me so happy if you would 
pick your towel up off the carpet even 
though I've told you this 850 
000 times in the last 25 years it would 
make me so happy if you did that with a 
smile and so much of you know when we're 
women we're doing multiple things I 
always say we're like octopuses or 
octopi and we've got eight plates up in 
the air and we're juggling so many 
things and it's like oh can you just do 
this I've told you so many times Instead 
try and say it from a place of love 
because men to your point need 
affirmation ostensibly more than women 
do and if you put it in the terms of it 
would make me so happy if right because 
they know if Mom is Happy everybody's 
happy right and you've basically told 
him this would make me happy go do it 
versus I hate when you don't do this 
it's just a little Nuance but it works 
wonders in our house that one helps you 
go for it I love that Bella and I 
totally agree with you and is focusing 
on the positive and what you need and 
using your I statements which are all 
wonderful and another thing that I found 
in my study which is a relevant to what 
you said as well is that when we point 
out the negative to men and this came 
from the males in my study when you 
point out the negative or what you're 
not doing right they assume that 
everything is wrong they're to blame and 
they become less positive and less happy 
over time so just switching it to like 
you said your eyes statement this makes 
me happy and what they can do rather 
than what they're not doing because 
they're fixers they want to fix it but 
it's all them is change it to what you 
said because that was another really 
interesting finding in my study men 
don't like negatives men don't like the 
problems that we bring up instead 
refocus it reframe it 
oh I love that so much and sometimes a 
useful tool for what Terry's saying is 
imagine the man in your life as a 
seven-year-old boy on the playground 
who wants to please his teacher or 
please his mom or please his classmates 
and he wants the Atta boys and when you 
change your phraseology around focusing 
on the positive I really loved it when 
you picked up the towel that was amazing 
you know what because with that positive 
reinforcement guess what he'll probably 
pick it up again tomorrow and right I'm 
just asking for a friend not that my 
husband would leave wet towels on the 
floor 
so 
um so super 
um super interesting so tell you know 
in your work Terry as a dating coach and 
as a professor and all the amazing 
things that you do what do you think is 
the number one factor that leads singles 
to finding love well I can tell you from 
my work as a date coach and as a 
professor but I can also tell you in my 
long-term study because we continue to 
follow the individuals who experience 
divorce and who experience the loss 
death of a spouse the number one 
predictor of those people finding love 
is that they are able to let go of the 
strong emotional baggage connected to a 
previous relationship so what does that 
mean that means when people in my study 
were single said I don't feel much of 
anything toward my ex 
or I'm neutral I don't feel strongly 
positive I don't feel strongly negative 
I'm not pining away I'm not really 
pissed at them again when they said I'm 
neutral 
again statistically they were two times 
more likely to find a happy healthy 
relationship going forward 
so it's very important I know we all 
have emotional baggage we all do that we 
have some emotion connected to the past 
but I'd like to compare it to going on 
an airplane right you get to the gate 
and there are some people I love these 
people who get on an airplane and only 
have a briefcase or a purse or a little 
small bag that's not me by the way Bella 
me neither me neither I mean right they 
go right onto the plane so they have low 
emotional baggage they're not strongly 
connected to the past they go right 
forward and meet somebody new or they're 
onto the plane but those people who have 
a large bag it's overflowing and then 
the person at the gate says stop you 
cannot go forward 
that's a great metaphor for people who 
are still strongly emotionally connected 
to the past we need to let go of the 
anger we need to let go of the wanting 
the frustration the blaming ourselves in 
order to be fully present not compare 
current people or future people to the 
past and fully move forward to a new 
happy healthy relationship so that's 
what I found in my study and I've also 
seen that in my experience with students 
and my work as a date coach a marriage 
and family therapist as well and I know 
that we can talk about how to do that 
but it's that was going to be my next 
question could you leave the bubble over 
my head because so many people have been 
through trauma things that you know 
death of their soulmate they've been 
through you know 
infidelity of every kind you know 
physical infidelity emotional infidelity 
Financial infidelity right and how do 
you is there how do you do that so many 
people come to the dating world and you 
can tell they're still angry even though 
they might have been through years of 
therapy like is there something that we 
can do to reduce to get to that place 
that you're talking about where you are 
at least net neutral to your past right 
well first of all it is very challenging 
and I have to recognize exactly what 
you're saying it is difficult it is hard 
it is normal that you come and you do 
have that emotional baggage that anger 
that frustration that disappointment 
that yourself or others so I just have 
to say that people are not alone 
it's not just you I think that there are 
many strategies but my favorite strategy 
Bella is what I call reassigning blame 
so when we experience a relationship 
breakup or a divorce we tend to blame 
other partner he had an affair she 
wasn't emotionally available 
she you know wasn't this whatever it may 
be 
or we blame ourselves I wasn't ready I 
could have done this I should have done 
that 
when we blame other partner we hold on 
to the anger and the frustration and 
when we blame ourselves we hold on to 
the sadness the pining the desire to 
have that person back in our life so 
what we want to do is reassign the blame 
and make we blame statements they're 
called relationship blame statements and 
there's so much great research to 
support this so if we can say my 
relationship undid because we weren't 
compatible because we were too young 
when we got married because we had 
different relationship goals we didn't 
know how to communicate or handle 
conflict well 
when we blame the relationship for us 
you can even hear it in my voice when I 
make a we statement that it lets go of 
the anger 
or the disappointment or sadness or 
pining and desire 
and so that's a really interesting 
strategy that we can use if we want to 
let go of the password if we have to let 
go of the past and I have clients write 
down four or five statements and say 
them every day because what we want to 
try to do from a psychological point of 
view is change our brain weights change 
what we automatically think and that 
takes at least 21 days of doing a 
different habit of doing a different 
routine so writing saying seeing those 
we blame statements over 21 days I even 
tell clients to do it right before you 
go to bed because then you have the 
benefit of eight seven six hours 
whatever hours you get of sleep 
of your brain focusing on 
that new brain habit 
so two times a day for 21 days we 
statements you will find that you will 
let go of that emotional baggage so 
that's one strategy let me ask you a 
question right on that because I love 
this so much and I want so let's say my 
partner 
cheated on me 
how do I turn that into a restatement 
and it is very difficult because we want 
to blame that present right my partner 
did the infidelity I didn't 
but think about what you want or need 
and what your partner wants or needs we 
were not compatible in our view of 
commitment we had different ideas about 
what it takes to have a happy loving 
relationship we wanted different things 
from each other 
so when we do that we let go of that 
anger then I know we have if there's 
been a betrayal or an infidelity and 
there are betrayals the trails are when 
somebody breaks our trust and there are 
many betrayals that occur in 
relationships only one of which is 
infidelity right right right and that's 
such a great poignant example right 
because so often we want to as you said 
when we blame the other person we feel 
angry when we blame ourself and we turn 
that mirror inward we feel sadness and 
sadness and anger they suck right like 
let's just call a spade a spade those 
are not emotions any of us really want 
to be feeling 
um I I don't know if one is better or 
worse than the other they're both you 
know 
right they're both detrimental to us 
when we feel them but also think about 
going out on a first date with somebody 
who's really angry or really sad that's 
not the person who you're going to have 
or want a second date with 
so turn that around if you are angry if 
you haven't let go of that or you are 
sad pining away and you haven't let go 
of that you are most likely not going to 
be the person that somebody wants a 
second date with either 
exactly because if you put that anger or 
that sadness out there people are 
looking for that guys they are looking 
for that on the first second third 
fourth fifth date like are you angry are 
you bitter are you still sad about the 
loss of your loved one right so we're 
very our antenna and I are tuned in for 
those things from a self-protection 
standpoint I want to make sure if I go 
out on a date with the man that has lost 
his wife in the last few years my first 
question is is he is he through the 
tunnel yet he'll never get over it but 
is he in a good place so what are my 
antennae looking for I'm holding up my 
red flag any signs of sadness or not 
having walked through the tunnel right 
the only way to get through something is 
to get through it and to walk through it 
right there's no skirting it exactly and 
it doesn't mean you have to forget it 
like you're saying when a widow 
experienced the loss of a of a romantic 
partner you don't have to forget that 
person you don't have to forget or not 
grieve or even come birthday our 
anniversary or get that person but like 
you said get through the tunnel get 
through the tunnel yeah absolutely and 
now speaking of 
relationships and now let's flip that 
let's flip the switch here let's say we 
found someone and we think oh my gosh I 
think I call them you know the lid to 
your pot and that's kind of our you know 
let's say that you think you found the 
lid to your pot and maybe you've been on 
15 dates or 20 dates or you've been 
exclusive with this person for six to 12 
months Terry in your vast experience is 
there a way to ascertain is this person 
the one 
I think the answer is yes but there is a 
way okay there are three questions that 
I think you want to ask yourself 
first is about trust do you trust this 
person and do you have a trusting 
relationship because when we look at 
relationships fella over time trust is 
the number one essential vital most 
important ingredient to a happy healthy 
relationship if you don't have trust you 
can't have commitment you can't have 
love and you can't last 
for a long time so trust is really 
important and we're talking about and 
when we're talking about trust we're 
saying that this person is open and 
honest and has my best interests at 
heart and they're predictable that's I 
think the definition of trust in the 
academic world and I think so there are 
questions that you can ask yourself is 
this person reliable do they have my 
best interests at heart 
um and it's not that they only think of 
me but let's say we're going out for 
dinner and they know that I'm a 
vegetarian do they pick his Steakhouse 
right 
or if they know I'm you know having 
money issues this week or month do they 
pick the most expensive thing to do when 
we're both paying so they're thinking of 
me and my best interests and it's so 
very important and if you can't decipher 
that I encourage people to have what I 
call a trust chat which means you sit 
down with that person and you talk about 
what's your definition of commitment 
what is trust to you uh what do you 
think about infidelity 
right so you want to have a trust chat 
so that's question one question two is 
do we have the same key life values 
and so I'm not talking about similarity 
and hobbies or interests because as I 
have followed people over time in my 
study that does not predict staying 
together but what does predict the 
number one thing that predicts people 
staying together that was going to be my 
number three when you ask number three I 
forgot to get to it is similarity in key 
life values underlying values like the 
importance of Children and Family 
the role of Faith or spirituality in my 
life or the importance of my career and 
work and balance between Career and 
personal 
and you need similarity in those key 
life values in order to predict whether 
or not this is the right person for you 
and then finally number three question 
number three 
is how do you do in terms of handling 
conflict and stress together 
as I said before those couples who 
handle stress and conflict well together 
are more likely to stay together and 
happy over time 
wow I love it so the three points you 
guys if you're taking notes like I am 
trust values and how do we handle 
conflict right that's your measure to 
see if someone is the one notice how she 
didn't say we have sex six times a day 
you might 
good on you 
long-term love is fueled by these things 
a relationship that's based on trust 
that's based on similarity and values 
and what you want out of life and how 
you navigate conflict because remember 
earlier in this chat we Dr Terry said 
the 12 couples out of her 373 in the 
beginning that said they never fought 
they never had conflict 12 for 12 are 
divorced 
exactly bananas and you know people 
Bella always asked me clients and others 
well you know we've been dating for 
three four months we don't have any 
conflict we have never never disagreed 
right so I encourage you to think about 
instead stressful situations 
like when you're going to the airport 
and you and your partner have a flat 
tire how do you and your partner handle 
that when you miss your plane 
when something else stressful happens a 
parent gets sick you get coveted for 
example and both of you have to 
quarantine how do you handle those 
stressful situations because what we 
know studies show is that couples who 
don't handle stress or conflict well now 
don't handle it well later 
so look for those kinds of situations if 
that's your response or comment to we 
don't have conflict or differences look 
for stressful situations and how do you 
handle those together 
um I love that I tell my clients your 
issues when you're dating usually are 
your issues when you're married as well 
so if you're not handling conflict well 
ladies and gents in the first six months 
and somebody's throwing the microwave 
across the room or screeching out of the 
driveway might be a bit of a red flag 
how do we handle conflict can we 
navigate it because you will miss that 
plane somebody will get covered you'll 
both get covered you'll both have 
important meetings and the child is sick 
like how do you navigate do you turn 
towards each other 
and health and support and figure out 
together are you solution oriented or do 
we turn into making the other person the 
victim right and that's super 
destructive and hard to do now 
I had this little question that popped 
into my head as well as I said okay if 
we're not having six sex six times a day 
haha but truly Terry 
how does one 
decide or ascertain am I in lust or am I 
in love 
how do we do that how do we know if it's 
lost or love that's a good question 
right and lust is fueled by sexual 
hormones and sex and arousal and love is 
fueled by support and friendship and 
intimacy as we said 
so I have a Ted Talk on this exact topic 
and what I talk about is first by the 
way you can have both in long-lasting 
relationship you can have less and love 
but let's say we're in a relationship 
and we're dating and we want to know is 
it less stories of love and I think that 
there are four signals that you want to 
look for 
first when we're in love we want the 
people that are important to us to 
connect with our partner and we want our 
partner to connect and like the people 
that are important to us 
so if they were in love we want a 
romantic partner to meet our friends and 
our best friends and we want them to 
spend time with those people and we want 
those people to like those people in our 
life when we're in last we are not so 
interested in that Bella we may not care 
or we may not even think about it 
I love that one cute four signal second 
when we're in love we talk in we terms 
so let's say somebody asks us what did 
you do last weekend Bella and you say 
well we went to the movies we went for a 
walk we went shopping we had a we went 
on a hike outside 
that signals up but if you told me Bella 
well I went to the movies and then I 
went out to dinner and on Saturday I 
went for a hike 
that signals non-love or lust 
so listen to your language because 
that's the second signal the third 
signal is that when we're in love we 
want to share and tell this person 
personal information about ourselves 
sometimes it's information that we 
haven't ever even told anyone else 
so if you feel that urge like you want 
to tell this person deep dark secrets 
about your childhood or about what's 
going on what's is you your best friends 
you want to share and reveal 
that's love and if you again don't 
really want to do that 
don't really want to talk about you and 
the core of you instead you might be 
talking about politics religion Sports 
that's more likely to be lust 
and then final Q or signal number four 
is that when people in are in love 
they're interdependent meaning a change 
in one person creates a change in 
another person and when you're going to 
make a change you want to go to your 
partner and ask them how they feel about 
it so let's say you get a new job in a 
different state 
do you call that partner and say Hey you 
know I have to move to Minnesota right 
what do you think about that feel that 
work 
but if you just accept the job and don't 
even call don't even recognize that that 
person may also change because of your 
move move lust not love 
so we're talking about connectiveness 
we language 
uh uh revealing parts of self and 
interconnectedness equals long not lust 
ladies and gentlemen I mean I'm like you 
know gems are dropping my pen is flying 
here so I can take all these notes to 
put in the show notes for you guys I 
mean this is amazing these are some 
um like like I said the gems the 
diamonds like I hope you listen to this 
again and again because 
Dr orbook knows what she's talking about 
you guys I couldn't I'm as my husband 
will say when we're in such agreement 
with each other like I know it's like he 
calls it violent agreement I'm in 
violent agreement with everything you 
say I don't know why he calls it violent 
but it's like so passionately we're so 
simpatico into it he's like we're in 
violent agreement which is hilarious 
because he's like the least violent 
person 
um you've met so I promised at the 
beginning of this we would come back to 
your new book called secrets to 
surviving your children's love 
relationships tell me tell us a little 
bit I mean I know what it is because 
it's on my desk dog eared but tell 
um tell our dear listeners what is this 
book about and what motivated you to 
write it thank you Bella um and this is 
one of my favorite books because you 
know as a parent we want what's best for 
our children amen I mean it's that 
biological situation that happens when 
we have children we want what's best for 
them and study after study science after 
science shows that happy healthy 
relationships are vital as I said 
essential to our children's health and 
well-being 
but as I talk to parents all across the 
world they didn't know how to start 
conversations with their children about 
healthy relationships skills that are 
important all the things that we've been 
talking about today Bella thank you 
um they didn't know how to start those 
conversations or what to tell their 
children 
so that's why I wrote the book it really 
is for parents who want their children 
to have happy healthy relationships it's 
all about having these meaningful 
important conversations and discussions 
with our children how to start them how 
to do them what to say during those 
conversations and how to model happy 
healthy relationships in front of your 
children because we set the tone 
us even if we're not in a romantic 
relationship we set the tone in all of 
our relationships how we interact and 
behave for how our children will do an 
experience their relationships 
so that's what the book is about and I I 
mean I love it it's my favorite book 
it's amazing 
thank you 
it's amazing and I know what really kind 
of hit me between the eyes it's it's 
exactly what you said in when we 
were talking about how do you know if 
you're really in love with somebody and 
your first answer was do I trust this 
person do we have a trusting 
relationship and you said it's the same 
thing with your child right do you have 
a trusting relationship after I read 
that part of your book I asked my son 
Max who's quirky and he's such a bro and 
like a cool dude 14 year old like 
graduating eighth grade like do you 
trust me and he's like 
I guess like 
you guess okay right well there was that 
one time where you did this right 
because he's that little Grudge holder 
and he remember when you told so and so 
is Mom what I told you I said I've 
apologized for that seven times Max and 
I'll apologize again you're right I 
shouldn't have said that to that Mom 
that was one thing but how about the 99 
999 others and he's like yeah I mean 
besides that I think we're good right so 
it's and I said you know what I trust 
you too 
oh I love that Bella because those are 
the kinds of conversations that we want 
and need to have with our kids I mean 
just sitting down and saying what you 
said to your son is amazing wonderful 
and I love it because it's going to 
build trust it's going to show your son 
that trust is important in a 
relationship that you think it's 
important and by the way as we said it 
is the number one important thing in a 
relationship so having that conversation 
and just going back and forth 
and validating as you did with your son 
yes I realized that was a mistake but 
now I've apologized how can we go 
forward are the conversations that we 
have to have with our kids I have the 
same I mean many people think that the 
relationships with my kids or husband is 
perfect and that's not true no no no I 
am talking about conflict you're and I 
have been married between the two of us 
for 55 years exactly 
long time long time 
many years and so they're always ups and 
downs and we make mistakes even us as 
relationship experts and so I need to 
apologize that's another thing that I 
talk about in the book is how do we as 
parents apologize recognize our mistakes 
because if we want our kids to do that 
not only with us but in their 
relationships it's important to 
understand what is a good apology and 
how do you do good apologies 
yeah how do you do good apologies right 
and and you're right and you say in this 
book also good relationships for your 
children start with you their parent 
right what does that mean I mean I think 
I know what it means but I want to hear 
your intent for what it means well I 
think you know our children 
are are watching so much that's 
happening around them whether it be 
social media whether it be television 
tick tocks you know reading romance 
novels whatever it may be their friends 
parents 
they're being inundated with examples 
and illustrations of relationships some 
of them good and some of them not so 
good 
but as parents we can start now 
regardless of the age of your child 
whether they're young or old or young 
adults we can start now by setting the 
tone as I said about having these great 
conversations which are the 
conversations we really want them to 
have with their romantic Partners as 
well 
but also 
having conflict in front of them and 
resolving it I share the story of my son 
coming into the family room and my 
husband and I were disagreeing about who 
should have the uh the TV 
um oh the remote control thank you I 
even forgot the word control 
thank you and we were going back and 
forth no I would like the remote control 
no I would and my son looked at us I 
think he was 16 and said are you getting 
a divorce 
and I thought at that moment 
we have not had conflict disagreements 
or differences enough in front of him 
and resolved them because when kids grow 
up not seeing conflict the first time 
they have conflict in a relationship 
they think their relationship is in 
trouble 
so if we can set the tone to have those 
differences and agreements not in the 
bedroom not at night than they can hear 
but in front of them and resolve them 
well constructively as you gave examples 
of which were great 
um then we can be good examples role 
models and good relationships can start 
with us and that's just one example but 
all kinds of things we can talk to each 
other with respect 
we can give affirmation if I give 
affirmation to my husband every morning 
and my kids here then they can see oh 
look at his face 
after he got that affirmation 
Bella was so happy when she got the 
coffee in bed in the morning 
I'm recognizing and seeing that that's 
important in terms of relationships and 
happiness so good relationships for your 
children start with you as a parent 
um preach wow I have like Goosebumps 
from head to toe Terry you have been 
incredibly generous with your knowledge 
you're doing work that will impact many 
generations to come with your amazing 
work and I'm so grateful that you were 
here to share your gems with us and I 
know that this will be the first of many 
times you'll hopefully be on the Smart 
dating Academy podcast and lots more fun 
things to come because we just we 
discovered we're neighbors between 
Chicago and and Michigan we are 
neighbors we are both Midwestern gals at 
the moment exactly and I would love to 
come again thank you so much for 
inviting me Bella this has been so much 
fun for me as well 
