I'll actually give you a real example 
from this morning we were looking for my 
son's baseball pants you know my husband 
said everything is on the dresser it 
wasn't baseball pants it was some other 
type of pants and I said to my husband 
these aren't baseball pants now he took 
that as a criticism and he got defensive 
it wasn't about him and so when this 
cycle happens something really powerful 
is if you can recognize it's happening 
and choose to do something else instead 
I could have easily stuck in this 
criticism defensiveness thing and 
instead I heard his defensiveness and I 
just picked out the one thing that was 
true and I said you're right and then 
you know he was able to make a joke and 
we split out of it but if I wouldn't 
have been aware we would have kept going 
and our M would have been ruined but we 
fixed our morning pretty quickly because 
luckily this time it was me who 
recognized what was happening he's 
actually usually pretty good at 
recognizing it but if you can do that 
you can really change the dynamic pretty 
quickly 
