[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators happy Friday I hope you've 
been enjoying this week of daily mini 
podcast the feedback we've gotten has 
been amazing and listenership is better 
than ever so first of all thank you for 
being here thank you for following us 
this year it's been exactly a year that 
we launched the podcast 
so we appreciate all that you've done if 
the spirit calls you to it and you've 
loved this week and you've loved this 
year support us write a review give us a 
five star rating because those are the 
things that make us little podcasters 
feel like we're The Little Engine That 
Could so today's Friday and the last day 
of the first week of peak dating season 
and today's topic is creating a dating 
board of directors so I talked about 
this on Good Morning America as part of 
the three pipelines that people can have 
to meet people so if you haven't seen 
the GMA episode I will put it in the 
show notes but we talked about the three 
basic ways that smart daters meet people 
number one is using the apps number two 
is meeting people IRL or in real life 
right joining groups going out meeting 
people at cocktail parties and third one 
is getting set up by friends and family 
now I can tell you having had this 
company for going on 14 years the holy 
grail for all single people what most of 
my clients wish for and people that I 
meet all the time they wish that they 
were fixed up by people now why is that 
getting set up Holy Grail because if you 
know somebody and they want to set you 
up with somebody that they know you 
automatically have a frame of reference 
right you feel so much more at ease with 
a friend of a friend or somebody that 
your sister-in-law knows because you 
feel like there's some common Point 
versus them being some random person 
that you've swiped right to on a dating 
app so dating so getting set up is the 
Holy Grail and now so many clients of 
mine will tell me nobody will set me up 
though my friends and family will always 
be like you're so amazing I just don't 
have have anybody good enough to set you 
up with okay so now what I want you to 
do is if somebody offers to set you up 
with somebody and they're like what are 
you looking for just say I'm looking for 
somebody amazing somebody wonderful and 
be grateful for any setups that anybody 
gives you even if this setup okay 
happens to be a terrible setup okay it's 
like you're single he's single okay 
great you should go out with each other 
and it was not a great date it's okay 
still send that person who set you up a 
note of gratitude saying I'm really 
grateful that you thought of me I think 
he and I will be friends 
um but don't put the Bad Karma out there 
and really kind of rip that person apart 
for setting you up on a bad setup it's 
not that this person thought badly of 
you they were just trying to help I work 
with people all the time the guy that 
owns the salon that I get my hair cut at 
says to me he refuses to set people up 
anymore he's got a girlfriend and has 
for a long time because he wants set up 
two clients and he thought that they'd 
be great together and they weren't great 
together and each one of them was so mad 
at him that one of his clients actually 
fired him for trying to do something out 
of the goodness of his heart so don't do 
that don't put that bad karma out there 
so now I'm talking about setups and what 
to do so let's talk about this dating 
board of directors this idea that I 
spouted out there on GMA and it's 
actually a really fun idea it's 
something I just re get I gave it a cute 
little label about your dating board of 
directors but it's something that we've 
been talking about a long time at Smart 
dating Academy and it's finding the 
super connectors in your network and 
thinking about your network 
strategically okay so what I want you to 
think about is take a step back and to 
create your board of directors what 
we're looking for increa creating a 
board of directors are people it's not 
your best friends it's not your mom the 
people that are closest to you that's 
amazing and maybe they do belong on this 
but the definition of somebody that 
should be on your dating board of 
directors is somebody who is a connector 
right meaning they like to connect 
people I'm a connector I'm a super 
connector right like oh my gosh Jan you 
should meet my friend Katie because you 
both love Oprah's Book Club and I think 
you guys would like each other and you 
live by each other boom I'll put an 
email together create a new friendship I 
am that person now I'm sure in your 
networks you guys have those people that 
have that are connectors and they know a 
lot of people that's a super connector 
they like to make connections and they 
have a lot of connections and they 
follow through with those connections so 
what I want you to do is think about 
your network of people strategically and 
this is where the work comes in okay so 
what I will tell you to do is sit down 
and categorize your life because I want 
you to think about every Ding Dang 
person that you know okay because we 
want to do a very thorough sweep think 
about and I'm just going to give you 
categories like you could set up a 
circle and make lots of little pie 
pieces of you right and so if I had to 
set up Bella Gandhi's board of directors 
if I was single I would say well how do 
I look at every single person I know 
okay I would say well let me look at my 
friends from grade school okay who do I 
still know and keep in touch with and 
then I'd write grade school and then I'd 
write down all the people that I still 
know from grade school with Reckless 
abandon write down everybody that I know 
that I'm in touch with or could get in 
touch with then I say okay I moved in 
middle school middle school 
but write down all the people high 
school then you'd go to college right 
then maybe you were in sports then I got 
out of school I my first job was at 
Arthur Anderson I know a lot of Arthur 
Anderson people right then I went and 
worked in my family's business right 
then and think about time periods of 
your life and all of the people that you 
know through there you'll be surprised 
at how many people you know when you sit 
down and think about it strategically 
right you can also you can think about 
it in this way if you're not a social 
media person even if you are a social 
media person just think about all those 
people and then add your social media 
connections to it look at your Facebook 
look at your LinkedIn look at your Tick 
Tock look at your Instagram really think 
about all the people and now what you 
want to do is do a sweep of all those 
people let's say you end up with 15 
people on your list or maybe you end up 
with 250 people on your list right of 
all the people you know there should be 
a lot of people if you really sit down 
and think about this okay now what I 
want you to do is look at those people 
and look at who are the super connectors 
and you know who they are we all have 
our friends that you know are very 
involved in the community maybe they sit 
on a lot of boards of directors right 
maybe they just are those connectory 
people they're extroverted sweep Clean 
Sweep your list take a highlighter 
highlight the super connectors on your 
list okay or maybe go through your 
Facebook and your LinkedIn but get a 
list of those people and even if you've 
got two people or you might have 20 
people I don't care but those are the 
super connectors in your network so now 
you've got your list okay now what I 
want you to do is sit down and I want 
you to strategically 
tell these people that you're creating a 
personal dating board of directors and 
because they are a super connector and 
then tell them all the things you like 
about them it's like if I wanted to put 
you know Lindsay on my super connector 
list I'd be like Lindsay you're a dating 
coach at that fantastic company Smart 
dating Academy you know so many people 
you're bubbly you're vivacious you know 
so many people you were the president of 
your kids school you know so many people 
would you be on my dating board of 
directors and if Lindsay's like oh my 
gosh you thought of me and you you think 
I'm connected sure I'll be on your board 
of directors then I'll sit with her and 
say okay if you accept a position on my 
board of directors let's look at one 
month out of 2023 and your goal as a 
member of my board of directors is to 
set me up on one date in the month of 
January and she could be like oh my gosh 
I could totally do that okay what are 
you looking for Bella I'd say I'm 
looking for someone wonderful and we 
would sit down and maybe you take 
everybody on your board of directors out 
to lunch have a phone call with them 
have a zoom with them if they live far 
away but give it a little bit of a sense 
of import and then if they agree to be 
on your board of directors then they get 
to say that's your only ask is you get 
to find me at least one fix up for your 
month maybe you want people to set you 
up on two to three dates in a year I 
don't know but this is how I want you to 
set up your dating board of directors 
and you guys when you think about this 
it can work one-third of people have 
been set up by family and friends that 
are married that is an astronomical 
number so I want you to think about who 
are the super connectors in your network 
well first I want you to make a list of 
every single person you know every 
single person take a highlighter 
highlight the super connectors figure 
out who you want on your board of 
directors out of those super connectors 
reach out to them give it a mission make 
them know that it's an honor to be on 
your dating board of directors right and 
then ask them what your ask is set up a 
meeting and see how your dating life 
starts to ship but this is how you 
create your dating board of directors I 
hope that you found this segment useful 
and I hope that you know that if these 
are the little podcasts that we do 
imagine what it would be like to 
actually work with us one-on-one and 
have your own personal dating coach at 
your disposal it's Peak dating season if 
you're interested do the online dating 
love lab or get on our VIP one-on-one 
coaching wait list We are booking well 
into February March and April we would 
love to have you on board send us an 
email and we'll do a call with you to 
see if we're a good Mutual fit so I hope 
that you have enjoyed this series shoot 
us a note datecoach 
smartdatingacademy.com we always want to 
hear from you and with that happy Friday 
smart daters and stay tuned for next 
week's episode with Jackie pelasoff 
divorce girl smiling who is talking 
about the 10 reasons why someone didn't 
call you back for a date it's really 
good and I know you're gonna love it and 
that drops on Monday January 2nd so 
until then I bid you farewell and have a 
beautiful weekend and I look forward to 
meeting you soon 
