my mom and dad were watching television 
and saw you on the Steve Harvey Show and 
my poor parents have been my wing people 
forever and we the recipient of most of 
my dating complaints so after seeing you 
on the show they were like you have to 
find this Bella woman she just didn't 
want me to be on her couch anymore 
complaining dating for me had just been 
kind of crappy fixing your picker and 
fixing your beliefs didn't happen 
overnight in so many ways was a lot of 
the stuff that I said oh I I wouldn't 
date this guy you know he doesn't have a 
master's degree he doesn't have these 
things all these things that were on the 
list he opened my eyes to like what 
really matters for me as I say it back 
and as I've told people the story over 
Years A lot of people you know their 
eyes widen it's like oh my goodness but 
as it was happening this just felt like 
we were making decisions together almost 
from the beginning my favorite word for 
a relationship it's easy yes very 
complicated but also very 
easy 
