[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart daters welcome back to the Smart 
dating Academy show I'm so happy to be 
here with you today on this independence 
day and this Independence weekend and 
there's so many great things happening 
here at Smart dating Academy if you 
haven't followed our newsletter if you 
don't subscribe to it make sure you go 
to our site smartdatingacademy.com 
register on any form and you'll 
automatically be put into our newsletter 
database but we've had so many people 
falling in love we've been reporting the 
stories and we've had so many people 
seeking us out to find love that we're 
currently on a wait list until the fall 
to get into Peak dating season so if 
dating is something that you are hot to 
chat about and you think that this is 
going to be the year for you make sure 
that you get on our newsletter list make 
sure you get on our waitlist to be in 
our one-on-one program so what I wanted 
to talk to you about today is something 
that's near and dear to my heart I help 
people get into Relationships by helping 
them become better daters right and then 
getting into relationships that are 
actually healthy and happy for you and 
as someone who was a bad dater that's me 
you guys know my stories and put 
together my own methodology which I 
followed which I teach now at Smart 
dating Academy but which led me to my 
husband Andy of 25 years what I want to 
talk to you today in honor of 
Independence Day is how to become 
and seem more independent not just on 
your dates but also for those of you 
that are in relationships because 
Independence 
is sexy right Independence is confidence 
we all want to appear independent now 
independent doesn't mean aloof and 
avoidant and I don't need you I don't 
want you but independent is just it's 
that person if you close your eyes and 
you think about somebody who's 
independent right you think about 
somebody who just has it going on has 
their own life and they're just 
comfortable and confident in their skin 
right they could be in love and be happy 
but they're also just as happy with 
themselves when they're not so I want 
you to make sure that you are doing all 
of the things to become independent and 
happy and also to make sure that you're 
positioning yourself as a good 
potentially independent partner because 
the opposite of that is the n-word that 
none of us want to be and that's needy 
right we hear needy and for so many 
people it causes like spiders crawling 
on our skin and most of us don't think 
that we're needy people some of us might 
know like yeah I am kind of needy and I 
need a lot of attention right but here 
what I want to teach you how to do in 
this episode today is not be so needy or 
conversely become your most independent 
self so that you are more confident 
you're happier in your life and you come 
off as more attractive and more sexy 
whether it be to a brand new date to 
somebody who you're on a fifth date with 
or somebody you've been in a 
relationship with for six months or six 
years or six decades so what I'm going 
to do is take you through a list of 
seven things so thing number one that I 
want to tell you is super important for 
you so many of us is 
I want you to create a life for yourself 
that you actually love okay and then be 
able to talk about what you love and the 
things that you do 
so often as a dating coach I hear people 
going oh if only I if I had a 
significant other my life sucks because 
I am just that person I don't have a 
partner I'm always on my own I'm going 
to the barbecues alone or I don't get 
invited 
and when you're thinking those kinds of 
negative thoughts you know you're 
projecting out there you're projecting 
negative energy so again number one I 
want you to create that life for your 
for yourself that you love and then 
prepare to talk about that so what does 
that mean for you create a life that you 
love think about the things and 
sometimes it requires some reflection 
what are the things that make you happy 
and so often especially as women and 
women that maybe have been married or in 
long-term relationships maybe you're 
caring for children maybe you're caring 
for aging parents we've all of that 
stuff has escaped us if I say to you 
what do you love to do a lot of women 
will look at me blankly and go I don't 
really know what I love to do think 
about being young what did you love to 
do could you fashion sketch for hours 
did you make mixtapes and mix CDs what 
are the things that you love to do and 
that make you feel good and start to put 
those things into your life on a daily 
basis you know I'm a big fan of eating 
healthy okay because food is your 
medicine and what you're putting in your 
body is going to affect you physically 
emotionally and mentally get movement 
every single day right because movement 
is really good for our mental health and 
it makes us feel more positive it puts 
us in a better mood you get dopamine you 
get beta endorphins these things make 
you happier and so doing these kinds of 
things are going to help you to create 
that life that you love and then when 
you're on dates be able to talk about 
the things that light you on fire and 
make you you that make you the best 
version of you the most interesting 
version of you because when you talk 
about something passionately it makes 
the other person if they're listening to 
you now God hope they're listening to 
you it gives them content it gives them 
material to get to know you better to 
become more curious about you to ask you 
questions to get to know you better so 
that's Point number one 
now the second thing I want you to do 
and this is whether you're single or 
you're in a relationship you guys I want 
you to start actively 
traveling and doing things on your own 
go on a trip alone okay for those of you 
I've been married for 25 years right I 
have had a sidekick my husband forever 
then we had two kids I have a lot of 
friends but going on trips alone for me 
I fulfill that through my business trips 
right I go by myself I go to the airport 
alone I fly alone I often eat alone I've 
gotten comfortable eating by myself 
because I've been traveling for business 
since I've been in my early 20s I've 
been in Japan on my own I've been in 
Brazil on my own I've been in Australia 
completely on my own taking those long 
trips but what it does is it gets you 
comfortable with spending time with the 
most important person in your life and 
that is yourself learn if you haven't 
had to do that because you've been 
single for a long time or you've done 
business travel do something put 
yourself out of your comfort zone so 
many people will tell me oh my gosh I 
could never go to a movie alone I could 
never go to a Broadway show alone I 
could never go to a restaurant alone yes 
you can you guys every time I go to New 
York to do a show this coming Friday I'm 
going to New York to tape uh to record a 
segment or not record a segment to do a 
live segment on Saturday July 9th for 
Good Morning America what do I do I fly 
there on Thursday and as soon as I land 
I fly by myself I'm in a hotel by myself 
do I have a lot of friends in New York 
yeah do I have a lot of clients in New 
York yeah but I use that to become 
acclimated and comfortable with myself 
again because I don't get a lot of alone 
time my secret when I go alone to go to 
GMA or the Today show I find what 
Broadway show is playing and I buy a 
ticket for one person and it's funny and 
I've seen the waitress I've seen 
dear Evan Hansen I've seen so many 
amazing shows alone by myself and I 
might treat myself to a great cup of 
coffee or a glass of wine during the 
show and sometimes I slink in by myself 
and people will look at me like oh is 
there anybody else coming behind her and 
no it's just me and that one seat and I 
talk to the people to the left of me to 
the right of me and just make it an 
entire experience and I tell people I do 
this by myself and I bought this one 
ticket and people are always impressed 
by that and it gives me more confidence 
in myself to be able to do all of those 
things alone so if you haven't done this 
yet I want you to think about what could 
you do that would challenge you and put 
yourself out of your comfort zone a 
little bit maybe go to a bar by yourself 
sit at a restaurant by yourself without 
having your nose in a book right be 
present eat by your yourself get 
comfortable with it we so often feel 
this social anxiety that oh my gosh what 
are people going to think if I'm alone 
I'm a loser and I don't have anybody no 
people will be like they're not thinking 
about you they'll look over there and 
they'll see you sitting by yourself and 
then they'll go back to thinking about 
them their favorite subject which is 
themselves so be that person that starts 
to get really comfortable in your own 
skin and if you're feeling bold plan a 
trip for yourself maybe it's just a 
weekend I'm not saying you have to go to 
Europe for two weeks completely by 
yourself although I have tons of clients 
that have done that and they've really 
had a great time amid some challenging 
moments sometimes 14 days on your own 
can feel a little lonely and you feel 
like man I wish I had someone to share 
this experience with but I hear you the 
beauty is do for yourself what feels 
comfortable two days three days maybe 
it's 14 days but make sure that you're 
in places and that you're comfortable 
reaching out to strangers talking to 
strangers maybe asking somebody else 
who's sitting by themselves hey could I 
sit with you and just talk to them for 
an hour but get yourself to that point 
because ladies and gentlemen the more 
comfortable you will feel on your own 
the better relationship partner you'll 
be and the better date you'll be because 
you're going to feel less needy because 
you can do things by yourself and 
there's a certain fierceness and 
Independence that comes along with that 
I always feel a little badass when I do 
things by myself because it makes me 
know that I am just fine on my own and I 
am excellent company for myself so 
number three 
learn to recognize and deal with your 
own emotions don't expect someone else 
maybe it's your significant other maybe 
it's the person you're on a date with 
maybe it's a friend of yours don't 
expect people to mind read and read your 
emotions and always do the right thing 
so I want you this is really the 
definition of what we call emotional 
intelligence when you feel something you 
validate your feeling but get to the 
bottom core of what made that bad 
feeling arise do you feel sad do you 
feel angry do you feel scared right what 
is that feeling and what was the thought 
or the event that triggered that feeling 
and I want you to go deep with yourself 
like okay when so and so gave me a dirty 
look or what I perceived as a dirty look 
when they walked into the office that 
morning that made me feel sad because I 
felt like I did something wrong to them 
so I want you number one to be able to 
identify what made you sad right and get 
to the bottom of what that emotion is 
right and I want you to learn how to 
self-regulate now how do you do that 
instead of stewing in sadness all day I 
want you to think about are there 
alternative interpretations for what 
might have just happened if the example 
I just used that came to the top of my 
head if someone said if somebody gave 
you a dirty look or what you thought was 
a dirty look when you walked in 
could it have been about something else 
ask yourself what is another story that 
might have happened oh well maybe they 
forgot to wear their contact lenses and 
maybe they're just scrunching their eyes 
because they can't see who's walking 
into the room right maybe they had a 
fight with somebody else this morning 
and this has nothing to do with me come 
up with three different alternative 
interpretations for what you think 
someone might be thinking about you and 
you'll automatically start to 
self-regulate because so often as 
anxious people we tend to think we tend 
to self magnify right we tend to think 
everything is about us but the good news 
is it's not always about us someone 
else's bad mood isn't about us somebody 
else's dirty look has nothing to do with 
us so I want you to learn how to 
recognize your emotions recognize the 
events that triggered you to feel that 
way and then recognize the fact that if 
someone did trigger you if there was 
something you have a voice and you can 
talk to the person about it and just say 
hey you know when I walked in this 
morning I the story I'm telling myself 
is that you might have been mad at me 
because I saw you giving me a dirty look 
am I just inventing this or if somebody 
did something that actually triggered 
you regulate yourself tell yourself this 
person didn't mean to trigger me I 
triggered myself and I allowed myself to 
get angry bring your own anger down by 
taking the responsibility for that and 
then have a conversation with that 
person and have that conversation from a 
place of love with the goal of getting 
that relationship to the next best place 
okay so recognize your own emotions and 
know that your own emotions are your own 
responsibility my own emotions even 
though I've been married to Andy for 25 
years my emotions are not his problem 
right I'll tell him hey I I know I seem 
like in a bad mood and I want you to 
know why I've got this this and this 
going on at work and I'm a little 
stressed out right now but I want you to 
know this has nothing to do with you and 
I'm working through this right now I 
don't need advice I might want to talk 
to you later just to vent some things 
out and he will look at me and say I so 
appreciate you telling me where you're 
at and telling me that this isn't about 
me right I can recognize I'm feeling 
stressed I'm feeling scared I'm feeling 
anxious and I can use my voice to tell 
him what I'm thinking so that he doesn't 
React to what he thinks my story is so 
these things you guys they will take you 
yards and yards in the dating world or 
in the relationship World remember your 
feelings are your own responsibility 
understand what they are and learn to 
regulate yourself right they say learn 
to soothe your own inner child so many 
of us grew up in house is where we 
didn't learn how to self-soothe or we 
were left to our own devices and we shut 
down or we got angry and now we flee 
from situations but I want you to learn 
to recognize your emotions regulate your 
emotions and then use your voice to 
either talk yourself down or talk to 
another person about it with the goal of 
always getting the relationship to a 
better level now number four how to 
become more independent and seem more 
independent and be more independent in 
your relationships is have friends 
outside of your relationship with the 
significant other or if you're single 
make sure that you have a robust network 
of friends I want you to always maintain 
these relationships so often when we 
start dating somebody we tend to want to 
just suck up every second with this 
person and because we're anxious right 
and we're coming from an anxious place 
and we think if we're not totally 
together with this person all the time 
that in that separateness something bad 
is going to happen what I'm here to tell 
you is maintain that network of friends 
your friends want you to be around 
they're watching your behavior when 
you're starting to date somebody or 
you're in a new relationship or even if 
you're married your friends want to be 
part of your life always maintain those 
friendships because you get something 
special from every person that you're 
friends with we are going to have your 
wild and crazy friend you're going to 
have your adventurous friend you might 
have your friend that's into 
intermittent fasting with you you might 
have your yoga friend you have all of 
these friends for all of these different 
reasons always always always maintain 
your relationships with other people it 
will make you feel more independent and 
be more independent and therefore be a 
better dater and a better partner now 
number five right 
develop a hobby of your own that is your 
own and that you are super passionate 
about and then immerse yourself in that 
Hobby 
fall in love with it and then be able to 
talk about it so maybe you've thought 
about becoming a golfer and you've never 
coughed okay 
get yourself a golf coach get yourself 
an instructor go to the driving range 
learn how to hit balls go to GolfTEC 
right hit at an interactive whatever 
those ranges are where you can like 
video game the hell out of your golf 
game but be consistent about it develop 
this hobby get good at it and then be 
ready to talk about the fact that you're 
a new golfer but how much you're loving 
this and what you're doing to improve 
your game maybe you're an aspiring 
musician right I'm giving you the things 
that I want to learn how to do I would 
love to learn how to play the guitar 
right so pick up a Guitar get a teacher 
find chords online and start learning 
how to do things and learning to be with 
yourself and doing these things will 
build your confidence so substantially 
in yourself and it's going to bring you 
so much more joy because you're putting 
things things into your life that you 
actually love and it's also going to 
make you what it's going to make you a 
more interesting conversational partner 
because now you have all these new 
things to talk about rather than same 
old same old you can say well something 
interesting I've been doing lately is 
I've been teaching myself guitar because 
I've always been obsessed with music I 
Love acoustic covers so I figured 
instead of listening to all these people 
playing Amazing acoustic covers maybe I 
can learn how to do that myself and so 
you just become a more interesting human 
being you become a happier human being 
and you've certainly become a hell of a 
lot more interesting from a 
conversational standpoint and this isn't 
just for dates this is even in your 
friendships in your boyfriend girlfriend 
relationship in your marriage have 
something that you're developing by 
yourself on your own that you are super 
passionate about that you can talk about 
get your charcoal pencils out get your 
colored pencils out learn how to draw 
learn how to paint do that thing that is 
going to light your fire put that fire 
in your belly and just make you excited 
about life 
now Point number six is learn to become 
what I call 
interdependent in a relationship not 
codependent and there is a difference 
okay sometimes independent can mean 
aloof or avoidant like I referred to 
when I first opened up the show that is 
not what I mean 
interdependent means you are good on 
your own you know your wants you know 
your needs you know your core values and 
you have a partner who knows the same he 
or she knows their wants their needs and 
their core values and when you're 
together 
you are better together you don't need 
to be around each other but you love to 
be around each other being codependent 
means if you're on your own 
you feel like if we're not together at 
every moment your anxiety starts to 
trigger and you feel like oh my God I'm 
going to be abandoned this person's 
going to find someone better they're 
going to fall out of love with me no 
that is not how you want to be in a 
relationship and remember getting the 
help around that if you find yourself 
being more codependent get a dating 
coach hire us at Smart dating Academy 
hire a therapist this is what you need 
you need to learn to build your core 
muscles of being independent and this is 
what this podcast is about is having you 
build up your own life so that you can 
be interdependent with a partner come 
together and be happy but then also be 
happy when you're on your own you can 
fulfill each other's needs but most 
importantly you can fulfill your own 
needs that is the difference of being 
interdependent versus 
codependent when you're codependent you 
lose sight of yourself you lose sight of 
what you want what you need and what 
your values are and you can chameleon 
yourself into being a clone of this 
person that you're with who most likely 
doesn't want a clone right they want you 
to be you they were attracted to the you 
you were on the first and the second and 
the third date they weren't looking for 
a Xerox copy of themselves so becoming 
interdependent as a goal is something 
that is going to be fostered by you 
becoming more independent in your own 
life more passionate about your own life 
creating a life that you love 
understanding your own emotions 
identifying your emotions all of these 
things are haha no pun intended 
interdependent with each other and last 
but not least Point number seven about 
becoming more independent in your life 
and all of your relationships is I want 
you to realize right whether you're 
single and you're still on the search 
for that relationship maybe you're in a 
new relationship or maybe you're in an 
existing relationship that's been going 
on for six months six years or five 
decades I want you to know that your 
relationship cannot and should not be 
everything to you if it is you are 
putting too much pressure on the 
relationship one person cannot be 
everything for you that's why I'm 
telling you have a partner that fits 
your core values what you need in a 
partner to be happy and what you want in 
a partner right but then have a network 
of other people that fulfill other 
things for you I always say to my 
clients just because you love to play 
tennis or you love the Opera doesn't 
mean that your partner has to do the 
same right because those aren't core 
needs or core value use right that might 
be a want but you can have a person that 
loves the Opera that's a friend of yours 
you can join a Tennis League again and 
get that part of yourself fulfilled 
without having to pressure your partner 
to do all of the same things that you do 
don't make this one relationship 
everything for you I want you to think 
about your relationships like you would 
Asset Management right you want to 
diversify your relationships because you 
get different things fulfilled by 
different people even if it's your 
romantic partner this might be the most 
important relationship in your life but 
you should have lots of other 
relationships with other people that 
fulfill and excite you and keep you 
becoming a better person you learn from 
other people you grow from other people 
you can take on their Hobbies as well so 
I really hope that on this Independence 
week that this has inspired you 
to really create a life that you love 
independent from anybody else around you 
get to know yourself ladies and 
gentlemen get to know what you love in 
your life what you're lacking what you 
would love more of what you would want 
to learn where you would want to go do 
the things that I am telling you in this 
podcast episode and you're going to 
watch your life go from a happiness 
level X to a happiness level 3x I 
promise you and as always thank you for 
listening if you love this episode and 
you love our podcast and so many of you 
have been sending so many amazing love 
notes I read every one of them make sure 
that you follow me on Instagram at 
smartdatingacademy make sure like I said 
in the beginning that you sign up in our 
database for our newsletter so you're 
getting things hot off the presses and 
if you need a consultation if you need 
any help you need a coaching session or 
you want to get in on the waitlist for 
our one-on-one coaching program make 
sure that you reach out to us now and 
until next time I can't wait until we 
meet again 
