my friend and personal trainer stephanie 
mann source building dating confidence 
is something we work on at smart dating 
academy and i know 
in your practice it's really really 
important many of my clients are you 
know struggling with their weight so as 
a weight loss coach i do focus on the 
nuts and bolts of how we can lose weight 
the nutritional side the physical side 
with the workouts but also the emotional 
side and the spiritual side but what i 
try to do is i try to help my clients to 
get all these things going in tandem so 
we can date while we're losing weight 
even if we're not at the exact place 
that we want to be with our bodies 
physically we can still feel confident 
in knowing that we're working on it and 
we can still actively date at the same 
time because i know you know life is 
short time to go after what you want 
stuff when somebody does kind of trash 
themselves in a way 
i always say if you wouldn't say it to 
your best friend why would you say it to 
yourself 
