tell us about your life your marriage 
what happened and how you ended up here 
I had a great husband Dave and he had a 
glioblastoma multiform but basically a 
supreme tumor so he died in November of 
2016. and this guy from high school 
shows up I saw him on Facebook and saw 
wherever he was in his family and all 
that well we've been divorced for 
several years he just says hey I just 
wanted to check on you you know how are 
you doing since Dave passed away and 
sometimes I get to Tuscaloosa I'd love 
to come to the football game and so he 
comes riding in back to Tuscaloosa on 
his White Horse but then little pieces 
of it going bad so we put you online 
you've got a new profile it's a great I 
messaged him first and I don't know it 
was just very comforting I see Christy 
on Facebook with the ring uh hello 
congratulations and that's how we just 
reckon connected in the last few weeks 
