this may be a part of the breakup 
conversation or it may come afterwards 
but at some point it needs to be 
established that you're going to take 
some time off from communicating you 
know no contact period but that's 
designed and implemented to help you to 
heal then there may be Logistics uh the 
exchange of things that should be the 
initiator's responsibility to make that 
happen if you're living together there 
is so much more of a complexity but you 
may also have to be the person to to 
initiate that and then there's dealing 
with social media yes whether or not 
you're going to continue to follow one 
another and there are ways to introduce 
perhaps disconnecting in order for you 
too to have time to space that time to 
heal yeah you can mute people okay you 
don't have to even unfollow you can mute 
them on most apps yes and if you want to 
unfollow them you can't 
