[Music] 
what help can you give us not snacking 
is a great way to prevent disease or 
maintain good health but what do you do 
if you've already got a little bit of 
metabolic Health impairment the absence 
makes a heart grow fonder you know from 
our own insulin so in order to stay 
healthy not having snacks is a great way 
to not overwhelm ourselves but once our 
cells are already overwhelmed and 
annoyed we know we need to take a break 
so it's kind of you know like any 
relationship you spend a long period of 
time with a particular individual a 
little bit of space can go a long way in 
maintaining the health of that 
individual after a period so we need to 
have sort of these periods of time where 
we're not producing a whole lot of 
insulin just what our body needs to 
survive but nothing in response to food 
to allow the cells to heal so this is 
where we get into more therapeutic 
strategies 
