and because you ask for them we deliver 
you love the love stories and this love 
story of marilyn dollar is one of my 
favorites our dear listener out there is 
wondering could i ever find the lid to 
my pot what would you tell them first i 
would say 
if you haven't found it yet maybe your 
secret sauce is hiring a coach i mean 
the one thing that i loved about working 
with you is you didn't just come at it 
and say 
all right you can do it let's go you 
took the time to invest in me and to get 
to know me and to get to know what i 
wanted and what i was about 
and then you assessed if you and i could 
work together 
because you don't work with just anyone 
no find someone to believe in you oh my 
god that gave me goosebumps 100 
it doesn't happen right away it took 
years to find him this didn't happen in 
minutes 
