[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome to the Tuesday episode of a five 
episode week in honor to in order to 
honor you and honor Peak dating season 
so let's jump right into it it's me solo 
again today and we're going to talk 
about how do you date multiple people at 
one time okay so if you've been 
following Smart dating Academy which I 
hope you guys have we're almost at our 
oneyear anniversary of this beautiful 
podcast and we're on episode I don't 
know 52 or so but the question is let's 
let's talk about this and take a step 
back how do you create a dating funnel 
why should you have a dating funnel and 
why should you not only do one and done 
dating right so what is a dating funnel 
for those of you who don't know maybe 
you've been hiding under a rock since 
you haven't been following us a dating 
funnel is 
having multiple people to choose from I 
call it a funnel because like a funnel 
it's wide at the top and then as you get 
narrower and narrower down kind of into 
the funnel it gets narrower and then 
ultimately it funnels the liquid into a 
out of a small small orifice right and 
dating is the same way you've got many 
people at the top which make it a funnel 
and then you're going to sift people in 
sift people out mainly more people out 
because 99% of people are not right for 
us so we sift people out bring more 
people in and then ultimately we narrow 
it down to maybe our top three top two 
and then ultimately our top one right so 
that's what a dating funnel is you want 
to always have multiple dating options 
until you have someone that you want to 
be exclusive with okay now let me tell 
you the reasons why you might be raising 
your eyebrows going well why should I 
have a dating funnel I I can't even 
imagine dating more than one person at 
one time maybe you're a serial 
monogamist and you've only been in 
long-term relationships maybe you're 
coming out of a very long marriage and 
this is your first for into the dating 
World maybe you had the love of your 
life and you lost them prematurely and 
now you're headed back into the dating 
world again and the thought of dating 
more than one person just seems so crazy 
to you but let me tell you not having a 
dating funnel not dating multiple people 
at one time is one of the biggest 
mistakes you can make as you enter the 
dating world ever as you enter 2023 as a 
smart dater right now why should we be 
doing this okay dating has changed it's 
not like it was 25 30 years ago right 
people everybody's using technology 
everybody that's dating seriously is 
using dating apps right and you as a 
smart dater are definitely going to be 
on the dating apps because you know we 
are now in the midst of peak dating 
season yesterday December 26 online 
dating numbers started to spike 50 to 
80% so much so that Sunday January 8th 
is going to be the busiest online dating 
dat of the year right so as you're 
thinking about this just know it's a big 
mistake to just oneandone date and it's 
a mistake to assume that people that 
you're talking to and dating in your 
dating funnel they're doing the same as 
you are they're dating other people as 
well nobody is exclusive you guys until 
we have the conversation we are 
exclusive with each other exclusive does 
not mean I'm not dating anybody else 
right now because that allows the door 
to be kicked right open exclusive means 
I don't want to date anybody else except 
you because I think you're the lid to my 
pot I want to shut down my dating apps I 
want to date you and only you because I 
think you're amazing maybe that's the 
point where you'll consider putting a 
title on it this is my boyfriend this is 
my girlfriend this is my partner 
whatever you want to call this person 
but they should have a title in your 
head and not just be the person you're 
dating person you're talking to this is 
the person you're exclusive with right 
and so this should be done over a slow 
period of time okay and now why have a 
dating funnel let me ask let me tell you 
this if you came into let's say you know 
your aunt Susie passed away and Aunt 
Susie was a you know a multi-millionaire 
and Aunt Susie left you $20 million and 
you had no idea where to invest it would 
you listen to a tip that came from your 
neighbor saying invest it all in Bitcoin 
like invest it all in crypto or invest 
it all in Amazon you wouldn't take all 
that money dear friend and put it in one 
stock would you no you wouldn't this is 
like any smart investor would do you 
would 
diversify all that cash across different 
asset classes right maybe you keep some 
in cash you put some in stocks you'd put 
some in bonds you'd put some in maybe 
more risky things if you're younger 
maybe you want want to help fund a 
startup company right you maybe you want 
to give some to a nonprofit whatever it 
is but you wouldn't take all that money 
and put it into One Singular thing right 
you would diversify and make sure that 
that money returned when something goes 
up something goes down okay and that's 
when you've heard me say before dating 
is like a horse race you've got to have 
multiple horses to make it a race 
because you are the prize it's not one 
and done and so many of us want to one 
and done date right because we just get 
dating fatigued but what I'm telling you 
is until you've been out on 15 plus 
dates with one person over 3 to four 
months slowly with multiple people in 
your funnel don't lock it down and don't 
get exclusive with somebody right you 
can listen to our previous episodes on 
how Sylvia Found Love and you know pre 
we preach sex exclusivity and she didn't 
sleep with them or get exclusive until 
after 15 dayses so there's so so much 
good information in this podcast and I 
promise that these would be short little 
mini episodes so have a dating funnel 
right and why do you want to do that 
besides having diversification you want 
to do it because if one person that 
you're dating flakes goost to you it 
doesn't hurt as much if you've got 
multiple people in your funnel right 
that's just keeping yourself on the up 
and up and protecting your heart from 
getting hurt um you want to make sure 
that you don't ignore red flag right 
especially if we've had a bad picker 
we're prone to picking bad people one 
andone dating is often the kiss of death 
for us remember second marriage is 
divorce at the rate of 67% because we 
pick the same person over and over again 
we pick people we're comfortable with 
people that feel familiar to us so don't 
do that if you've only got one option 
you're going to tend to settle you're 
going to tend to sweep red flags under 
the rug and you're going to pick the 
wrong person again right and now if one 
person says to you if somebody says to 
you while you're dating hey are you 
dating other people you can just smile 
sweetly at them in response to this 
remember people need to earn your story 
what can you say you can say you know 
what on occasion what makes you ask 
right answer a question with a smile and 
bounce the question right back to them 
you don't have to tell them well I've 
been listening to this dating podcast 
and it says you have to have a dating 
funnel you don't have to reveal anything 
you don't want to right you can say on 
occasion what makes you ask okay and 
that's enough and just assume that 
everybody is dating multiple people just 
because you're talking to one person 
doesn't mean that they've shut their 
dating apps down just because you've 
been on five good dates with somebody 
doesn't mean that they're not dating 
other people okay and now if you need to 
create a dating funnel you need to have 
great photos you need to have a really 
good profile you need to know what apps 
listen to yesterday's episode about what 
the best dating apps are for 2023 if 
you're catching up and you need to have 
a dating strategy now if you don't have 
great photos you don't have a great 
profile you don't think you can manage 
dating funnel and you want more close 
one-on-one information from us about it 
join the online dating love lab that 
we're hosting on Sunday January 8th 
which is the busiest online dating day 
of the year by the end of that episode 
you will know which one your best photos 
are you might even have a perfectly 
written profile if you do your homework 
because I send you our exclusive online 
profile workbook to write the perfect 
profiles you could be on your way to 
finding the love of your life in 2023 so 
join the online dating love La by 
clicking the link in the show notes and 
I can't wait to see you there until 
tomorrow where we're going to be talking 
about how you tell if someone is a 
player stay tuned I'll see you soon big 
love to you and hopefully see you on 
January 8th at the online dating love 
lab 
