this is the first time I've got two 
people on with me it's like the Menage Ã  
trois of podcast today is going to be a 
love story of this beautiful stunning 
and more more importantly beautiful on 
the inside client named Mindy and I've 
also brought Lindsay to talk about what 
it was like to be Mindy's personal 
trainer for love through this process 
you get so invested with the people that 
you work with and you care so much and 
it really turns into just a really 
beautiful relationship my traumas I've 
gone through I mean gosh sitting down 
with Lindsay just to get to know my past 
and my present and what I need to be 
looking forward into my dating world 
really has helped navigate where I am 
today and that's not just in a 
relationship but that's how I see how I 
approach my business or my family or 
friendships 
