I always say this to my patients you you 
have to remember nobody was talking 
about narcissism and Trauma bonds and 
love bombing nobody was talking about it 
based on all those Disney movies I was 
like oh my my prince has come this is 
what's supposed to happen he's going to 
pull up in the white limo and I'm going 
to be in my leather minis skirt 
buttercap in the back I'm so with you 
that was really the story The the myth 
of romantic love that we were fed we 
should be swept off our feet there 
should be grandiose gesture 
because this is Prince Charming and I 
like to say what happens when you get 
swept off your feet you land on your 
back look up like what the hell just 
happened but I could never set 
boundaries with him or fight him and 
then I just think oh he just loves me so 
much but my gut I did a video about this 
when he asked me to get married he got 
engaged my gut said uhoh 
