[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find l 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters I 
have an episode today that's going to 
knock your socks off okay so um I have 
with me my new friend Dr Nay this is Dr 
naen Macaluso and I'm going to have her 
tell you her whole story but Dr Nay was 
married to The Wolf of Wall Street 
Jordan bort and is here to tell her 
amazing story of surviving thriving and 
what she's doing today and she's going 
to tell us all the things you want to 
know about trauma bonds about picking 
the same Partners over and over again Dr 
Nay welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast 
thank you I'm so excited to be here yes 
it's hard to date 
today girl say it again for the people 
in the back it is hard to date today and 
um well can you just start out and I'm 
going to give you the floor tell us your 
story you know some people might have 
seen the movie many people might not 
have I think most people are familiar 
with the moniker but just you know sure 
tell us your tale yeah so it um so I 
grew up in Brooklyn New York and I was 
raised in the 70s which was a great time 
to be a child I do say that no internet 
no phone right and I was raised with a 
very psychologically oriented mother and 
she was reading Sigman Freud and car 
young then and we would always talk 
about our feelings and it was a very 
open household and so I was very Charmed 
childhood and um but she was a single 
mother and just you and her and my 
brother and my brother so yeah so so my 
dad was in and out of my life you know 
not abusive but like what would would 
call a Disneyland dad you know literally 
come take us to Disneyland but let her 
do all the heavy work right he was the 
fun guy he was the fun guy and so um 
being raised by a single mom I was 
really on my own financially since I 
graduated high school at 17 and I went 
away to college for a year was not for 
me at that point in my life and so I 
started to model because I needed money 
you know I lived in Brooklyn and New 
York City and Brooklyn are very 
expensive and so I started to model and 
as the movie The Wolf of Wall Street 
Wall Street to piic I went to a party 
and that night changed my life 
forever and 
tell us about the party like what 
happened a party this was a capital p a 
r t y y y this was a party and I was 22 
I was with my boyfriend and I go into 
this big Grand you know beautiful White 
House contemporary house on dun Road in 
Westampton Beach and I walk in and I 
felt weird I was like what's happening 
at this party now I didn't know that all 
on 
Quaaludes I didn't even know what a 
qualude was of course at 22 I mean I had 
no I mean wine was good enough for me at 
that point wine and beer and so it was a 
strange feeling and somebody like the 
movie shows actually did expose 
themselves to me so I left 
IM his pants and I and I felt so 
embarrassed and so much shame you know 
it's interesting how victims feel that 
you know even though the other people 
that the perpetrators don't and I said 
to my boyfriend we got to get out of 
here I I just I felt terrible so we left 
and but I guess my ex-husband had seen 
me and I guess I seemed like an object 
that he wanted to have because that's 
the way these people 
are and then he pursued me and um you 
know he was married at the time but he 
pursued me about 6 months later you know 
telling me that typical he he's 
separated he has an 
apartment and he actually paid somebody 
$5,000 initially to take us to dinner 
tell us about this like what the hell oh 
like first of all who does that Jordan 
Belfor but tell us how that happened 
yeah so this woman kept calling me 
calling me calling me and I said why is 
this woman calling me so finally that 
was when we had answering machines you 
know they had to leave the message and 
so I was like hi what do you want she's 
like oh um want to go to dinner and I 
thought okay it's a little strange but 
and she said that guy Jordan Bel for's 
going to go and I said what's he coming 
for and she said what do you care I said 
I don't care just think it's weird isn't 
he married so but on bounc to me they 
had set the whole thing up and so I was 
sitting at dinner with her and he comes 
sauntering out with his cowboy boots out 
of his white tester Roa and sits down I 
have no idea that I'm set up I'm from 
Brooklyn he's from Queens and I'm just 
ch in with him we got along 
brilliantly then the next day he drove 
that night he drove me home and I was 
like hm maybe he does like me and then 
the next day as the movie shows I had 
like 12200 square feet of flowers in an 
800t apartment what did you think at 
that moment were you like what yeah I 
was like my friends I was actually 
having a birthday party for my 
girlfriend that day and all my friends 
over they were like come on you didn't 
sleep with him I said sleep with them 
I barely know him he just drove me home 
and then I really didn't see him for six 
months cuz I had just some my milite 
commercial and I had gone to I was going 
to Chicago actually to model oh where 
were you I don't know where I was but I 
remember driving through Wisconsin and 
there was a lot of cheese 
Farms I don't remember exactly but I 
love Chicago it was beautiful city and 
then when I came back that Christmas was 
when we saw each other at the gym and 
that's when we officially started to get 
together yeah so it was an interesting 
beginning so okay you get 1,200 square 
feet of flowers and now are you like 
okay game over or you're married or how 
did you say no like what happened 
between then and six months later you 
know that I really wasn't I mean this 
sounds weird to say I really wasn't 
impressed because I didn't like him I 
already I think I who know I was was 
saying like three other guys who even 
knows who I was dating at that point um 
and he was married so I just didn't even 
think about it right so I just was like 
all right this guy's a little nutty you 
know and then I went on my way he went 
on his way and I was so robbed up in 
trying to make money and you know really 
pursue my career it's a very challenging 
career to have you know and yeah and so 
I was you know I was really based on my 
survival not really thinking that much 
about him and then 6 months later when 
we went on that first date that time 
then it was game 
on okay so you guys meet on the 
elliptical I'm kidding you run into each 
other basically at the gym gym yeah it 
it was the vertical Club it was 
legendary in New York oh that's awesome 
and so he's like hey didn't I send you a 
helicopter full of flowers do you want 
to have lunch tomorrow and you're like 
sure yeah I think he called me a lot 
after I sent he sent me the flowers but 
I blew them off and then somebody said 
to me you know he's separated you should 
go out with him I was like all right 
I'll go out with anybody once I mean how 
bad could it 
be famous last words Famous Last Words 
yep okay so now you're 22 years old 
you're modeling you're trying to make 
two ends me at this point and you go out 
on your first date like what happened 
and then take us through on our first 
date we really again got along very well 
I think he was surprised I was 
smart um because he kept mentioning that 
and again I was I was from Brooklyn he 
was from Queens so I think we had like 
um like a very similar background which 
I think was very unifying 
and we just really had a great time you 
know it was that simple we just really 
had a great time and we really like 
quickly like a trauma Bond starts you 
know just became obsessed with each 
other right right from the beginning and 
there was a lot of love 
bombing and you know gifts and you know 
when one one day he sent his driver to 
my house with $155,000 in cash I was 
like what am I going to do with this 
and he was like go spend it I literally 
could not even spend it I bought my 
mother's stereo I was like there's you 
know you have to remember that was a lot 
of money because let's say that's 
probably like 
$50,000 now right because this was I 
don't even know what year it was 
1989 wow that was a ton of money that 
was like more than two years of college 
tuition by the way I'd like that money 
now if anybody wants to give it to me 
hey Jordan Drive do a drive by later 
tonight yeah so and so there was just so 
much sweeping me off my feet and fancy 
dinners and you know he extricated 
himself from his marriage and we were 
engaged in six months so fast and 
furious like a trauma Bond and married 
six months 
later because that's what he wanted 
that's what he wanted right and you 
became the object of his affection and 
Obsession and I'm sure and that's a 
really 
intoxicating feeling especially for a 
22y old who's trying to make ends meet 
yeah and especially for you know yeah I 
always say this to my patients you know 
you have to remember nobody was talking 
about narcissism and Trauma bonds and 
love bombing this was so not even nobody 
was talking about it it wasn't even in 
the vernacular like in the zist nothing 
nothing so I I you know based upon all 
those Disney movies and pretty woman and 
all pretty woman that's right I was like 
oh my go my prince has come right this 
is what this is what's supposed to 
happen he's going to pull up in the 
white limo and I'm gonna be in my 
leather mini skirt on the fire skap in 
the back and that's and that's what we 
thought I'm so with you I thought that 
we all thought the more the better we 
were sold 
Disney your prince we were sold all that 
and so that was really the story The the 
myth of romantic love that we were 
fed right we should be swept off our 
feet there should be grandiose gestures 
because this is Prince Charming and I 
like to say what happens when you get 
swept off your feet you land on your 
back looking up like what the hell just 
happened right that's great great way to 
say it 
100% And so so now you're 
engaged yeah get married is anything in 
your gut saying anything right now in 
retrospect oh yeah yeah you know this is 
the hard thing is that all of this 
romance is going on and all this Um 
passion and 
intimacy is going on simultaneously 
while the coercive control was starting 
and that's why it's so confusing because 
the two things were going on at once and 
we call that you know intermittent 
reinforcement I didn't know that back 
then but um what was happening is he 
started the dominating behavior of if 
you don't marry if you don't marry me 
I'm not going to date you if you don't 
have kids I'm not going to marry you and 
so all the threats started which I was 
very upset about initially but I could 
never set boundaries with him or fight 
him and so and then I just like oh he 
just loves me so much but my gut I did a 
video about this when he gave when he 
asked me to get married we got engaged 
my gut said uh 
oh wow 
unbelievable talk about something you 
just made casual reference to and I know 
this is seminal in your work and for all 
of us talk about trauma bonds and 
intermittent 
reinforcement yes yes so so intermittent 
reinforcement is actually what creates 
the the emotional connection in the 
trauma bonds ironically because it's 
when your partner is about 70% of the 
time they're cruel controlling 
dominating intimidating threatening and 
then 30% of the time they're generous 
and helpful and kind and so and they're 
both extreme behaviors that cause 
extreme feelings in US 
that actually create the bond that is 
the trauma Bond that's what creates it 
and I write about this in my book that 
there's research with um animal trainers 
who use intermittent reinforcement with 
their animals the animals Bond 230% more 
than trainers that use straight 
kindness so we know it makes people 
Bond now you wouldn't think it but it 
just it does because you never know 
what's coming it's not really a cycle of 
abuse because you never know when it's 
coming and so it keeps you on your toes 
and it keeps you hoping and wanting that 
initial love bombing stage you're always 
kind of reaching back for that and so 
that's one of the conditions that has to 
be present for a trauma bond to 
exist it's almost like some of those 
studies that talk about slot machines 
and why they're addictive yes right it's 
like you sit there and you put your 
money in you pull the handle again again 
and again and you feel like I fed it 
enough coins that the payout is coming 
if I just stick it out a little longer 
is that is that a good is that a 
metaphor it's it's it's a great metaphor 
and again you know it's the beginning of 
the romance when all the dopamine is 
going and you're just so ecstatic and so 
it's really hard to make sense of what's 
really happening when those extreme 
behaviors are occurring cuz we could get 
into a huge fight and then the next day 
I look in my driveway and I like a 
horseback ride there'd be a 
horse so I'm like is he good or is he 
bad you're like my pony I got my horse 
it's dizy right right you know so it's 
it's very hard to make sense of really 
what's happening and if you're a 
trusting individual such as myself 
you don't recognize that those are big 
red 
flags I love that you're correcting this 
because I think a lot of people maybe 
you can tell me if these this can be a 
dual definition that trauma bonding 
sometimes people feel like oh well I had 
a narcissistic dad and you had a 
narcissistic dad so we're bonding over 
our trauma that trauma bonding that's 
not it no no so it has to have the 
intermittent abuse and it has to have 
the second condition which is a power in 
balance 
so the power and balance can occur if 
somebody has more resources like clearly 
he a power and balance can occur simply 
because you love someone they have power 
over you we hope they don't abuse it but 
they do and also also what happened with 
us he gains a lot of power over me 
because he was so dominating and 
threatening and 
intimidating I would fear 
him so those two pieces have to be there 
for a trauma bond to 
so it was his personality it was his 
financial status it was like he was the 
son yeah definitely and I had to revolve 
around him I could have NOS I couldn't 
have boundaries and I'm a very strong 
independently willed woman but again I 
was just no match for 
him right right I completely hear you so 
okay so I digressed a little bit off the 
road come back and tell your story so 
now your guts going off but you get 
married 6 months later or 6 months you 
get engaged 6 months after dating 
married six months later yeah yeah so we 
got the Eng my stomach said uh oh we 
took the Concord to Paris that was when 
the Concord was still around so again 
you know the the extravagant lifestyle 
and the love bombing just you know 
continuing continuing and then six 
months later yeah we got 
married we got married 
and um we got in a huge fight the night 
before our wedding because because he' 
wanted me to get pregnant I did get 
pregnant I did have a miscarriage but 
you know here this guy is telling me I 
want to get married I want to have a 
baby and then he's 
wasted you know the night before our 
wedding and I got of course furious with 
him but I had 200 people we got married 
in anguila on the island and I was like 
okay I guess here we go 
so it was Rocky from the beginning but 
again mixed it was so Rocky mixed with 
all these extreme gestures of 
love right and so it's like some it it's 
like you don't know North from South at 
that point no and I was 
23 at that point right I knew nothing 
anyway right right right and like you 
said you had a great mom good dad kind 
of bopped in and out a little bit so so 
nothing really you you had things to go 
on but not you know it's like okay and 
we have Disney that takes over like okay 
I guess this is it and this is what I 
have to do and now how 
did the drugs did it just get worse and 
worse like you said they started out 
with Quaaludes I had to I heard an 
interview with you because I was like 
what is a Quaalude you're like it's like 
a sedative but it's amazing 
I know but it's not good to do drugs and 
it happen like with most 
addictions starts out 
slow right they're Insidious they build 
and they build and they build and you 
know when you're dealing with somebody 
who has a lot of money and a lot of 
power um and everybody's saying yes to 
them right and I had knew nothing about 
addiction of course and so the addiction 
just like the coercive control and the 
abuse just 
escalated wow and so now you have baby 
number one baby number two which and you 
know kids are amazing but they don't 
make anything 
easier no and you know that's what 
happens a lot of times in these 
relationships you know you have a big 
fight you feel violated your boundaries 
AC crossed you don't feel heard then you 
wake up and you have kid to take care of 
you have family coming over for Easter 
right life like and then you're just 
like oh hope is the hook he he he'll be 
better next week or he says he's going 
to change and so you just stay and you 
stay at least I did and I think it's 
very common with the women that I work 
with 
and do you find that you know let's say 
it's 3070 that intermittent 
reinforcement we live for the 30 but 
over time the 30 goes to 20 and then it 
goes to 10 and you're getting crumbs and 
that's how and we just that's how it is 
is that yeah right say that's very 
accurate yeah for sure and he would just 
he just got crazier and crazier and 
crazier um how how did he get crazier 
tell us he just got 
more how can I say this he just you know 
in the beginning I talk about how they 
wear a 
mask right we I we used to call it Dr 
Jackal Mr Hyde but none of my young 
girls know that so now I call it dirty 
John and Romeo makes it easier for them 
and so you know the mask just slips more 
often dirty John the the the the bad 
part just becomes more and more apparent 
because they can't keep it on all the 
time right and so and you know in a 
relationship we all have emotional needs 
so anytime I really expressed a need it 
wasn't met so then you so loss of self 
is a huge thing in a trauma Bond because 
you really you become a shell of a 
person because this person just becomes 
more dominating more controlling and 
it's all about 
them and that just started to just build 
now again with some little perks thrown 
in right for sure every now you get that 
glimmer you get that little 
cookie going and I and I remember had a 
huge fight one night and I said to him 
you know the only reason anybody puts up 
with you is for the perks oh wow that 
didn't go well oh what happened oh he 
got he he had he had like like rage like 
a tsunami he left the house he didn't 
come home for a day because he knew it 
was 
Tri right it's like you're buying people 
yeah I spoke the truth right and you 
know that's one thing that when you're 
with a person like this the more 
defensive they get the trer you know 
what you said to them it's real oh yeah 
and the more they rage more they rage 
and I didn't go up a house with any 
yelling so this anger and rage to me was 
I I was in a new land that I had I'm 
like I've never been in this land so 
hence why I put myself right in 
therapy so I put myself right in therapy 
the beginning of the marriage because I 
like I have no idea what's happening 
did your mom what did your mom say about 
all of this if your mom was reading 
Freud and house talking about your 
feelings was she losing her mind 
watching yes yes when I first got 
engaged she said she took me to lunch 
she goes you know you don't have to do 
this wow and I was like no but I do I 
love him you know that young girl 
Ridiculousness oh yeah she was um yeah 
she was very concerned but nobody could 
through to me no no we're you're you're 
under the spell yes I'm in a trans I'm 
in a trance so she couldn't get through 
it to me till she did till she did yeah 
and now speaking of till she did let's 
Flash Forward things get crazier the 
drugs get worse all of the things the 
partying and now what finally what was 
the straw that broke the camels back for 
you yeah I have three 
okay let's talk about the three straws I 
had three I had one I told him you have 
to get sober not going to sit here and 
watch you kill yourself like all of 
these yes men are doing for you and he 
went crazy so I'm going to leave you if 
you don't get sober um he took my 
jewelry and clothing lit them in the 
fire you know in the fireplace he 
literally just took yourself mov yeah 
and just and did that and then he got um 
violent with me and there the scene in 
the movie doesn't really depict what 
happened but he told me he was going to 
take my daughter and I tried to chase 
after him and he kicked me down the 
stairs but luckily I was really young 
and in good shape and I chased him out 
and he drove us both into the garage but 
at that point the police had come and so 
they took him away and he did go to 
rehab so that was great but then a year 
later he got 
arrested and I just 
said I knew he I knew I was safe once he 
got arrested because I knew he couldn't 
hurt me anymore and I knew he couldn't 
he was clearly indicative that he was 
the more troubled person and I was not 
and so I left and in between the time 
that he kicked me down the stairs and he 
got arrested I confronted him about all 
the pain that I had endured and I said 
you know that was really hard your drug 
addiction uh the the the abuse the rage 
and he goes wasn't that 
bad and so the lack of remorse which oh 
yeah I didn't know the word callousness 
and I didn't know the word you know I 
didn't know what callousness was but I 
can still picture myself sitting in that 
Japanese restaurant and something inside 
closing so those were my three straws 
the violence the callousness and then 
once he was arrested I was like bye so 
that was it you're like I'm pulling the 
plug do not resuscitate peace out I'm 
out yeah I was done I was done yeah okay 
so you get your kids you go he goes he 
stays clean after that he stays yeah he 
stays clean yep he stays clean he um we 
had two homes so he went to The Hamptons 
and I stayed in my house and um it was 
great I felt free I can only imagine and 
things got better over 
time yeah you know the funny thing I 
mean listen he did not want to get 
divorced um for sure he didn't go to 
jail he didn't get sentenced till five 
or six years later which is quite common 
with that and the interesting part is 
we've pretty much almost always gotten 
along since 
then which is great because it's 
wonderful for my kids yeah yeah but you 
know if we talk about the power 
imbalance once he got arrested we were 
even and once that power imbalance 
shifted right yeah it changed 
everything 
and I'm not sure if it would mean that 
he could actually start to take 
accountability for his actions but it 
sounds like the power came more towards 
the center that's right right I don't 
know that 
he'll really take full accountability 
for that but it didn't matter because I 
was gone you were done yeah I was done 
that was it that was it you're still 
young you're in your early 30s at this 
point yes I'm in my early 30s yep and I 
got two little babies you know they're 
five and three and luckily though in my 
marriage I had started a little business 
so I had a maternity company with a 
website and a catalog and a little store 
so I had started to build my 
Independence and so I had that when I 
left 
him and um then about two years later or 
a year and a half later I met my current 
husband and he lived in California and I 
was like we're 
moving wow because he couldn't stop me 
from moving which was great because I 
wanted my kids to have a fresh 
start and I didn't want them to deal 
with that Legacy that had nothing to do 
with them and so we moved and nobody 
knew anything 
California oh my gosh and how did you 
meet your husband on a blind date okay 
you didn't have to Bumble or hinge it up 
no I I went on a lot of dates before 
that trust me I was having fun 
dating God I was having way too much fun 
but um yeah on a blind date and we had a 
great first blind date he has he had 
three little kids I had two we were both 
in the Garment business 
and yeah we're together now 25 years 
that's 
amazing um well and okay so in your 
healing you not only went to therapy but 
you have taken on a new career tell us 
about this yeah so you know therapy was 
so I always say I believe therapy saved 
my 
life because it really allowed me to 
manage so much chaos 
and after I left Jordan I went to a 
clinic called the Karen foundation and 
did a week-long program called 
breakthrough to really like because when 
you're in a trauma Bond you're so 
obsessed with the other person because 
you have to be so when I work with my 
patients I say you know turn the M 
mirror back on you which is what I did 
and so therapy and um deep psychological 
reflection had been such an important 
part of my healing that at 39 I said I'm 
going to go back to school become a 
therapist and you did and I did I got my 
masters got my doctorate and uh started 
yeah a great little Private Practice in 
Manhattan Beach 
California amazing I love I love your 
life well talk about um you you wrote a 
book which I love the title run like 
hell so we're not mincing word here 
words here ladies and gentlemen if you 
see this character 
run like hell so talk about you call 
them the pathological lover the 
narcissistic pathological lover talk a 
little bit about this right you might 
have had a little bit of an experience 
with it but just pretend yeah just a 
little bit you know a little bit is when 
I started my practice my practice 
developed I really never wanted a 
specialty it's so funny how things we 
resist happen but I kept seeing all 
these smart Bright Beautiful kind 
amazing women in trauma 
bonds right betrayed abused controlled 
lied to manipulated and I said okay I 
got to go back to the research me the 
academic and in 2019 I read an amazing 
book called women who love 
Psychopaths by Sandra L Brown and the 
way she had written about the female in 
the trauma Bond really um Turned its 
head on the whole thing that I had read 
so far um and so I just kept digging 
digging digging and doing all this 
research on the dark tetrad and I came 
to understand that these men are not 
just narcissistic and we hear that word 
thrown around so much but I call them 
pathological because pathological means 
mentally 
unwell and I believe that anybody that 
will lie betray harm exploit 
um and control people that they love to 
get their needs met for money power 
pleasure and Status are mentally 
unwell and so they're usually just a lot 
more than a 
narcissist wow a lot more and you just 
mentioned something the dark tetrad talk 
about that yeah so the dark tetrad um 
was a term that came to be in about 2002 
and it's it's an umbrella term for 
people that have lent 
intentions and so it includes narcissism 
psychopathy 
machanism and 
sadism and all of these traits kind of 
mingle you know cross and mingle and so 
that's what I was really seeing with 
these 
characters that sometimes you know they 
were very Mach abellan I mean if you 
think about Jordan he 
manipulated me to go on that first 
meeting that's pretty 
mellan to pay somebody 
$15,000 and it's like the ultimate bait 
and switch Yeah Yeah and then 
psychopathy is the callousness and the 
boldness and the fearlessness and the 
and the 
impulsivity then you have narcissism 
where you have vulnerable and grandiose 
narcissism and Satanism not everybody 
has that that's a really sick person who 
gets uh joy out of just harming people 
that they know 
but then they can have a substance use 
disorder right they are 
impulsive they can have a sex addiction 
or gambling addiction like a compulsive 
process disorder and they can have a 
mood disorder so they're much more than 
just a narcissist so that's why I came 
up with the term pathological lover 
because people need to understand that 
there are bad people out there that you 
could be dating yeah that don't present 
like that 
let me ask you a question you know I've 
been date coaching men and women for 15 
years and work a lot with probably a 
very similar client base and patient 
base that you have do you think that as 
people become more successful in their 
careers they can start out as a decent 
good human being I've seen this with 
some of my clients they marry their 
college sweethearts they're both you 
know two sticks together to try to make 
life and then he becomes more and more 
successful over time and there's a you 
know and something that because I I 
can't go back and be in the marriage and 
watch the development so I'm hearing 
reports from what happens later it's 
like no he was great for the first 10 
years or 20 years but then something 
shifted can that 
happen yeah because I think that this 
person also is very entitled and can 
think that they're Superior and I think 
that arrogance well I know that 
arrogance is a huge part of this 
personality it's part of the antagonism 
so yeah I think that as a person becomes 
more arrogant they lose their humility 
yeah and it can lend them to not be very 
kind to to their lovers and they can 
become you know they can become this 
pathological person so the disease the 
posos can be there from the GetGo or it 
can develop at any yeah I think it was 
probably a little bit there there were 
seedlings in there that may be like you 
know genetic 
expression expressed yet but yeah sure I 
mean I mean money corrupts yeah money 
gives power right 100% And like you're 
saying when you're with someone who 
doesn't hear 
no that's right from anybody in their 
lives and the more powerful you get that 
you have a smaller and smaller tranch of 
people if anybody that say no to you 
that's right that's right and if you and 
if they've been with somebody for a long 
time and the passion has died down and 
they become more complacent towards them 
right they can really devalue them and 
just like I'm not listening to you yeah 
yeah exactly and sometimes many of them 
to your point they don't want to get 
divorced they're like well I just want 
to have my cake and eat it too but on 
the rare occasion somebody will you know 
the person typically the man will blow 
up his life and say I want a divorce 
I've met someone else right and you're 
like what the hell just happened right 
or they want like you say or they want 
to or they feel entitled to have the 
double standard because double are 
abusive Lindy bankr taught me that and 
um and they're like no I can be married 
and have extra marital but you can right 
of course not and you need to be okay 
with this because this is part of the 
arrangement that's right right here's an 
envelope full of some money go shop and 
here's our new Arrangement 
right right but that's you know we're 
emotional beings and we build we'll 
build for attachment so that usually 
doesn't last 
You Are there women Dr Nay that are more 
susceptible to this yes and I and I was 
one of them and I did not know that and 
that's what I learned from Sandra 
Brown's work um she she was test she was 
working with women who were in these 
trauma bonds but she was working with 
professional women more like lawyers or 
doctors or just professional women and 
she noticed that she gave them all 
this five Factor model of Personality 
assessment which I have on my website 
and it measures openness 
conscientiousness agreeableness 
neuroticism 
extraversion and I'm sure I'm missing 
one neuroticism extraversion I missing 
one no I don't think so so it spells 
ocean if anybody wants to look it up and 
what she discovered is that women that 
score very high in agreeableness and 
conscientiousness are pray and magnets 
for these men 
because they're agreeable meaning 
they're loyal and tolerant and they're 
pro-social people like me where 
relationships are everything to me hence 
why I'm a therapist and I'm my same best 
friend since I'm 
six and they're conscientiousness 
they're very conscientious meaning 
they're organized they're 
diligent um they will get things done 
and they will see things through which 
is great except for you're in a trauma 
mind and so what she discovered is a lot 
I think she says in her research 
70% and I've started to see the pattern 
in my practice because I give Every 
Woman the assessment that comes to me so 
I can educate them now they all don't 
fall for that some are more dependent 
and have a different personality types 
where they score high some are some do 
have more developmental trauma so their 
uh results look different but 
when I saw that I was like oh my God 
okay this makes sense 
because if a woman comes to me and she's 
kind and talling and loyal I'm not going 
to therapize that out of her I'm not 
going to shame her no I'm GNA stigmatize 
her and that's one of the reasons why I 
wrote my book was because I was so sick 
of the victim being stigmatized totally 
100% And to your 
point these are successful professional 
women as well as others but if you have 
these personality characteristics as 
you're talking about them like wow 
extroverted conscientious agreeable I'm 
like check check yeah the work that we 
both do right and it's like right and so 
often you're right I do see a lot of 
people that come from the service 
professions that tend to fall prey to 
these kinds of characters because I call 
them I I simplify it to some extent I 
say you know what givers and takers 
sometimes have a magnet to each other 
yes yeah yeah and that's the title of my 
fourth chapter opposites to 
attract right and so so if you think 
about it pathological lover is highly 
antagonistic a highly agreeable person 
is perfect for them 
you antagonistic people you'll have 
World War II right great chemistry for 
about four to six months and then world 
war three because you can't have two 
people grabbing the wheel of the car 
that's right that's right you have to 
have one that's like it's okay honey you 
do it and I was that person and again 
you know not because I'm weak it's just 
because it's my temperament yeah right 
it's my temperament um you know now I've 
gotten stronger of course say I'm a 56y 
old woman wom um that's changed a little 
bit but also women are socialized to be 
more like that right 100% um and do you 
see men that fall free to female 
pathological for sure yeah me too oh 
yeah yeah yeah I mean I write my book 
you know in that you know like focusing 
on women but of course it's crosses 
genders you know any sexual orientation 
right people are people yeah it's just 
the research has been more about women 
because you know we live in a patriarchy 
right in these heteronormative 
relationships but I've seen right gay 
women that have beened up with a 
pathological awful partner and try to 
extricate themselves and it's no 
different than what you described y 
right no it's it's and this is the thing 
and I say this to people it can happen 
to anyone and 
everyone now let's say it's happened how 
can you heal before you get back into 
the dating world because 
you did a lot of healing a lot of work 
on yourself I'm going to surmise in 
order to a couple years post divorce to 
meet this amazing man who is lovely and 
loving and how did you how were you a 
able to make that shift to someone who 
is normal and didn't like activate your 
entire nervous 
system well you know when you've been in 
a trauma Bond I always think you never 
want to be in one again so you will 
really do anything to not endure that 
again because it's very painful so I 
like I said I got really curious I 
learned a lot about 
myself and um what I did was I just 
learn to trust myself more as much as 
it's about learning to trust others 
again because you do have to do that 
after you've been terribly betrayed but 
I just learned to trust myself more 
again um because I had done the work and 
you know back then again nobody was 
really talking about this not even in my 
own 
therapy but yeah I just learned about 
myself I learned about my attachment 
pattern I learned about um I learned how 
to set boundaries you know I I didn't 
even know what a boundary was till I was 
31 no I was talking about that I was 
like wait I can say 
no yeah like thank you to really find my 
voice and I say this to my patients you 
don't find your voice to change anybody 
you find your voice because you have to 
give you have to give your Truth voice 
yeah and however behave they behave and 
so I just got older and more mature as 
we do right and just got stronger and 
that's doesn't mean my marriage is not 
perfect far from it but we've both been 
willing to change and grow 
together absolutely and so for people to 
heal it's work and it's going through 
therapy is there if you find yourself in 
trauma bonds once or many of my clients 
have been repetitively in a trauma Bond 
because I think human beings can be 
creatures of habit and as much as you 
know 
well I know what a narcissist is I've 
had people come to me like I you know I 
had a woman on my podcast um who became 
a client who said I was married to a 
narcissist and I did all the therapy I 
did eat prey love I traveled the world I 
was dating myself and I got into my next 
relationship and married him and he was 
a worse narcissist than the first yeah 
that's that's terrible well you know I 
think you have to go to a trauma inform 
therapist um I think there's EMDR that 
you can do and you really need to 
understand what your personality traits 
are are you reenacting developmental 
trauma or are you wired you know with 
this agreeableness and conscientiousness 
what's your attachment pattern and you 
really need to understand yourself and 
also learn about relationships I mean we 
go to school to learn about reading 
writing and 
arithmetic but the fourth our 
relationships are the foundation of our 
lives and people say to me why' you get 
your PhD I said just to deal with my 
family now the work on the side is great 
but relationships are really 
challenging you know and so come to 
people like you or like me that you know 
we've made this our life's work and and 
and reach out for help and don't isolate 
and don't be ashamed because it's just 
part of the journey and we don't know 
how to do it right and that's okay and 
that's okay and what we do for people 
that have come out of these trauma bonds 
you it's provide that gentle 
supportive that's good that's not good 
you would laugh I think I told you when 
we were prepping for or offline before 
we got on we take a nerdy Finance person 
and turn them into a dating coach we 
have graphs for what healthy 
relationship trajectory love it what 
narcissists look like what Failure to 
Launch avoidance look like so and 
scorecards helping to I love that 
capture your feelings right in the 
moment because you know when you have 
been through Little T Big T trauma maybe 
it started at home maybe it was in your 
marriages we tend to over time greenwash 
those red flags right paint them green 
because that's how we survived because 
that's how you deal with the 
70% BS is you you rationalize it you 
know what I'm probably being too picky I 
don't think that was a red flag I'm not 
going to tell Bella and then six weeks 
later they're like did I for did I tell 
you that on our nth day that he didn't 
show up because he was blackout drunk 
and I waited I was like you did not yeah 
tell me that so D dating scorecards were 
developed immediately and like for it 
after because then when 
we time info then I'm like we're g to be 
able to help you with good inputs I need 
you to trust your body to trust your 
instincts write them down in this format 
and then we're going to help you so 
that's we I always tell my clients we're 
going to wrap you in pink sparkly bubble 
wrap and make sure that you don't get 
dinged up during this process while 
we're trying to get up love Mountain 
we're going to help you stay away from 
dumpster fire relationships and what's 
better than that yeah and and you bring 
up a good point you know I got my doctor 
in somatic Psychotherapy and what I tell 
my patients is like the true self lives 
from here to here like I'm putting my 
hands to my fixs right on my from my 
throat to my pelvis and like start to 
trust this right because this comes up 
with ridiculous Stories the brain you 
know we've reified the brain and just 
made it the most important thing and 
made thoughts the most important thing 
but really the body doesn't lie and 
don't override it and and listen to that 
it's very 
important n every client I have that 
comes from you know a divorce something 
traumatic I'm like when did you see the 
red flags 
99% of them were like oh they were there 
from the beginning there right we drive 
by them yeah right and what happens in 
the dating process and this is why we 
really slow things down we have rules 15 
dates until exclusivity and that's over 
three months and the graphs show why and 
it's really to Watch What Happens date 
overd situation by situation and what 
happens is when you slow down a process 
and you know that you have guides around 
you you become more confident in 
yourself yes yes and that's slowing down 
is so key because I always say intensity 
is not intimacy amen and when we narrow 
down our choices too quickly as Disney 
tells us get swept off your feet there's 
a three dat rule wham bam thank you 
ma'am done you're oxytocin bondage 
you've got blinders on and that why 
we're not dumb what do we do the 
obsessive nature of romantic love allows 
us to sweep the red flags under the rug 
but we knew we had a broom in our hands 
we just didn't want to say it it's like 
sweep sweep sweep yep they were there 
here's the carpet the red flags were 
there from the gecko were there yeah and 
when you combine that with the thing 
that we are social beings we're wired 
for connection we're wired for love and 
really that's what everybody just wants 
to belong and be loved 
and it's hard I love your system oh my 
God I got so many 
referrals oh yeah we've had zero 
divorces in 15 
years that's so good it's well you know 
when you measure three times cut once 
yeah right and sometimes our clients are 
like come on it's been six days I'm like 
nope you will just trust us we 
trust fall we will not we will net the 
bad guys in 15 days right because people 
that are narcissistic avoidant typically 
if you're watching for it what I've seen 
is at the latest four months post 
exclusivity you start to see the cracks 
in the armor if you look for that's when 
I started to see it yep I need to do it 
of course and it's okay because I have 
two beautiful children and I was young 
but yeah know especially if you've been 
divorced and you're back in the dating 
scene what a great system I love this 
because I'm very data driven as well you 
know my book has I don't even know how 
many references in it because it's 
research based and that's what we have 
to go off research matters data matters 
research matters data matters Dr Nay 
where can we get more of you oh you're 
so sweet we could talk forever this is 
way too much fun so you can find me at 
the real do a on Instagram I post daily 
I answer all my direct messages I love 
my community we' built a really safe 
beautiful Community there um dr.com go 
to my website I have tons of free 
resources tons of free assessments 
because you have to take tons of 
Assessments to get to know yourself you 
can't just rely on this to be reflective 
right you need data and um Tik Tock 
which is so crazy Dr Nay lmft I call it 
the wild west of the internet and that's 
really it yeah you can get my book 
anywhere Amazon I always I do a post 
where if you're in a trauma Bond get the 
ebook right or get the audio book keep 
yourself safe um yeah and I just feel 
blessed to do what I do oh you are doing 
God's work and a blessing to the world 
so what an amazing story you have and 
someday you're going to write your own 
autobiography cuz you're story is 
amazing and so inspiring and I'm 
grateful that you came on to share with 
us about your pivot and smart daters if 
you want to be inspired just sit back 
and think about what Dr Nay did with her 
life the Hellfire she walked through to 
heal find a great partner have a blended 
family with five kids and get her 
doctorate that is some badass stuff and 
you had Margo Robbie play you 
against Leo and with Martin score Cy you 
have led a very big amazing life and if 
you don't tell yourself that I want you 
to know I see you a thank you so much so 
lovely lovely to meet you the pleasure 
was all mine smart daters get inspired 
do something big and awesome for 
yourself that brings you Joy this week 
and if you love this episode rate it 
tell us why you loved it because we read 
every sing single one until our next 
episode we will see you again 
