[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your life Welcome Back 
I hope that you've had a great week and 
that you have celebrated you and all of 
the awesomeness in your week and if you 
haven't I want you to think to yourself 
right now what are three great things 
that have happened to me or three things 
I'm looking forward to okay take a 
minute and I want you to put yourself 
into the most positive headspace that 
you can because we have some really 
positive amazing information to impart 
on you so we're going to Dive Right In 
and because she's so friggin fantastic 
I'm bringing Lindsay Anderson my right 
hand blonde-haired blue-eyed soulmate 
she's the Luke Skywalker to my Darth 
Vader as I like to say and I brought her 
back because we've never done this 
before and the secrets to successful 
dating was so crazily lusciously packed 
with information that we couldn't get it 
all jammed into one so we are now 
bringing you in to episode two for even 
more secrets now yes there is a part one 
and don't freak out and think you have 
to listen to this this is not the Star 
Wars and The Empire Strikes Back you can 
listen to this episode and go back and 
listen to last week's episode you'll be 
fine so with no further Ado Lindsay 
welcome back to the podcast 
thank you thank you I'm so excited this 
has been so fun I I am really happy that 
we have a chance to do this and if you 
know Bella and I you know that we could 
have conversations that could start and 
could carry on for days and days and 
days so I feel very lucky that we could 
divide this up into two point two parts 
so we can try to get out as much as we 
can and who knows there's always more 
stewing in our head so and we are the we 
will give you everything that we have 
and everything that we know to help you 
all with your dating and before so if 
you're wondering okay what is this I 
have to tell you Lindsay has worked with 
me and Smart dating Academy since 2013. 
so we are going on a decade together 
right that's like 3650 days together so 
those of you who know me know I like 
those kinds of numbers but we have 
another really important number to share 
with you in the last six days alone 
we've had ding ding two clients 
message us with engagement rings and 
these are both clients that have worked 
with Lindsay at smartdating Academy in 
me of course so 
um 
Holly text she emailed us yesterday 
saying that while she was on a hike with 
her amazing boyfriend they got engaged 
and Lindsay you and I were talking a 
little bit before the microphone went on 
is Holly was an ideal client because she 
followed the process exactly so tell us 
about that she did I mean Holly is well 
everyone is who knows Holly is lucky she 
is truly a lovely warm smart engaging 
woman and she came to us with dating 
patterns just like all of our clients 
who enlist our help they come to us 
trying to figure out why they are so 
successful at work and why this piece of 
getting what they want out of 
relationships isn't working for them and 
Holly is she was incredibly coachable 
and she is coachable which is I think 
why she does so well at work but she was 
really good at saying listen I have 
invested in this I'm going to listen to 
what you guys say even if I'm not sure I 
want to do it I'll just tell you I don't 
know this is a little bit weird and 
she'll keep going so what Holly did 
she hit a couple of the tenements we 
talked about last week where she really 
made sure that she kept other daters in 
the mix and she didn't lock him down 
right away when he first showed up so 
she always had a good pipeline she 
compared and she contrast there was one 
guy who seemed a little more exciting at 
first and of course spoil alert she 
ended up with the steady guy who was 
consistent who showed up who is lovely 
and thoughtful and kind and considerate 
and it was easy and that was the big 
word that Holly kept saying she's like 
I've never dated anybody where it's felt 
this easy and honestly I couldn't be 
thrilled but she was really good at 
pacing her dating life keeping other 
people in the mix not jumping in too 
soon not going all in making sure she 
had the conversations ahead of time 
about what they both wanted long term so 
they knew they were working towards a 
future together 
and then there's a whole lot more 
because we got to work together for a 
long time but she's fabulous and I'm 
really excited for them both and for 
those of you that are curious 
um I'll post in the show notes the story 
of Holly because she's given us 
permission and she wrote this cute 
little 
um this cute little statement about what 
she did and how she found love so if 
you're curious about that there will be 
a link in the show notes where you can 
read about the magical Holly and just 
sit right now before we get into this 
and know that good things are coming for 
you you're smart enough to listen to 
this smart podcast you're smart enough 
to know you want to make those kinds of 
changes so I what I want you to do is 
get psychotically optimistic right now 
and say if it happened for Holly it's 
gonna happen for me it's a when it's not 
an if and now that you're in that mind 
space and you're feeling the little 
tinglies and you're feeling the warm hug 
Lindsey and I are saying sending you 
across the Audio Waves we're going to 
Dive Right In and talk to you about the 
reciprocal we kind of ended with this a 
little bit but I want to Circle back to 
this Lindsay where there's smoke there 
is fire this is and this is one of the 
things we tell our clients all the time 
and this is something my dad taught me 
young you know what and what is what 
does it mean where there's smoke there's 
fire it's like when you start to see 
that something's a little weird right 
when you look up in the sky and you see 
that plume of black you're like huh 
that's not probably a bunch of cicadas 
flying around there's there's a fire 
somewhere underneath there so when you 
start to see people that are not 
behaving well I think what you've got 
yourself there is you're netting 
somebody that might be narcissistic that 
might not be emotionally available or 
just might be a dog gonger so let's talk 
a little bit about that what have you 
what have you seen with with with red 
flags Lindsay where our clients are 
successful and where they can turn this 
around what are the red flags that they 
start to detect and throw back to the 
pond yes well I think the fun thing is 
every single week I am helping people 
see those red flags in their individual 
dating situation so if I even just went 
back to this week alone I'm like I have 
a checklist already in place so even 
just one thing I was talking about with 
a client yesterday is just that idea 
that what starts fast often ends fast 
and a big red flag to us is somebody who 
really wants to rush into a relationship 
right away and they want to lock you 
down quickly and they want to go all in 
they are very focused on their own needs 
their own wants and they don't when you 
put a boundary around taking things 
slowly meaning you have a great date on 
a Monday and they ask you out for 
Wednesday and you say I'd love to go out 
with you on Wednesday I just can't I 
could see you next week 
the smoke fire are the ones who are 
saying you know what no oh you is this 
not a priority to you are you not going 
to make time wait what are you doing 
where are you going are you seeing other 
people and they try to make you feel 
guilty if you don't give them enough 
time right away so I saw that already 
earlier this week 
um and it's controlling that is 
controlling Behavior right if you want 
to control what someone else is saying 
if like Lindsay's saying if we tell our 
clients that was a great date and they 
want to ask you out again for tomorrow 
and you punt to next week and if they 
start to behave that way it's a red flag 
on them but the Insidious part of this 
is it'll make you feel like especially 
if you're coming from that scarcity 
mindset like you've got to take this 
good one while it's hot and what we will 
tell you is the perfect litmus test is 
when you've had a great date and when 
they think it's a great date and they 
want to see you right away 
push it out just a little bit we're not 
saying months we're saying not tomorrow 
or the day after and see how they react 
and of course we're going to give you 
script and we do around how to say that 
so that the person feels good about it 
and they don't feel like their priority 
B and C but if someone wigs at you for 
doing that and for not being as into 
this as you are and and that is 100 
a red flag and even now let's Flash 
Forward even if 
this person was great in the beginning 
now let's say by the sixth date okay or 
the seventh date or the eighth date they 
want to pull you off the market they 
want to be exclusive but you're not 
ready for this yet you can tell them you 
know what I'm really enjoying being with 
you I'm enjoying the dating process but 
I don't want to make mistakes that I've 
made in the past and take responsibility 
see how that person reacts to you 
slowing things down and if their 
reaction is negative if it is judgmental 
critical a little disappointment is okay 
I'll take disappointment like oh okay 
you know what I'm a little bummed about 
that but you know what I want you to 
feel like you're good and I want you to 
feel comfortable so I'll go along with 
that okay A little disappointment is 
fine would you agree absolutely and I I 
think what we see is a lot of 
consistency the good people who really 
want to be in relationships will be 
really respectful of your pace they will 
like you a little more and they'll 
realize that you're worth waiting for 
and if you need to slow it down they're 
like okay I'm good I'll take as much 
time as you need to feel comfortable you 
know with the pushiness a client um she 
had gone out with the guy I just talked 
to her yesterday about 
seven dates or so and she had gone out 
of town she just came back so they set 
up a date after and he got incredibly 
pushy about wanting to come up to her 
apartment at the end of the day no all 
right if you are a smart dater and 
you're in our mix you know we talk a lot 
about do not have people up into your 
apartment until you are exclusive hold 
off on all of that 
because it starts because things will go 
off the rails and everyone gets a little 
physical and she just said listen I 
really like you like where things are 
going I'm just I don't I don't I don't I 
don't feel comfortable having you up 
today but I'm really I know we have 
plans tomorrow I'm excited to see you 
tomorrow and he started playing the 
victim oh I just don't think you like me 
enough why won't you you know I'll just 
come up she's like I'm tired he said 
it's okay I'll I'll leave when you fall 
asleep it was and he kept pushing and 
pushing and pushing being respectful of 
her back 
and then he bit he started to flip it on 
her a little bit she's like wait maybe I 
was like no no no you were you stated 
what your line was and he kept pushing 
that is a red flag anybody who doesn't 
respect your boundaries is a big red 
flag anybody who's so focused on what 
they want and not looking at what's 
helpful to build move things forward 
together red flag and then he got and 
then she knows the change in Behavior he 
got a little snippy with her and then he 
just walked away in a huff 
oh bad oh yeah we're giving him the 
goodbye sandwich we're letting him go 
let me ask you this were there red flags 
before the date the seventh date so 
that's what's interesting anybody he 
started off pretty well so we talk about 
this a lot when you're dating people you 
don't know in those first few dates if 
this person's going to be Go the 
Distance with you because I think that 
up front you are we always talk about 
how you're dating the representative 
people know how to present themselves in 
the beginning obvious red flags will 
come out right away but sometimes it 
takes a few dates so this was a big 
shift in Behavior I think there were 
enough there wasn't anything obvious but 
her she had been pacing the dates really 
well she'd just been out with them for a 
couple of hours or a date here and there 
at a time and then the pushiness started 
to kick in so you have to date people 
longer to really know who they are who 
so when if somebody says oh he's so 
lovely and wonderful and so trustworthy 
and I'm and like okay well that's date 
number two let's give it some time and 
just see let's give it some time 
remember there's no substitute for time 
in the dating process and so often to 
Lindsay's point and great story it's we 
want to make these snap judgments and 
this dude looked fine until this moment 
right and then he flipped so guess what 
if we would have played by three day 
rule okay if we would have said yeah 
he's amazing let's put you in let's be 
exclusive which is kind of what he 
wanted from the get-go imagine what 
would have happened right at that point 
you might sleep together your oxytocin 
bonded you now 
start ignoring red flags you start 
making excuses for the things that you 
don't like right because now you're in 
and you're chemically bonded so there's 
so much wisdom in slowing things down 
and letting people remember ladies and 
gentlemen a person needs to earn you 
absolutely say that again Bella that is 
so important they need to earn you right 
and in our practice at Smart dating they 
need to earn you and they need to earn 
us at the same time because we're you 
know you're we're your guardian angels 
in the dating World we're your personal 
trainers but people need to earn you and 
earning doesn't come fast right if you 
think about you're going out on three 
dates with somebody if you're you know 
even if you're going on two three hour 
dates you've kind of spent one 
legitimate nine to five work day with 
this person if you add up the cumulative 
hours it's not a lot of time ladies and 
gentlemen that we're listening to you 
know all the bad crappy information 
that's out there like we need to lock 
things down and we've got to do things 
quickly because someone else is going to 
take this person not really I mean what 
do you really know if if your kid said 
on day one of school I hate it here I 
want to come home I just drop my 
daughter off off the college as 
everybody knows because I've told all of 
you and she would have called me thank 
God she didn't day one saying mom I want 
to come home do you think I would have 
been like yeah you know what let's pack 
your dorm up and come on home no it's 
day one you've only been there for a day 
and yet when we go out on three dates 
and spend nine hours with somebody we 
want to make decisions as in yeah I can 
be exclusive with you yeah I can sleep 
with you so I'm putting this into time 
hours so we put some ration to a very 
irrational process which is love yes oh 
you were right and and giving things 
time to really see and watching how 
people behave do their words and their 
actions match are they consistent and 
reliable we talked about this with 
another client this morning that I was 
talking to before this podcast where he 
is 
where this guy is really he's being he's 
showing up in a really great way he's 
being consistent he's asking out he's 
not trying to rush things and when 
you're used to dating people always want 
to rush you're like wait a second what's 
wrong like all right this is good we'll 
see this has potential but we won't know 
until we give it months months of dating 
months of dating that's exactly right 
that's exactly right 
but you said you're going back to people 
need to learn you the way we want you to 
really look at this is we want you to 
believe that you are a cat a complete 
catch and then act like it and act like 
it you are amazing you whoever you meet 
whoever you date they are lucky to meet 
you you have something that you're 
bringing to the table and when you date 
from this place of feeling like he is 
lucky or she is lucky to meet me you 
will allow yourself you won't accept the 
crumbs you won't accept the red flags 
this is a big one 
100 and that leads perfectly into the 
next thing that we want to share with 
you which is 
a person that likes you won't leave you 
guessing why because people make time 
for the things and the people they want 
right 
absolutely and I think that's one of the 
things that being a coach over this 
number of years we start seeing we 
talked about this in the last podcast 
but there are patterns and there's a 
very consistent behavior that way that 
people behave who want to be in 
relationships and when I hear that 
somebody is too busy 
and that oh you know if I start hearing 
excuses from somebody like oh he's just 
so busy with work and he's just so busy 
and you know what he can only fit me in 
this one time this month I I don't I 
don't buy it frankly I don't buy it but 
we look at it as when somebody is ready 
to date they will move mountains to be 
with you even if they do have that crazy 
work project or they have something 
going on they will figure out a small 
pocket of time even if just bringing you 
a cup of coffee we have seen it over and 
over again but someone will always make 
time so if somebody is too busy that's 
probably a sign that maybe they're 
really not in the right headspace and 
just pay attention to it and this is why 
you make sure you're always dating other 
people so that if somebody does get 
caught up in their life and they're not 
ready it doesn't hurt so much we'll talk 
about that but well yeah 
but what we see is that people not only 
are they never too busy today they will 
set up dates in advance they will you'll 
end the date they'll tell you this is 
really fun I'd love to see you again 
they follow up within the next few days 
they immediately set up the next date in 
a very consistent way if they're 
traveling they're like I'm going out of 
town at the end of next week I'd like to 
see you when I get back are you free the 
Monday I return from Sunday night and 
they let you know because they 
communicate in a way that you can 
predict what they're going to do 
it's so true and and let me take that 
further down the time Horizon here 
let's say okay let's go back to our 
example with the client who had been on 
seven dates okay and there's everything 
looks like it's you know let me say it's 
pointing Northbound okay like it's all 
going well now all of a sudden let's say 
this person was incredibly consistent 
and they were reliable and suddenly on 
the 7th 8th 10th 12th date something 
like that suddenly they're like 
they stopped texting at the Cadence that 
they used to text you at the dates seem 
to get longer in between they're not 
communicating as much like oh I'm really 
busy at work any Behavior changes like 
that 
fall under the same category nobody is 
too busy 
I don't care what you say I have told 
the story and I will tell it again for 
the people in the back Andy and I when 
we were dating actually we were dating 
her we were married whatever it was we 
were young and we both were had very 
International jobs where we would travel 
to places for months I've lived in Asia 
for months he lived in Germany for 
months and yet even with long distance 
phone bills back in the day we talked to 
each other every day even when there 
were 14 hour time differences between us 
we found a way to talk every single day 
and if we couldn't we would let the 
other person know why we couldn't do 
that but there is no there was no 
guessing there was Zero guessing and now 
that I think about that sorry we weren't 
married we were dating at that point we 
weren't even engaged he did a stint he 
interned or he was working for Daimler 
Chrysler and stuttgard and I was living 
in Hong Kong in the new territories 
setting up when I used to run the 
non-stick coding company with my family 
setting up a new Factory in a new 
laboratory facility so we were literally 
in Germany in Hong Kong and we continued 
our relationship because we wanted to 
and there was no questions about it so 
anybody who changes behaviors but let's 
say Andy started texting me once a week 
because he's like oh Belle I'm just 
really sorry I just can't talk to you 
because this deal is keeping me so busy 
do you think he didn't have have time 
for a 60 second phone call if you're 
listening to this of course yeah think 
about it are you ever ever ever too busy 
to to communicate with someone you love 
never okay so we'll prioritize it no 
matter what and we'll say and what's 
interesting is too you this is why when 
we go back to giving people a lot of 
time things people can make time in the 
beginning and then they can lock you 
down and you can get in a relationship 
with them but then you want to note in 
this first few months of dating 
exclusively do they stay consistent and 
continue to build time for you or again 
if there's that shift in change in 
Behavior something we've observed is 
between months about months three and 
months four of dating that seems to be 
the magic number when there can first be 
the first crack in the armor if there 
were some red flags that were swept 
under the rug so making sure that you 
really date and give somebody long 
enough to really see are they consistent 
and knowing that of course they things 
occasionally will come up it's the 
question is then do they communicate 
this is happening and then they have 
another plan and they address it and 
then they see you right away afterwards 
but we pay attention to any shifts and 
any changes in behavior for sure 
absolutely and remember a person that 
wants to be with you will move mountains 
to be with you okay so that's it they 
won't leave you guessing Okay 
and accelerators on yeah exactly your 
taxi light is on I love that I'm 
available I'm opening 
now let's 
talk about 
the reciprocal to that okay and 
sometimes we get people that come to us 
with a lot of trauma could be anxiety 
could be you know they've been through 
they've been to Hell and back a lot of 
our clients have had things happen to 
them that I wouldn't wish on anybody and 
maybe you listening have been in that 
space of you the love of your life 
suddenly left you at the altar cheated 
on you you know you built this life 
together and they just said woke up one 
day and said you know what I don't love 
you anymore and that is something awful 
and traumatic to go through and 
sometimes what it leads us or it leaves 
us with 
is a whole snake pit of fears and one of 
the biggest fears that we all have in 
our guts and this isn't just if you've 
been ghosted or cheated on this is 
if you're a second grader if you're an 
11th grader if you're in your 20s 30s 
70s or 80s we're afraid of the r word of 
rejection 
rejection let's let's talk about that 
what do you what do you see Lindsay with 
regards to our clients 
having their dating lives affected by 
their fear of rejection what happens 
yeah 
well the Big R word is the scary word 
and it comes up with every single client 
I work with 
and I say that for all of you who are 
listening because this is a very human 
characteristic I think deep down 
everyone is afraid of rejection 
and having worked with both men women in 
every single age group when you realize 
that it's the same thing that every 
single person is afraid of 
I look at it as almost from a place of 
compassion you're afraid of rejection 
the person you're going on a date with 
they're also equally afraid of it and if 
you're both afraid of the same thing I'd 
like you to visualize the two things 
kind of clashing together and then just 
poof be neutralized 
it is come at it from a place of 
compassion 
what is rejection really rejection is 
something that we create in our minds of 
it's our old story playing out am I good 
enough am I smart enough am I pretty 
enough it's all of those things and 
these are just made up thoughts mind 
monkeys swirling around 
rejection on a deep level 
doesn't happen rejection is about the 
story we're telling ourselves and so the 
way that I look at it if a client goes 
on a date with somebody who's really 
they're so excited and then that person 
chooses not to call the next day 
I look at it as it's not about you it's 
where that person's at 
it could be 20 different reasons why 
they didn't call and none of them have 
to do with you they could not be ready 
they could be dating somebody a little 
further wrong they could be really busy 
with work they don't want to be in a 
relationship 
they'd be attracted to dysfunction and 
you are a lovely nice normal person so 
you don't activate them because they 
want something crazy it could be we 
could come up and spend our entire 
podcast coming up with 100 different 
reasons and why it's not about you 
so it is one of those that when some if 
somebody doesn't call after the date 
it's okay you know what you know what 
they're doing they are creating space in 
your life to say I like to say the 
phrase bless and release 
bless these less and release and 
remember one of one of the things 
that I will tell you is we want you to 
know that the person that you should 
that you we want you to end up with 
should like you a little bit more than 
you like them okay and now sit with that 
for a second likes me a little bit more 
why because they prize you they adore 
you they want to take care of you right 
it's like 49 51. you you're 49 they're 
51 and now if someone doesn't want to go 
out on a second date with you do they 
hit your measure well if you didn't like 
me a little bit more 
you they're not the right person for you 
so that's it and you just move along 
because if this person is showing their 
true colors right away who cares Let It 
Go bless release move on and when you 
say no to messaging somebody back when 
you say no to a date is your goal to 
make that person feel rejected 
no never never that is never your goal 
you're just and for whatever reason it 
might be a no for you and it might be a 
no for a hundred different reasons but 
it's your goal to make that person feel 
like you're not good enough yeah no 
nobody wants to do that we're kind 
lovely people absolutely and and this 
for this goes with regards to anything 
if someone comes to me looking for a job 
and I say I'm not sure that there's a 
great fit does that mean I want them to 
feel rejected or they're not good enough 
no it might mean we don't have any 
openings right now it might mean you 
know what we need someone who's 
experienced it with this educational 
background it doesn't mean you're not 
good enough right it just means what it 
means so don't create a story around 
that at the end of the day and it's the 
same thing with dating but dating feels 
so much more personal than it does with 
regards to the example that I just gave 
right now about hiring and jobs right 
because we can create a lot of stories 
around well okay I didn't have the right 
degree or I didn't have five years of 
experience or I didn't have this here 
because we can turn it into something 
quantitative but in dating we turn it 
into something qualitative it's about me 
I'm not pretty enough I'm not good 
enough I'm not smart enough for guys I'm 
not tall enough I'm not rich enough 
whatever that is I want you to say if 
this person doesn't like me a little bit 
more and they're not chomping at the bit 
to go out with me 
I'm throwing them back to the pot so 
good so don't fear rejection everybody's 
afraid of it it's rooted in our most you 
know in the deepest parts of our 
reptilian limbic brains nobody wants to 
be rejected not the kindergartner not 
the middle schooler not the high 
schooler not the Sorority Girl and 
certainly not the adult right we all 
fear rejection and like Lindsay's saying 
I'll put it into mathematical terms look 
at this as a math equation if there's a 
common denominator on both sides it 
cancels itself out 
yes you're exactly right and you know I 
tell you know just the basic we call it 
the rejection well the rejection proof 
rule which is more along the lines if 
you show up on a date and you are 
genuinely bringing your best self to the 
date and you are asking questions and 
you're being kind and you're being nice 
and you're being the person that you are 
then that is it if you are not nobody 
can reject you for being who you are if 
you behave badly if you're mean if 
you're horrible if you say mean things 
to them and you put that person down 
well then hey maybe that is a rejection 
but nobody's doing that everyone is 
going forward and being the best person 
they can on the date and realize that 
when somebody it doesn't work out they 
are creating space in your life for the 
right person to come along 
and so you can often say thank you 
you're showing me early on you're not 
for me but I wish you well who's next 
exactly exactly so don't 
don't get bogged down and being afraid 
of being rejected because it's not going 
to serve you well and that brings me 
perfectly tease me up 
for 
the next secret that we've found that 
has made our clients really successful 
and 
it's what you think 
and what you feel about dating that 
ultimately will decide your outcome yes 
oh my gosh mindset is everything 
everything 
when you choose to embrace dating and 
you choose to like the process and you 
choose to understand that you're we know 
that the person for you is out there 
that you're gonna keep dating until you 
find him and her hair either way but the 
ones who decide to get behind dating and 
to recognize that have fun with it and 
look for what's good those are the 
clients that have the most success 
the two engagements we just had I could 
tell you they were having fun dating now 
normally people don't hear the words 
dating and fun and put the two together 
but unless you're working with us they 
absolutely then you're having a little 
more fun but they looked at it as I'm 
gonna keep doing this because I have a 
plan I know I know what I'm looking for 
I know what the right kind of partner 
feels like for me and I'm Gonna Keep 
dating until that person comes into my 
life no matter how long it takes and I'm 
gonna choose to focus on what's good so 
they both went on lots of dates of 
people that were not good fits but they 
didn't let those bad dates if they ever 
determine their outcome and have them 
quit or give up they're like okay well 
just that wasn't a great date but next 
who do I meet next 
and they kept going and they chose to 
like the process because they knew that 
the process was there to help them 
it's so true and if you're listening to 
this and you've tried you know if you've 
tried all these things or maybe you're 
working with us already at this point 
sometimes what people will say like when 
well it's happening for everybody else 
around me why isn't it happening for me 
and what I want to tell you is that 
thought in and of itself is going to set 
you back right just pull yourself into 
not woe is me I've been doing this for 
five months or two years or three years 
and why is everybody else having success 
why are these two other people engaged 
and I'm not engaged remember what they 
did really well and what I know you're 
going to do really well is say you know 
what my time will come when my time is 
right and I am going to continue to have 
fun dating and I'm going to continue to 
be positive about dating I am not going 
to fear rejection I am not going to 
ignore red flags and love is out there 
for me it's a when it's not an if so 
what I want you to do is put yourself in 
this state of psychotic optimism I want 
you to take that mindset because 
comparing yourself to others is a recipe 
for misery and depression in any way 
shape or form oh she's got this kind of 
car oh my God she looks like this she's 
the size he's got you know he's got you 
know he just made partner at work 
whatever that is comparison is the thief 
of Joy yes 
and on top of that this you know they 
say that unmet expectations 
is the definition of unhappiness and so 
what that really is coming down to is if 
you have an expectation that you were 
supposed to put yourself online right 
away and find love and then that didn't 
happen after the first or second meeting 
then you're starting to feel more and 
more unhappy and what happens what we 
think influences the way that we feel 
and the kinds of actions that we're 
going to take so if you're in that 
mindset and you're feeling like you know 
what oh my gosh it is not going to 
happen for me and dating this sucks and 
this is terrible and this is such a 
chore and everybody out there is 
horrible 
what happens you get on the site and you 
will start to filter and you will only 
see people that are going to prove that 
that's that you're right our brains like 
to be right we're going to start to look 
for evidence to support that everybody 
on the site then is terrible and awful 
and a waste of your time then that's 
going to bring your energy down further 
so what's that going to do you're going 
to get into that place where you're not 
even going to want to get online anymore 
you're gonna give up you're going to 
stop looking and then that's where you 
get stuck and so what we're going to 
tell you is you have a lot more power 
and agency over this you have a chance 
to sort of before you get on the site 
put if it's a Post-It note on your 
computer whatever it is that lifts you 
up it's love is out there for me it's it 
when it's not enough 
and then when you get onto the site 
you're like I'm what am I going to find 
today what am I going to learn new today 
somebody's going to pop up who's not 
going to be a good fit we are not 
creating a story around that person 
we're just going to delete them move on 
and look at who can we find today look 
at this like hunting be excited there 
are more good people out there than 
there are bad 
there are more good than that 100 and I 
think I've told this story before and 
I'll say it again because repetition is 
the key to making changes it's if you 
get online and all you see are like ugh 
ugh ugh I hate everybody chances are 
you're not in the right mindset right 
when you get on and you've got that 
gloom and doom like okay everybody looks 
like they were just sprung out of prison 
or these all look like Russian mail 
order brides that are catfishes no you 
know what call us we'll help you through 
that tunnel call a friend you need 
somebody to be objective with you 
because when we have those gray lenses 
on if our mindset is like okay this is a 
chore everyone sucks I hate this you 
look at the world with gray lenses and 
you'll look at your match or your hinge 
or your Bumble or your Tinder or your 
coffee meets bagel with those same gray 
lenses so all of this I often say and 
Lindsay's heard me use this analogy that 
successful dating and the secrets to 
dating there isn't just one it's like 
when you put your key in the ignition to 
your car right and the car starts 
there's a boatload of things that happen 
underneath that engine I don't know what 
they are I'm not a car person but I know 
that there's pistons and there's spark 
plugs and there's gas and there's this 
and there's that and there's you know 
um what I forget really there are no 
Mufflers I just learned 
there's combustion there's a whole bunch 
of [ __ ] going on right and right I and 
and I just know that there's a lot of 
magic that happens all at the same time 
that makes my car go into reverse so I 
can get out of my driveway and dating 
guys is so much of the same thing 
there's a lot of magic that has to 
happen inside and outside to get this 
train to get that car to reverse out of 
the driveway and then go straight into 
Love Lane so yes oh I love the analogy 
so we're going to take that car into 
Love Lane but know that so much of 
everything so much of everything in life 
okay and I'm gonna go have an Oprah 
moment now comes from how we think about 
things 
yes if the human brain cannot 
distinguish between something we imagine 
and something that truly happens why do 
Olympic athletes so much of their time 
isn't just spent skiing up and down the 
hill up down up down it's spent 
visualizing what would happen when I get 
into this pickle and things don't go 
well what would I do what am I going to 
feel like when I overtake everybody and 
I'm in front and What's It Gonna feel 
like to cross that Finish Line ass right 
Lindsay you tell this great story of 
power posing before your tennis matches 
and what that did for you tell us about 
that oh my goodness oh oh gosh we used 
to talk about that I love it I used to 
when I was playing in a Tennis League I 
would have a very special routine before 
I'd play my match where I would first I 
would on my way get into the right 
mindset by listening to my favorite song 
on the drive there and then before I 
would get there I would stand really 
tall and I'd put my racket above my head 
and I would power pose my way through 
now here's the interesting thing we 
don't and I don't want to get on that 
trail we don't know necessarily if power 
posing works or not but here's the key 
to it I thought it was magic I believed 
in my head that this worked that if I 
stood and stood tall and felt Victorious 
that I would win my matches and then I'd 
get in the right mindset where I'd feel 
confident I'd feel happy I'd feel secure 
I feel like I did all the little things 
I needed to do to win and then I started 
winning my tennis matches now 
it was not necessarily because I'm an 
amazing tennis player because I am not 
an amazing tennis player at all it was 
that I had the confidence and enthusiasm 
when I was playing that I felt like I 
was a winner and I acted like a winner 
and there's a lot with that with dating 
100 and I do believe for a variety of 
reasons power posing 100 works okay and 
so put your mind in the right place if 
you don't know about power posing Amy 
Cuddy's Ted Talk on power posing is 
amazing it's still one of my favorites 
Lindsay and I went to go see her on 
Lindsay's birthday give a talk about her 
book presence it's amazing I did start 
winning after I did it so when we went 
to that Ted Talk I remember oh 100 and 
before I did my own Ted Talk I'll tell 
you there were some Wonder Woman power 
posing going on behind the scenes 
because it's scary to do things and when 
you put your arms out and you take up 
space that will help to get your mind 
into place and if you are feeling 
anxious about something if you're 
feeling nervous just tell yourself I 
belong here right this is going to go 
great rate and power pose the heck out 
of your body and you're gonna feel like 
you're in a great place so remember what 
you feel determines what you think 
determines what you feel and how you 
feel determines what you act the way 
you're going to act so why the hell not 
think love is out there for me it's a 
one not an if and those of you who have 
been following us for a long time know 
that during 2020 we did Instagram lives 
if not once a week every Thursday 
multiple times a week just to be a 
bright light and to bring people 
together in a community that could talk 
to each other and I remember one day I 
was reiterating psychotic optimism and 
the message love will come to me it's a 
when not an if and I was on a tear and I 
was like all right I want you guys to 
take a red lipstick take your favorite 
Berry red lipstick and write it on your 
bathroom mirror in red lipstick and send 
it to me and I will posted in my story 
and I will tell you so many of you wrote 
it in red lipstick on your mirrors 
because you would look at it every day 
in that powerful red on your mirror like 
a badass and I couldn't believe it and 
people said oh my God it makes me feel 
powerful every time I look in the mirror 
because I see it in blazened in red 
lipstick across my mirror do it do the 
thing that's going to remind you that 
you are a rock star you are a badass and 
you are psychotically optimistic and you 
know that love will come to you it's a 
when it's not an if so absolutely so 
I'm gonna change gears 
that is my favorite topic to talk about 
mindset and psychotic optimism but only 
rivaled potentially by 
yeah 
red flags 
and one of the red flags that Lindsay 
has seen so often when she's coaching 
clients long term is 
old trauma okay and we'll talk a little 
bit about what that means because I'm 
going to ask her Ultra shows up in new 
relationships tell us about this I look 
at it like old trauma could mean new 
drama 
say it again for the people trauma could 
mean new drama 
and new drama for you if 
look if that person has not addressed 
their past and they haven't been 
actively working on it 
and what I mean by that is listen all of 
us everybody has their something part of 
the human experience is for us to go 
through things that are difficult so we 
are we all have that in us but it's 
really looking at what pay attention to 
what somebody tells you up front in the 
beginning about their past and the more 
stuff there is the more time I want you 
to build into dating them 
the more I want you to give it space to 
make sure that these patterns from their 
past do not show up in the new 
relationship and I'll give you an 
example with that I think there's a lot 
of 
I think that in the up front before 
somebody really knows you before they're 
invested in you I find that people tend 
to be much more of an open book and they 
share a lot about where they're coming 
from very like openly so if somebody 
tells you right away for example if they 
have had 
kind of the worst thing happened where 
they've been abandoned by a parent when 
they're young 
or if somebody was never around or if 
there was a lot of abuse or a lot of 
alcohol in their house growing up and 
things like that you will want to really 
make sure that you see that that person 
hasn't been so deeply affected that they 
haven't internalized that behavior where 
they now behave in the same way of the 
traumatic patterns they've seen at home 
or if how their attachment Styles have 
been affected by it do they are they if 
they've been left by a parent do they 
also become avoidant I know this is deep 
deeper stuff but you really want to look 
at what somebody tells you and then dig 
in you don't need to dig in on the first 
date or the second date 
this is the kind of stuff that you 
really want to give time to make sure 
that you that you ask those questions 
over time have you you know did they see 
a therapist have they been working on it 
have they talked to people about it are 
they aware of what it is 
there's a lot and let me tell you 
something and all the new data that's 
come out post coven 
shows that one of the sexiest things 
that we can say that we do is be in 
therapy 
okay that mental health is so important 
to the majority of singles that are 
dating right think about it if you're 
going on a date and somebody's like this 
is what I've been through but I'm in 
therapy and I'm working on it how 
attractive is that it means I know that 
I can't choose my family's of origin I 
knew that I can't choose the stuff that 
happens to me good or bad sometimes but 
I'll tell you that I'm doing my work to 
make peace with it I'm doing my work to 
put it in the right place in my brain 
that doesn't make me reenact those 
traumas again and again and again so 
it's okay and if you're listening to 
this going well [ __ ] I've had a lot of 
trauma am I a red flag not necessarily 
in fact I'm giving you a big hug you're 
not a red flag and especially if you're 
listening to this podcast I know that 
you're invested in growing I know that 
you're not not looking for you know 
somebody that's going to tell you go out 
and put some lipstick on and have a 
great date right this is not Lipstick On 
a Pig this is very much like let's work 
on our stuff let's get better we're 
investing in our growth and so many of 
our clients that you know they're in 
coaching and they're concurrently in 
therapy and they're like do I need to do 
both I'm like yes it takes the damn 
Village to find love people okay it 
really does and and and know that and 
know that just because somebody has had 
trauma it doesn't necessarily red flag 
them it means what are they doing to put 
to make peace with it what are they 
doing to be a healthy partner that can 
have a healthy attachment to you where 
they don't have a run reflex yes or 
things get hard that they're like oh my 
God relationships as soon as there's 
conflict they just want to bolt that's 
not a good sign and somebody who has 
been in therapy understands that 
conflict is inevitable with two people 
if you have a dating relationship you 
have a marriage you have a colleague 
relationship you have a French friend 
any a best friend a child if you don't 
have Conflict at a certain point 
somebody's giving in all the time and if 
you look at that conflict as I want to 
use this not to win anytime you look at 
conflict as a zero-sum game I want to 
win so you lose you will destroy the 
relationship when you look at this as 
let me take this conflict to resolve it 
to get us both to a better place you 
will navigate the conflict gently but if 
it's a win-lose dynamic I will tell you 
what every time somebody walks into a 
conversation or a date or a relationship 
saying I want to be right you might 
intellectually be right but what you've 
done is put a paper cut on that person 
yes yeah right and you don't want death 
by a thousand paper cuts because that 
ain't a good way to die or to kill 
somebody right um when you're in a 
healthy relationship with somebody and 
you you've reached that point where look 
we talk about how you want people to 
earn your story 
so if you've had a lot of things in your 
past you do not need to lay it out on 
the table on a on the first few dates 
with somebody that's still a stranger 
this person needs to earn that and give 
give that time and really make sure that 
they are a safe place for you to share 
what happened but when you build a 
relationship and you're in a healthy 
relationship part of this is you start 
to learn what are the things that could 
be potential triggers for your partner 
what are Old Wounds that have hurt them 
from their past and you learn how to 
avoid those as gently as you can so that 
their old instincts don't get triggered 
and you talk about that and you 
negotiate new work through that as a 
couple so you know gosh my person is 
going to be really really sensitive if I 
don't check in with them if they don't 
get that good night 
phone call from me at the end of the day 
because to them if they don't get it 
they might feel abandoned and so you 
know it is two seconds of my time to 
give them that little good night 
check-in and I want them to feel secure 
and I want them to feel safe and you 
make those choices to do those things to 
help your partner along 
no that's so true that's so true and I 
can just say on a personal note having 
one that just left for college 10 days 
ago I wish she called me every single 
day but I know in my mind that if she 
called me every single day it would be 
because she wasn't happy at school so I 
am letting that relationship 
go to where it should be where and it's 
really funny that as I was thinking this 
morning man I wish I would hear from her 
while we were recording this podcast I 
saw my cell phone ring from her so guys 
you know what 
relationships are always 
something that's being navigated right 
and and so understand right I have 
Trauma from dropping a kid off last week 
and I'm sure many of you listening to 
this understand that trauma and it is 
traumatic when it's your first right but 
right maybe I need to talk to my 
therapist about the trauma of this and 
grow from it but I'm trying to be a good 
mom and let her spread her wings because 
I know we raise children to be 
independent right and when they're 
independent it can be like oh don't they 
need me but that's my own stuff so you 
need to get in touch with your own 
traumas like me and you and all of us 
and and deal with those and also be 
gentle but listen for people that have 
had trauma it doesn't mean you 
necessarily throw them back to the curb 
in the dating world but what are they 
doing to deal with the trauma and if 
they are not open to Growing to therapy 
to coaching that's where we will help 
you navigate this and that person might 
not be the best bet for you it's like 
you can't teach an old dog new tricks I 
don't believe that you can teach any dog 
a trick if the dog wants to learn 
absolutely absolutely 
so 
and I think with that too I think we 
talk about when you are in a new 
relationship but just about we talk a 
lot about getting Clarity too and 
learning and understanding where 
somebody's coming at and not making 
assumptions just based on things in our 
past 
about what somebody where somebody's at 
or what they want so I think another big 
point we wanted to make today is just 
never assume dear daters 
just ask just ask 
just ask if you want to know something 
ask the question if you don't know where 
this person stands if you don't know if 
they're looking for a relationship that 
leads to marriage if you don't know if 
they're That Into You ask the question 
be courageous and when you ask it from a 
place of authenticity sincerity and you 
want to know 
it's not too much right sometimes people 
will say well I asked I told this person 
you know I'm really I don't want this to 
come off badly but I am looking for a 
relationship that could ultimately lead 
to marriage is that something that 
you're interested in as well and if that 
person says with the right person 
absolutely that's good put yourself at 
ease be true to yourself and if you 
don't know something ask the question of 
the person and when you ask it in the 
right way Lindsay wouldn't you agree it 
won't be too soon 
no it really isn't and I think it helps 
also Define good clear communication 
early on which is one of the Hallmarks 
of a healthy relationship and it's 
asking from we always say assume the 
best intention 
put yourself when we're going and this 
is all all these things get layered 
together I think this is where 
Collective dating advice it's a lot of 
different things it's the car analogy 
that Bella was saying too it's very much 
assuming assume the best intention but 
don't write the story for them if you're 
not sure so it's putting asking for 
clarity if they say you know I just want 
to date really slowly I'm just looking 
for friends first 
like okay uh and that could that could 
be a red flag meaning they may not be 
ready for a relationship that's one way 
or it could just mean this is somebody 
when they're dating they don't want to 
rush into a quick relationship like 
they've done in the past and they're 
taking things more slowly so you can 
always come from things with the place 
of curiosity and just say well yeah I'm 
curious so what does that mean to you 
what does dating at like friends first 
look like for you and come at it from a 
place of I could learn something new but 
I just want to check because my 
interpretation of that and your 
interpretation of that could be very 
very different 
amen absolutely well said and speaking 
of assuming 
this is a big old assumption everybody's 
making in the dating world 
let me tell you 
Let's Talk About Sex let's talk about 
sex 
I can't hear that phrase and not sing 
the song 
so sex changes everything it changes 
everything and 
and 
sleeping together too soon 
when you're not ready 
potentially will lead to not great 
things tell us about that oh I think 
this is another one we talk about sex 
with our clients every single week 
because we Bella and I are old school 
and we tell our clients it's exclusivity 
it is wait to sleep with somebody until 
you're in an exclusive relationship and 
the reason we're doing that is not 
because we're prudes but it's because we 
want to make sure it goes back to that 
first thing of giving things really time 
to see who somebody is and making sure 
that you are not missing red flags in 
the beginning and as soon if you jump 
into bed too soon and you get flooded 
with all those amazing hormones and the 
oxytocin the dopamine and the attachment 
kicks in it's really really hard to see 
the red flags and you get attached and 
then as soon as you're sleeping with 
somebody it's really hard to date other 
people so then your pipeline goes away 
because it feels awkward to them be 
going on a date with somebody if you're 
sleeping with somebody the next night 
and so then you also lose that extra 
guard rail of making sure that you're 
comparing and contrasting behavior and 
then all of a sudden you can fall into 
instant relationship mode and it gets 
really really really tricky so one of 
the biggest things we help our clients 
navigate is how do you Pace your dating 
so that you can give enough time but you 
can also make sure the attraction is 
growing and that when the question 
inevitably does come up about sex or 
when over the third date you get invited 
to his house for dinner which happens on 
the third and fourth date almost 
consistently everybody always wants to 
have somebody over for dinner on the 
third or fourth date 
that you know how to navigate that and 
you know how to keep things going but 
not jump into bed too soon 
that's I couldn't have said it any 
better so just get to know each other 
slowly and surely and you don't need to 
have sex with someone right away just to 
make sure that you're compatible in bed 
what makes you most compatible and bad 
ladies and gentlemen is a strong 
emotional connection a strong level of 
trust and a strong friendship where if 
something does go a little sideways you 
feel comfortable saying hey could we try 
blah blah blah if you don't feel like 
you can talk about sex with this person 
it's way too soon to be having sex with 
them and I think if you don't want to 
ascribe to sex exclusivity or a number 
of dates you know we've got the episode 
on the 15-day rule with Sylvia which 
worked very well for her if you are not 
comfortable talking to this person if it 
wasn't good ask yourself the question 
should I be doing this at all or is it 
too soon do we need to have a depth of a 
relationship because typically what we 
hear from our clients when they date 
slowly when they look for an elevator 
person when they make sure that there's 
no smoke there's no fire when there are 
no red flags they let this proceed 
slowly over three months over four 
months they have the best sex of their 
lives yes 
yes 
yes because a big component of that is 
trust and feeling comfortable and let's 
I think the 
let's face it especially as you start 
dating and you get a little older our 
bodies are changing and people have had 
different experiences or they've been 
married a long time and they're 
terrified and so there's a lot that goes 
into this and what I see from the men 
that I work if they really like somebody 
and it's too soon they get in their 
heads and as soon as they're in their 
heads not everything else always works 
properly so anxiety can build so you 
need to be in a place where you really 
trust and you're more invested so you 
can work through those little hiccups 
that can happen initially in the 
beginning to lead to what ultimately 
happens to be really excellent 
fulfilling wonderful sexual lives 
together but it takes time to get there 
and everyone is such a hurry to test 
that out and remember that myth we 
talked about in the beginning um with 
the last episode is that often people 
think that idea that you have to have 
instant 
chemistry is going to translate into an 
amazing sex life 
and it doesn't 
and that is simply not the case not at 
all not true and 
and I think with that I love this end 
cap of surrounding yourself with people 
that are good for you tell us about that 
oh the people around you shape Who You 
Are you are the combination of The Five 
People You spend the most time with 
and when it comes to finding love you 
want to make sure that you are 
surrounded by people who are incredibly 
purging and supportive of this journey 
they are positive they build you up that 
they tell you what's good about you 
and that they are not going to sit and 
tell you about all the terrible daters 
out there and how or horrible dating is 
and how everybody's crazy and have 
everyone get together and share all 
their bad stories because when you do 
that you've all been in that situation 
where you've had that brunch on a Sunday 
morning and everybody complains the 
whole energy collectively just goes down 
100 percent 
so you want to have people around you 
that are supportive that are encouraging 
that want the best for you and will 
Elevate you and support you through this 
journey and if this sounds like 
something you need and you don't have in 
your life 
reach out to us we're here for you we've 
got our magic wands and our crowns and 
we want you to be our next engagement 
and we know you can be or just to find 
the lid to your pot a companion to go to 
the symphony with to play a game of 
pickleball with whatever it is so 
Lindsay thank you for imparting your 
deep wisdom with us grateful and we will 
certainly have you back all the time so 
I'm ready Applause for you and smart 
daters until next week we bid you 
farewell and give you a big giant 
psychotically optimistic hug until then 
have a great week 
