[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
hi everybody 
I am so excited about today's episode 
excited because who doesn't want to talk 
about getting back into the dating world 
after or even during a divorce okay and 
it's one of the biggest questions we 
have the a vast majority of our clients 
have been through divorce are going 
through divorce maybe maybe you're still 
married and you're thinking about you're 
dreaming about divorce and you're 
already dreaming about the new lid do 
your pot well I can tell you that 
today's guest is not only an incredible 
divorce attorney but she's also an 
incredible friend of mine and I feel 
incredibly blessed to have her here so I 
want to Welcome to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast 
Susan Guthrie Esquire 
hi Bella hi Bella's listeners thank you 
so much for being here today and for 
those of you who have followed Smart 
dating Academy and maybe you've seen my 
Instagram live show but you've seen 
Susan on there Susan Guthrie is a has 
been a leading family law attorney and a 
mediator she's on the executive Council 
of the American Bar Association which is 
huge Susan has done billion dollar 
divorces let's just go there we're going 
to roll our sleeves up you guys we're 
taking it all off for this episode 
um and not only did she go from being an 
attorney to being an entrepreneur and a 
mediator but she trains attorneys in 
mediation to make things more pleasant 
and maybe you know less painful Susan 
you can tell us about that and she's got 
one of my favorite podcasts as well 
called divorce and Beyond so give Susan 
a big Round of Applause yay for being 
here with us today we're so excited 
Susan and tell us about dating and 
divorce and all of the things we're just 
gonna eat all of this up I love this 
Bella thank you so much for having me on 
and I love talking about this because 
it's it's like the intersection of our 
worlds right yes 
I mean divorce leads to dating 
sometimes dating leads to divorce 
um you get more times than we care to 
think I think but I think it's a really 
interesting topic for people because as 
you and I know people who are going 
through divorce are often thinking about 
dating 
um it's like the end of that 
relationship has led them to a point 
where they're starting to wonder when 
and if they can get back out there yeah 
it fills people with trepidation I know 
when I get people well we get people at 
Smart dating Academy that are going 
through divorces right they're separated 
and there have been occasions where I've 
called Susan saying could this person 
actually be out there in online dating 
right and I'm sometimes surprised at 
what the answers are when they're high 
profile divorces but you know we can 
talk about that in a minute but I think 
divorce if this is you know we're taping 
this right now at the end of December in 
January is the biggest month for dating 
but it's also the biggest month for 
divorces and what I learned recently is 
what does that mean it means the Monday 
after the holidays is the time when the 
most divorce attorneys phones light up 
with couples that are calling saying I 
can't take it anymore I'm done game over 
it's probably I survived one more 
Christmas and every time I looked at 
this person I knew I was d-o-n-e done 
you know it's it's something I've 
noticed I've been a divorce attorney for 
32 years and every year in January you 
just knew that as soon as you came back 
to the office after the holidays you 
just knew the phone was going to start 
ringing off of the hook and in fact this 
year it's actually already started 
anecdotally what I'm hearing from 
colleagues across the country is many 
people unfortunately didn't even make it 
through the holiday season and the 
Outreach has already started so yes but 
they do say that Monday after New Year's 
Day is divorce day we call it D Day 
exactly D-Day D-Day and and when people 
call you or let's say they they kick the 
you know they sort of start the process 
off what is the most surprising question 
that you or divorce attorneys get in 
these initial consultations 
you know it's funny I love that question 
thank you because it's like normally 
people want to know and the ones we 
usually hear you know how do I protect 
my finances what's the parenting plan 
gonna look like all that but the 
question that we get that I think 
surprises people the most and it used to 
surprise me every time someone asked it 
because I was like here they are talking 
to me about getting divorced and that 
almost every consultation a divorce 
attorney is going to hear when can I 
start dating 
can I date when can I get out there is 
it okay if I'm dating I'm already dating 
is that okay so it's really an interest 
interesting juxtaposition right because 
here's somebody who's ending their 
marriage but also in a place where 
mentally or at least in some way they're 
also thinking about can I get back out 
there right and like your podcast is 
called divorce and Beyond right like I'm 
thinking about by my divorce which is 
ultimately going to lead me to my Beyond 
so to me it makes perfect sense that as 
they think about ending this chapter of 
their lives and let's face it nobody 
gets divorced if there hasn't been a lot 
of pain already like you don't get 
driven to divorce because you know you 
got a paper cut yesterday right there's 
been a lot a lot a lot of stuff Brewing 
so that makes it makes a lot of sense to 
me and do you find that men ask you 
about that more than women or what what 
do you see with that I'm curious 
you know that's an interesting thought 
um I would say it's really more 
in almost every divorce you will see as 
you just said one of the people has been 
thinking about divorce for a long time 
in fact 
um my friend Aaron Levine of hello 
divorce mentioned on a podcast episode 
recently that statistics say before 
someone asks their spouse or tells their 
spouse they want a divorce they've often 
been thinking about it for up to four 
years four years where this has been top 
of mind so that person whether it be 
male or female the husband or the wife 
that is the person who usually is more 
than ready to get back out there 
often if the concept of divorce is newer 
to one of the parties that person uh is 
definitely you know that's the person we 
we the other statement we hear in a 
divorce attorney's office all the time 
is I'm never getting married again right 
game over yeah I'm done that's it never 
again am I doing this so we have both of 
those when can I date and the other 
person's usually I'm never getting 
married again that's I can totally 
understand both sides to that and now 
now if that's so interesting that that's 
you know one of the most common 
questions you get is when can I date so 
tell us the answer to that question when 
can they date Susan Guthrie yeah well 
and you know this is tricky because and 
I I know you get this when you talk to 
your clients there's an aspect to this 
answer that they don't want to hear 
because if they're asking that question 
really what people want to hear is I'll 
go ahead and do whatever you want and so 
I always explain there are really two 
answers to this question there's a legal 
answer and then there's the real 
practical answer and the real the legal 
answers you know really the easy one 
because 
for the most part from a legal 
perspective 
it just doesn't matter if you're dating 
okay right okay I mean 
bottom line if you start dating after 
your relationship has already ended or 
your divorce has hit that your marriage 
has hit the point of divorce you're 
dating you're being out there and 
meeting new people is a byproduct of 
that not the cause of the marriage 
breakdown right and that's what courts 
are interested in what caused the 
breakdown of the marriage and people 
like to think it's well my my spouse has 
a new boyfriend or girlfriend but the 
reality is happily married people don't 
date right or they don't or because you 
tell me each other that's right they 
date hopefully it's the yeah the the 
marital dating so from that legal 
perspective that's the answer the 
clients want to hear right yeah like 
have at it it doesn't matter from a 
legal perspective there is one little 
twist to it that if you go out and start 
spending exorbitant money on your as we 
like to say in the legal field Paramore 
yes 
then that money you know might get 
carved back in because you're basically 
spending 50 cents of your of every 
dollar that belongs to your spouse so 
the easy answer legally is probably 
doesn't matter but then there's the 
Practical answer and that's the one 
people don't want to hear 
oh let's go there okay I'm gonna dive in 
and tell you that is a hugely bad idea 
to date during your divorce for a lot of 
reasons I'm not saying you can't do it I 
am saying that there are a number of 
complications that will arise 
immediately when you start to introduce 
dating or a new person or a Paramore 
into your life 
oh I can imagine how that would just not 
make things any easier especially if 
you're the one that was dealt the blow 
right that you you know if it was me 
let's say and my husband if I found out 
he'd been thinking about it for four 
years and suddenly you know I get a 
little FedEx packet in the mail or 
whatever it is and serve with papers and 
if he was like Hey how do you feel about 
me starting to date I'd have a few 
probably Choice words at that point not 
even you know it's right right now I 
feel like I had been mushroom clouded 
and I wouldn't even be able to process 
that and that would just tell me it 
would make me think have you already 
been dating somebody or have you been 
cheating on me like it would so I can 
100 understand why that would be an 
emotional cataclysm no it's an emotional 
bomb I mean it is truly at a time when 
emotions are already high right that it 
will it will just explode the situation 
and ramp it up to the umpteenth level 
and you're a 100 correct that the person 
who has been or has felt blindsided or 
surprised by this whole concept of 
divorce uh that person will start to 
look at it as exactly that proof that 
you were cheating or that trust should 
not be extended which only makes the 
divorce process harder but I've also 
seen the phenomena the other way around 
where somebody has decided has been 
thinking for those four years about 
divorce tells their spouse it's time to 
get divorced and then that spouse goes 
out and finds a new person or starts 
dating and I call it the I don't want 
him but you can't have them syndrome it 
can also set off World War III there's 
something inherently 
territorial in human beings and this 
probably goes back to some things you 
and I have talked about about our hunter 
gatherer 
um you know backgrounds of the 
Neanderthals but the minute a new third 
party gets introduced into your 
complicated two-person divorce 
everything becomes much more complicated 
the emotions become much more 
complicated 
the issues of what happened before 
What's Happening Now money that's 
getting spent your kids it's uh it truly 
is a ticking time bomb 
yeah I mean there's so much around what 
you're saying that it was I'm sure 
resonates with so many people and 
resonates with us even through the 
dating process because if you think 
about 
dating right after you announce a 
divorce the question one of the things I 
always tell people when they ask me am I 
ready to date it's have you done your 
work have you looked inside and taken a 
breath like give it five minutes like 
what just happened over here why did I 
think you were the perfect lid to my pot 
and now I want to put that lid in the 
incinerator or send it to the garbage 
dump like wait a second how do I make 
sure I don't do that again because Susan 
and I talk about these statistics that 
we share with the people that we work 
with for those of you who don't know 
this fifty percent of first marriages 
end in divorce but what happens when we 
get up we dust off and we try it again 
67 
of those marriages end in divorce that 
is two out of three imagine two out of 
three couples two go down okay and now 
for those brave souls that give it a 
third shot like all right they're 
incorrigible you can't keep them down 
three out of four of those 74 of third 
marriages end in divorce so when you 
don't stop to do actually say what was 
my part in this because even if the bomb 
was handed to you right someone else 
detonated it what how did you how did 
you get blindsided how did you not know 
this was coming how did you think things 
were okay or how did you stay in 
something for so long that wasn't okay 
did you ignore red flags even in the 
dating process it's it's astounding to 
me when I ask my clients to come in post 
divorce I when you were with your ex 
when did you first see these red flags 
they're like oh right away 
ten years ago ten years ago and yet I 
stayed in it and I thought it would get 
better that you know maybe we had kids 
or we moved here and you're what I can 
tell you guys is your issues that you 
have with someone when you're dating 
them they kind of stay your issues when 
you're married 
would you agree with that Susan oh they 
actually I think and I can only speak 
anecdotally from the people that I've 
represented a divorce and having been 
married myself is I think they get a 
little bit worse those little those 
little quirks that people have 
absolutely 
right and so if you're seeing these 
kinds of things and let's say maybe 
you're the single person who's listening 
and you're out there dating and you've 
been recently divorced or you kind of 
thought okay I know how to do this right 
really think twice about this think 
three times I would say measure twice 
and cut once and really make sure that 
you have done a deep dive with some help 
therapy massive right why did I pick 
that person why did I stay with that X 
right you got to do a little you've got 
to do a look in the rear view mirror 
right even when you're driving to still 
make sure that you're going in the right 
direction forward you've got to look at 
what led me to this person what told me 
this was a good idea for me and 
understand who was I then versus who am 
I now and who do I want to be with this 
time around to make sure that you know 
the green flags for a good partner 
versus sticking with the same red flags 
that you might just be comfortable with 
yeah I mean that's so it's it's such a 
great point that I mean think about this 
right you're sitting in a divorce 
attorney's office talking about ending a 
long-term committed relationship and in 
your mind you're already talking about 
going out and dating the divorce process 
is difficult I don't care whether you're 
having the most amicable divorce in the 
world or War of the Roses it is a 
difficult process and then you're 
talking about all the things that Bella 
works with her clients to do to work on 
you know what's happened in the past to 
work on finding the right person as they 
go forward to get out there and be 
psychotically optimistic about finding 
someone new how do you even contemplate 
putting the energy that that process 
deserves into it when you are going 
through a divorce process when you are 
working through all of the life-changing 
issues that must be faced and dealt with 
and discussed and negotiated as you go 
through that process and you're trying 
to get to know somebody else to 
determine whether or not they're the new 
lid to your pot it's mind-boggling if 
you really want to take that high level 
10 000 you know yeah foot view of this 
and yet people want to do it all the 
time 
and I think the real driver here to your 
point they want to do it right away 
because we're trying to fill a void 
right divorce when I talk to my clients 
it's probably for ubiquitously the the 
hardest thing that they've ever gone 
through right and and to think about 
just and that leaves a big hole and it 
leaves a void right even if it wasn't a 
happy marriage you're still half right 
and maybe if you're co-parenting you 
have kids there's a whole new way that 
this partnership is going to show up for 
you right and how do you even co-parent 
and integrate this this old person your 
ex into a life with a new person right 
there's so much around this but just 
brass tacks while we're talking about 
dating with children one of the things I 
tell people is especially when you're so 
excited and you want to fill that void 
and people tend to fast forward and want 
to get into something super fast and 
bypass the whole dating process and the 
screening process and one thing that 
happens is children can become 
collateral damage in that when you're 
rushing to fill that void rushing to 
bring someone home on the fourth date 
right kids especially young kids can get 
attached to to your new boo so quickly 
and if it turns out the boo becomes a 
ghost at a certain point kids are like 
wait we lost mom or dad and now we've 
lost this person right so you want to be 
super careful my general rule of thumb 
with dating after divorce is weight a 
minimum of six months post exclusivity 
before you introduce this person to your 
children and I know a lot of divorce 
agreements now have this kind of stuff 
spelled out very concretely that you 
cannot bring a new person around the 
kids until a certain point 
yeah that's a great point and and we do 
see that language and that's actually 
you've you've picked sort of the the 
typical language we see people will 
negotiate a time period that a 
relationship has to have gone on before 
children can be introduced to a new 
significant other my one caution about 
that 
um is that that's very focused on the 
adults and how they feel and what they 
want and the reality is 
maybe six months isn't long enough for 
your kids to be ready for for mom or dad 
to be in a new relationship I mean you 
talked about a very common situation 
where a parent will get into a 
relationship that's very exciting and 
new but kind of like over quickly we see 
that a lot in the divorce world where 
somebody you probably have a fabulous 
term for it the but it's it's like I'm 
not even sure what but they they get 
very excited they think this is their 
new person this is gonna be it and like 
it's oh it Flames out very quickly but 
they introduce their kids yeah and 
that's tough for kids right they got 
used to your flame before they flamed 
out but there's also just those 
situations where kids are already going 
through a lot when Mom and Dad or Mom 
and Mom and Dad and Dad are splitting up 
they're dealing with a lot and all of a 
sudden you are adding another person 
another element into their complicated 
little lives and if you want to be truly 
child centered it's not about how long 
you've been dating that person or how 
you feel about that person it's about 
whether or not your kids are ready for 
that person to be a part of their lives 
and I encourage parents to really turn 
that around and look at it through their 
kids lives there's a movie out there 
called split it's a documentary filmed 
by my friend Ellen Bruno and it's 
interviews with children from their 
perspective about what the divorce 
experience was like and there's a few 
children who talk about what it was like 
to meet a parent's new person uh new 
significant other and that will change 
forever how you consider that process 
and how you might want to introduce new 
people into your children's lives so I 
encourage everyone to go watch that 
movie before you bring someone new into 
your kids lives yeah absolutely Susan 
and I know one of the things that you 
tell people and as we were talking about 
this segment it's in addition to you 
know being really careful when you're 
out there dating because it's going to 
be an emotional issue with your ex and 
not spending exorbitant amounts of money 
because that's going to lead you into 
another you know ball of bowl of hot 
soup but also not flaunting things on 
social media right here's me and my new 
boo and Aruba uh hold on 
do not first of all probably not a great 
idea to go to Aruba with the new boo now 
you're going to get into that whole 
spending money and and here's the thing 
I'll just say to that spending of the 
money the very first thing I always hear 
from a client is well she paid for 
everything the girlfriend paid for 
everything I didn't pay anything just 
because you say it doesn't mean the 
other side's gonna believe it so we're 
still gonna go through the back and 
forth of them wanting to see all of the 
credit card statements and the bank 
statements to prove that you didn't 
spend any money and what did you just do 
you just spend a lot of time and money 
on an issue that you created by going to 
Aruba with your boot so don't go to a 
room with your boo but you're absolutely 
right everybody these days lives their 
lives on social media and whether you're 
posting it or boo is posting it and 
that's really where we see this most 
often I cannot tell you how many times 
as an attorney I was blindsided in court 
by pictures from Facebook that were 
posted by the significant other that 
were not you but you know there's my 
client sitting there on his brand new 
yacht with his you know 20 years younger 
girlfriend and her glass of champagne in 
his lap and we're in court trying to say 
he can't afford to pay alimony anymore 
right I mean don't and it just ramps up 
again it ramps up that emotional content 
it puts your private life out there 
for 
everyone including your ex including 
your family and by the way including 
your children to see 
absolutely and you know Susan's not only 
an expert on family law and is giving us 
great advice but Susan also generously 
shares her own story and Susan went 
through a divorce herself and then met a 
great Boo and a great lid to her pot so 
do you want to share just a couple of 
your inspiring story with us to know 
that this can happen post-divorce oh I I 
love talking about falling in love the 
right way the the second time you know 
they always say the second time's the 
best time and it's it's so true but the 
first thing I always point out is I did 
not meet my husband until three years 
after my divorce and those three years I 
dated I dated after I got divorced a bit 
but really didn't you know didn't just I 
spent a lot of time working on why I had 
gotten into my first marriage and and 
that's all that stuff you were just 
talking about but you know it's really 
one of those things that because I put 
that time in to look at the mistakes I 
made that first time 
um I actually spent a great deal of time 
talking about and thinking about how 
horrible my my first husband was then I 
turned that around and one he's not a 
horrible person and two why did I pick 
them right why what was it and it was 
that work that I did but yeah I met uh 
pretty much the the perfect guy for me 
my Lids to my pods 
um right there he came into the came in 
through the door of my my office one day 
looking for a divorce attorney to review 
his mediated divorce agreement and 
instead of hiring me he took me out to 
dinner so right he married her 
calls second marriages the Triumph of 
Hope over experience so 
oh my gosh and Susan when you when you 
met David David had three special little 
packages that came with the deal yeah 
people say people come with baggage he 
had little suitcases three triplets 
yeah triplets and that's uh you know 
very lucky for me I got to end up being 
the Stepmom to three wonderful uh kids 
who are now grown up adult human beings 
at 24 but they were I think they were 
almost five when I met them now I want 
to point out you know very pointed to 
what we are talking about today I did 
not meet them until they were over six 
um it was over a year after David and I 
had started dating uh before the kids 
knew who I was and knew that I was in 
their dad's life 
um and you know we tried to keep that 
really slow and you know we knew by that 
time that our relationship was was a 
relationship that was going to last and 
was going to now we are 20 some odd 
years or 20 years down the road so I 
guess we were right on that but and 
that's not to say we you know we did 
everything right but I I really 
um encourage people I have seen so many 
times people filling that void because 
in that moment I mean you know I said it 
earlier divorce is hard it's emotionally 
difficult the thrill of finding someone 
new in that emotional like just oh it 
makes me you know think about falling in 
love it's a wonderful feeling right it's 
wonderful right so at a time when we're 
feeling so low isn't that attractive and 
wonderful but it's also a little 
illusory because you're really not 
thinking clearly I mean Bella can tell 
you all you know about the whole 
Neuroscience of when we are you know 
under stress which thank you divorce is 
stressful you know we're our bodies and 
our brains are emitting all these 
hormones that mean literally that you 
cannot think clearly and again you've 
got to make all these decisions about 
your divorce and now you want to add in 
this additional component of oh I don't 
know something as important as finding 
the next person who's going to be in 
your life so it's not a time to rush 
into things 
no and if you look at the look at the 
phrases that we use to Susan's point I'm 
madly in love mad means cuckoo for Cocoa 
Puffs crazy crazily in love these 
hormones like cortisol and adrenaline 
fight or flight when we're under stress 
lead us to make decisions that aren't 
always good for us because we're feeling 
threatened it's like when the 
saber-toothed tiger is going to come for 
the caveman we're just going to want to 
get out of Dodge and quick and we don't 
tend to make the best long-term 
decisions for ourselves so I think that 
if you're out there and thinking about 
dating during a divorce certainly you 
know Susan has just told us like why 
that might not be the right thing for 
you for a whole host of reasons just 
with your partner with your kids and if 
you haven't done the work yet and if 
you're dating post divorce you know 
getting guard rails around you to make 
sure that you don't end up in that 67 
percent divorce rate of second go rounds 
and 74 third rates you know just and 
Susan actually when I was first getting 
to know her told me when I said you know 
we've had zero divorces in 12 years 
she's like you should literally have a 
t-shirt that says that and put that all 
over your site and I didn't realize 
coming from a divorce attorney how 
valuable that is she's like wait what so 
we've had zero divorces so what I want 
to tell you is Be Inspired if you're 
bludgeoned post divorce and you're like 
I don't know if I can do this again the 
number one thing is you just heard from 
Susan she did her work and she found the 
lid to her pot and they've been together 
for how many years 18 years just over 18 
years 18 years like right like they yeah 
they're marriage is almost adults at 
this point so it's 18. and and so and it 
can happen but doing the work and 
investing in yourself and taking the 
time to slow things down to do it right 
the next time is so so important and I 
hope that you feel inspired and hopeful 
because you're talking here to two 
people one who has helped people 
navigate through the divorce helps 
herself navigate through divorce 
personally found the lid to her pot and 
then I help people Define the lids to 
their pot so we're spraying you right 
now with hope and inspiration and 
psychotic optimism in the new year that 
you too can do this post-divorce you 
don't have to feel so alone divorce can 
be a really lonely process sometimes in 
addition to having an X and A 
relationship blow up a lot of our 
friends end up abandoning us as well and 
that is almost more painful to some 
extent for so many of my clients when 
their friends think divorce is 
contagious and then they break up with 
them or they don't know well do I have 
to pick sides I'm just going to pick 
none of you and and disappear so there's 
so much to this so if you need support 
around this there are many places many 
podcasts you can listen to Listen to 
Susan's divorce and Beyond podcast right 
she has amazing experts on there that 
will help navigate you through the legal 
aspects and the Practical aspects of 
before during and after the divorce and 
you know feel free to Ping us as well 
we're more than happy to to walk you 
through this process in a safe fun and 
inspiring way Susan you were the best is 
there any piece of advice that you want 
to leave our listeners with to make them 
better like you're favorite tip your 
favorite piece of advice 
you know my favorite piece of advice is 
the one that I have found in this very 
past year the thing that has literally 
changed how I see every day and it's 
going to sound trite because it's it's 
everybody in the world has said it but I 
put it into practice in the past year so 
for those who are just starting a new 
year this time last year in 2021 I 
decided to do the um the Gratitude 
exercise of at the end of each day just 
finding three things to write down that 
I was grateful for and they did not have 
to be big things they could be that 
would be great but you know finding 
those three things and I swear to you it 
has changed my days changed my life 
because now as I go through my day even 
like sitting here with you Bella I can 
tell you right now being able to spend 
this time with you will be one of my 
little gratitude moments that I was 
gonna to go in my journal tonight your 
whole day turns into recognizing moments 
of gratitude and and you'll think in 
your mind when little things happen or 
you feel the sun on your face or you 
hear the kids laugh out in the other 
room you'll you'll just write down or 
think of oh that's got to go in my 
journal later on today so whether you 
you write it down or you take that 
moment just to really be in your moments 
and find those those little tiny things 
to be grateful for I I cannot tell you 
the difference it's made for me I love 
that so much and 
gratitude cannot live in the same space 
as fear and anger 
I love that and if you think about what 
Susan is saying when you are you're 
rewiring your brain to look for what's 
good during the day and you're holding 
yourself accountable to write those 
things down and the minute you start to 
look for what's good you eviscerate the 
fear that you're feeling you eviscerate 
the anger that you might be feeling 
because now you know gratitude is the 
antidote to fear and anger so there's so 
much to that and if you guys have not 
started doing it if you're not a writer 
and you don't have a journal like Susan 
I saw a great tip the other day every 
day take a scrap of paper fold it up and 
throw it into a jar and it's your 
gratitude jar and at the end of the year 
you're going to have all these folded up 
pieces of paper and on January 1st you 
can open it up like little fortunes and 
a fortune cookie and look back at the 
amazing things that have happened to you 
every single day over the past year 
I love that so we're at the your this 
episode's airing at the beginning of the 
year you guys have a whole fresh year 
ahead of you that's a wonderful way to 
to get ready and we'll see you in 2023 
we can hear what everybody's gratitude 
moments were Susan thank you so much for 
spending this time with us with our 
listeners and for Doling out the gems 
you have and we will certainly be 
hearing more from Susan Guthrie 
throughout 2022. so thank you so much 
for joining us today you know thank you 
for having me and congratulations on the 
podcast thank you thank you and thank 
you listeners for tuning in and as 
always we would love for you to download 
share review just spread the love and 
know that love is coming for you so 
thank you very much 
