[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm bellagande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back to the podcast 
today's 
expert friend is someone I'm so excited 
and honored to present to you she is my 
friend and you know her as an anchor on 
dun dun dun GMA Good Morning America 
Janae Norman thank you for being here 
with us today and just being you I can't 
wait to have this conversation yes I'm 
so excited you know how much I love you 
uh so this is an absolute pleasure oh my 
gosh and so you guys I'll tell you this 
idea of Janae coming on the show hatched 
behind the scenes in The Green Room at 
GMA which is not even green it's like a 
conference room yeah so I had just been 
covered swabbed and said I can go live 
on the show and I open the door and you 
know past my door walks the effervescent 
sparkling Janae Norman and I probably 
leaped on her and tackled her like 
and we got into this conversation about 
I don't God kindness compassion 
meditation parenting love in like 180 
seconds yes we went zero to a hundred it 
was we were just so excited to see each 
other in person and then yeah all of 
these things it was it was it was the 
universe because we were both already 
thinking all these things and it was a 
perfect moment to let it all out 
to let it all out right and that was and 
so I was like oh we just talked about 
this on the podcast and she was like 
yeah on your podcast I'm like oh my God 
like five minutes ago let's do this so 
I'm so excited Janae to just kind of 
tell us about you tell us your story how 
did you like end up on GMA tell us your 
story as a out spoiler alert a girl from 
Illinois yeah a girl from the cornfields 
and that's what I mean I think about the 
net so often I grew up in Dekalb 
Illinois in in our west of Chicago but 
like not not uh suburbs like straight up 
cornfields we're known for barbed wire 
and corn and Cindy Crawford 
um I loved to write and so it was 
writing that threw me to the journalism 
class in high school and that led me to 
Mizzou 
um but then journalism didn't exactly 
work out so I became a Communications 
and psychology double major and I knew 
even in high school I wanted to intern 
in New York City I wanted to end up at 
ABC News and so even when the journalism 
degree didn't work out those were still 
my goals and I was going to do whatever 
I needed to to make that happen I was in 
a communication class one day when there 
was a posting for a production assistant 
job at the local ABC affiliate took it 
down went and applied that day got that 
job I didn't have a car and this job was 
like away from campus I think I had to 
take like two buses and walk it was it 
was one of those things where it is 
where there's a will there's a way and 
so I then would sometimes borrow a 
friend's car to go to work at four in 
the morning for the morning show and 
then go on to co to my college classes 
the next semester I was doing that but 
then I also started interning at the 
station 
two days a week in the afternoon so I'd 
be there working go to class and then 
come back an intern and then just sort 
of the way the universe does 
there would be breaking news and no one 
else there so they would send me out to 
cover it and then I got the internship 
in New York with ABC and that was the 
dream and so like capacity and 
it was it was just so amazing but 
some people you know it it wouldn't 
necessarily make my bosses feel good 
when I say I didn't like that internship 
but I share that because a not everyone 
is gonna love their internship but that 
doesn't mean you don't get incredible 
lessons from it and the incredible 
takeaway from that internship was 
as much as I wanted to be in New York 
City right away as soon as I graduated 
college I knew if I took a job as a 
production assistant or something like 
that a desk assistant I could get here 
but that was not going to help me get to 
my long-term goal which was Good Morning 
America 
so that's what I learned from that 
internship and I made incredible 
connections and decided you know what 
I've one semester left in school I'm 
gonna go back to Mid-Missouri and I'm 
gonna hit the ground running reporting 
there and and do the local news thing so 
I did I reported in in Mid-Missouri 
graduated started reporting full-time 
there from there went to Tulsa Oklahoma 
from there went to Orlando Florida local 
news thing and again being so goal 
oriented there was a time where on my 
work phone on my home screen I had 
Nielsen's top 20 TV markets 
so every time I looked at my work phone 
I was like look the next goal is here 
and then there came a point where it was 
the top 10 markets look this is the next 
goal because I was so laser focused I 
stayed on the morning show and and every 
place that I worked because you were I 
was going to get more live shot reps the 
big breaking news the big National 
stories everything I did was was geared 
towards ending up right here you were 
clear I was I was and when you're clear 
on your goals the universe conspires to 
make it happen and that is absolutely 
what happened Bella oh my gosh okay so 
wait so you did so you have your screen 
saver and you're going from Mid-Missouri 
to Kansas to Florida okay what happened 
to get you to where you are now okay so 
there came a point when I was in Florida 
and I was just like you know what I I 
realize I am no longer growing in my 
role here I feel like I've gotten all I 
need to from this job 
why else does the universe have me here 
now I really was like there's another 
reason and I don't know yet and I 
eventually met my husband 
okay 
hold up 
okay let's okay let's go there what 
happened okay so Florida 
yes it was I was in Florida I'm in 
Orlando 
and Bella the thing is is when I was I 
was you know 25 26 so focused on my 
career I didn't want to meet anyone that 
was going to distract from that I didn't 
want to meet anyone that was going to 
keep me in Florida because that's not 
where my end goal was 
I I particularly was looking for a plus 
one I was looking for a plus one who I 
could bring along to events when I 
needed to someone I could hang out with 
because I was on the morning shift so I 
had this weird schedule it can be very 
lonely when you're a local news reporter 
going from Market to Market 
and before I met him I just taken a 
break from men I was just like I'm I 
just I'm not going to look right now 
so then once I was like okay I'll give 
it a go I got on Tinder and I had a lot 
of apprehension about it but for me 
working going to work at 2 30 in the 
morning 
I wasn't out at bars I how was I gonna 
meet somebody so I thought this is what 
I have to do 
and now I want to tell you if and for 
those of you dear listeners that are 
like oh I can't put myself out there 
this woman is a local reporter anchor 
and says I'm gonna put my photos on 
there and they all know me and I'm going 
on Tinder so hmm let's marinate in that 
continue Janae exactly and you know what 
Bella I'm glad you point that out 
because obviously I wouldn't have done 
that if I was 
if I was into hookup culture or 
something like that that's not what it 
was so I was being 
I was being specific about what I was 
looking for but I knew I wasn't how else 
was I gonna need someone so I'd gone on 
one date before and that didn't work out 
so then I was like okay I'll go on one 
more day one more date and I'm giving 
this Tinder thing one more day exactly 
this is the last chance 
and oh so Bella I'm gonna tell you this 
story I'd love to tell about meeting my 
husband 
so it starts December 26 2015. I'm in a 
Nordstrom Rack in Orlando Florida and I 
hear a song I'm shopping to because I'm 
gonna spend New Year's Eve in Dallas 
with some friends I hear this song at 
the Nordstrom Rack and I Shazam it I 
recognize the voice from a song that I 
loved on Criminal Minds Ray Ray 
LaMontagne was the singer I hear it I 
Shazam the song and the song is called 
you are the best thing and I'm like oh 
this is I reckon it is the same singer 
he has a very distinct voice I'm like oh 
this is a cool song but I look at it I'm 
like the song's like from 2008 or 
something why is it on right now okay 
cool 
fast forward go on about my life my 
husband and I match on my husband if me 
and this random man we matched on 
January 6th dude comes into my inbox 
exactly but he didn't message me and I 
wasn't gonna message him so two weeks 
pass 
it's a Tuesday after the morning show I 
go out to lunch with my other morning 
reporter our photographers 
um we're out at lunch in Orlando Florida 
and the song comes on again and I Shazam 
it just to make sure I'm like I think 
this is the same song I look it is I'm 
like 
oh Adam I just heard this 
that next morning 
it was that night but I didn't see it 
till the next morning 
this man had messaged me on Tinder 
introduces himself I'm like okay I 
remember I was I remembered the exact 
scene that I was at that morning when I 
got the message and I'm replying and we 
started messaging back and forth and you 
know then we moved to we talk on the 
phone and I'm like okay he seems normal 
enough he's just in Orlando helping with 
some family stuff he's actually based 
out of DC okay there's potential there 
we decided to go to breakfast for our 
first date later that week and 
he was dating multiple people at the 
time breakfast was cheaper I love 
breakfast so I was on board bam our 
conversation was so amazing that we then 
decided to go to dinner that same night 
I love it so Bella we get to dinner 
we're sitting at the table we haven't 
ordered anything yet 
the song comes on again stop it I am a 
hundred percent a believer in science 
from the universe and so I tell them I'm 
like this song this is the third time 
I'm hearing it it's not a new song I 
think the universe is sending me a sign 
and he's like well what's the song about 
let's look up the lyrics 
we pull up the lyrics to Ray 
lamontagne's you are the best thing and 
it's all about you are the best thing 
that ever happened to me and it was at 
dinner 
the first day I ever met this man that 
I'm like wait a minute is this my person 
sure enough oh my God I have full body 
chills and I'm sure I don't even know 
this song or maybe I do and maybe I've 
been at the Nordstrom Rack jamming out 
to Ray Lamonte but you can be darn sure 
that I'm going to be listening to that 
song oh my gosh and then and and that 
okay did he when he swiped on you was he 
like hey are you that person or what did 
he know who you were he did not know he 
didn't like he didn't watch the news 
he's like whatever it's not the local 
news so no he didn't 
um and so it was funny months later as 
we were getting more serious once he did 
he he actually posted on on Facebook and 
was like a screenshot of me on the news 
and was like Hey I'm looking for this 
girl help me find her of course we'd 
already known each other by then so it 
was a fun joke 
um but no at the time he didn't and the 
way the universe works I he was gonna go 
back to DC in five months 
I four months later get out of my 
contract 
I moved to DC without a job my agent at 
the time is like hey are you sure this 
guy's the one 
I'm like yeah it was it was absolutely 
one of those things when you know you 
know and I knew 
I took the leap of faith and so then as 
I moved to DC and I started interviewing 
for jobs there I interviewed with ABC 
News and then the rest of my life falls 
into place Bella oh my God so had you 
been with ABC the whole time I wanted to 
ask you that as you were going Market to 
Market no so it was like I'd been with 
an ABC affiliate and then a fox 
affiliate but it was owned by the same 
company that owned the ABC affiliate in 
Orlando and so those Affiliates really 
had nothing to do with the network yep 
so then once I got once I moved to DC 
without a job that's when I was 
interviewing with the network 
started working at the DC Bureau in ABC 
um two years later got the promotion to 
overnights we moved our whole family us 
and our almost one-year-old to New York 
uh and the rest is history 
oh my gosh and 
you like you're there you dreamed this 
yeah as a kid in Dekalb and and here you 
are and what a testament to knowing your 
goals right being fearless and being 
conscious of taking all the steps in 
that direction and never saying could I 
do this should I you just did it and and 
I love that and for those of you who are 
listening to this and thinking about 
your own careers or maybe your own 
search and love when you are conscious 
and you have the goals and you start 
doing the right things on a daily basis 
and staying super focused every day you 
have a choice when a decision a choice 
comes to you you can go left or you can 
go right when you know where you want to 
go you all those small things lead to 
the big things right yes everything you 
did Led you to where you are now yes and 
right that's what was just so incredible 
and he still jokes we still joke it's 
not a joke he is the best thing that 
ever happened to me because that it it 
was following him to DC that that led me 
to ABC at the time that it did 
um right yeah it was it is incredible 
wow and is he in a similar career to you 
absolutely not 
his whole life was completely different 
um and he has gotten used to it because 
personally we're both very private he is 
even more private 
um and so even the idea of like being 
posted on Instagram and stuff like that 
he's very much like let's limit it like 
he's he's good in the shadows 
um which is a good balance for me 
and it is your fifth wedding anniversary 
this week right yeah yeah and that is 
what's 
uh amazing about the whole journey that 
here we are five years into marriage 
um all of the ups and downs and the the 
joy that comes with it 
and not only are we celebrating five 
years of marriage but we are celebrating 
becoming a family of five 
um oh my gosh I'm literally I'm done I'm 
done this is 
amazing amazing and you've got a 
five-year-old boys girls remind me 
five-year-old boy three-year-old girl 
um yeah and do you know what the third 
is no and we won't find out we didn't 
find out with our daughter either we'd 
love a good surprise 
um yeah and at this point we we just 
don't even care either because we got 
one of both we got everything we need uh 
we're just like Bring it on Bring on 
this next challenge 
oh my gosh I love this and and tell like 
did you have serious relationships 
before you met your husband like had 
dating been easy for you or just kind of 
give us a little bit of a background on 
that that's interesting that you ask 
because there was like there were a 
couple 
longer term relationships that I was in 
but in hindsight do I consider them like 
seriously dating no and I say that 
because 
even in those instances even one who I 
lived with at one point I knew deep in 
my soul that that wasn't going to be 
anything more than that I knew that I 
knew that I know that now obviously but 
I I knew that then 
um and so 
it was 
so no it's hard to call it serious and 
and I think that that's an important 
distinction because along the way there 
were there were other people who tried 
to tell me what that relationship was or 
what it could be 
but deep in my heart I knew that it 
wasn't 
and and obviously I was fine at that 
time dating in that way 
um but then once I was once I met my 
husband when we were dating for five 
months it felt different than two years 
before you know and it's that I think 
Oprah calls it like tapping into that 
inner knowing there's just something in 
your soul it's your intuition and 
there's so much going on in life that 
makes us question that it's our mind 
getting in the way of what our body 
knows 
um but there are times when I know that 
I've been able to tap into that and 
those are some of them 
I love that and I and what sounds so 
awesome as you said when you guys were 
at breakfast on your first date the 
conversation was so easy and it was 
amazing and the conversation seems to 
have continued for the last several 
years has did you and it's so 
interesting that you say that you knew 
in your gut that the other people let's 
call them long-term or serious whatever 
it was you knew in your gut that they 
weren't the right people yeah 
and then at a certain point you just 
pulled the plug and said you're not 
right for me I gotta move on it's great 
that you think I'm the lid to your pot 
but this is not right for me yeah and it 
was 
and I I remember even calling my mom at 
one point to tell her uh about breaking 
up with one of them and she was like 
shocked and oh my gosh and I was like no 
no no no it's okay and like was I a 
little bit sad and mourning the end of 
something yeah but I just knew I knew 
that this was the right thing to do and 
I as we're talking about this I remember 
appreciating that I knew when to end 
something that I knew when it was time 
to walk away when it was time to say 
goodbye because that's a skill and 
that's hard because goodbyes are hard 
and they're sad and they can come with a 
lot of uneasy feelings but that doesn't 
mean you don't need them 
there are still so many lessons in that 
and so that was one thing that I 
appreciated that I knew okay this is no 
longer serving me 
so now it's time to move on 
whether that was a relationship a job 
whatever the case may be 
and that's beautiful because I know for 
so many of us and maybe for you 
listening that's a hard thing to do 
right sometimes when we know in our soul 
when we really tap in and we're 
listening we know that there are red 
flags we know maybe this is toxic or we 
just know this isn't the right fit for 
me good human but it's done and to have 
the courage to be able to say I know 
this isn't right and I know there's 
something better and I know I'm going to 
be okay like your mom was nervous oh my 
God yeah my darling you're going to be 
single living by yourself again ah right 
like Mom yes 
right and and you were okay and you were 
okay and you didn't stay in something 
that wasn't serving you I call that it's 
an accounting concept called sunk cost 
you just continue to put more and more 
dollars into something that you know is 
a dog it's not going to go anywhere but 
oh it's better than being alone it's 
better than blah blah blah you were like 
oh no no no if it's not on my journey to 
where I want to go it's Gotta Go that's 
it and that's exactly it it was okay it 
would just be more comfortable in the 
short term maybe but long-term 
absolutely not and it was the long-term 
goals that ultimately I was always very 
clear about and focused on I love that 
and what are your favorite things about 
your husband 
first off he is hilarious and having 
someone 
to roll through life who literally will 
have me doubled over in the kitchen 
crying laughing 
um that just feels really good uh he is 
he's very witty and funny even even in 
the midst of an argument that man can 
get me to completely disarm and laugh 
and I appreciate that so much even when 
I don't want to 
well exactly and what it sounds like to 
me he's funny and what that lends itself 
to is this lightness in your 
relationship even if you're having a 
conflict he can kind of turn it into 
something fun and playful even though 
you're like this is not funny and it is 
not playful but that tells me he's 
someone who generally is probably a 
glass half full person who looks at the 
world with those lenses and doesn't help 
too seriously and 
he is he's just level he is level in a 
way that I am still learning to find 
that balance I'm I'm more tumultuous 
with the highs and lows and he's just 
level and he challenges me 
Bella and all the most frustrating but 
all of the most necessary ways 
to 
force me to become the best version of 
myself and he is right there 
loving me so steadfastly along the way 
in a way that sometimes I'm just like 
are you sure 
are you sure 
but he does 
um and to to be able to grow and evolve 
and know that that person is in your 
corner cheering you on 
um is such a huge relief honestly 
um I love that and for those of you who 
are smart daters you know about our 
concept of elevator people and Janae we 
talk about wants versus needs in the 
dating world and so much and so many it 
will just go with women looking for men 
for a second we'll come in I want him to 
be over six feet tall and have six 
figures in a salary and 
they've been doing this year over year 
decade over decade going God sometimes 
good on paper isn't worth the paper it's 
even written on why can't I get this 
right and so we shift their dating 
philosophy to something we call elevator 
people we have them Define the people in 
their life I'm like tell me about the 
people that make you really really happy 
that elevate you so we call them 
elevator people because they elevate you 
yeah and one of the Hallmarks when 
people go through that exercise with us 
and they list you know three to seven 
people that really are the creme de La 
Creme of the relationships in their 
lives and one of the most common thing 
that I hear about what an elevator 
person is and I've surveyed over 2 000 
singles doing this through our practice 
someone who is in my corner who 
cheerleads me who encourages me to be 
the best version of myself is always 
there for me sounds like you've got 
yourself a tried and true elevator man 
yeah and I mean and Bella to hear you 
say the difference between wants and 
needs I knew I knew that I needed a very 
strong man who had very strong 
boundaries of his own and everything 
because 
I have a way of being able to get what I 
want 
and but I needed so I need someone who 
can be more firm with me and who can 
call me on my nonsense and can just call 
me out and still love me and that is 
absolute that's what I needed and that 
is who my husband is 
um I love that and I'm sure you are that 
person for him as well oh a hundred 
percent 
you or each other's elevator people so 
um you know tell us you've got you know 
for your young age 
you've got so much good life experience 
do you have any other genetisms that you 
want to leave us to make us better oh my 
gosh I tell myself and I have told 
myself since before I remember standing 
in Orlando in my first apartment looking 
out the window towards downtown and I 
had this poster that said fortune favors 
the bold and I still tell myself that 
fortune favors the bold and I use that 
when you come to one of those Forks in 
the road and you're not sure what to do 
and the the safer Choice it feels safe 
for a reason because it's not going to 
push you so much out of your comfort 
zone you're you're not thinking about 
the fear or you are thinking about the 
fear of the the more challenging Road 
and I I take stock NOW of when I am 
making a decision that's based in fear 
and if it's based in fear that's not a 
good place to make a decision from 
and I try to remind myself that fortune 
favors the bold and so make the Bold 
decision do the hard thing do the thing 
that people are going to question you on 
because the wrist may be bigger but the 
rewards are too and that has worked out 
for me so extremely well in dating and 
career in life 
I love that and I find something very 
similar one if I look back at the things 
I'm proudest of in my life or that have 
given me the most joy and those moments 
they're always those moments where you 
could have said no out of fear 
right my first interview live on GMA 
probably was 2016 or 2017 and I get a 
call I'm like no no and then I'm like 
okay hold on yeah 
yes I'll do this and you put the phone 
down you're like I think I'm gonna go 
throw up now and then I'm gonna come 
back and then I'll be fine 
I'll get through that but yes never make 
a decision out of fear because at the 
end of the day if they make a call to 
you you are good enough and always 
remember I tell people expect acceptance 
wherever you are walk into a room expect 
to be accepted you belong in that room I 
like that 
you will always Janae expect acceptance 
right and you have and you've 
demonstrated that but we can all have 
those moments of oh my gosh should I be 
in this room hell to the yes expect 
acceptance and when you walk in and you 
expect that sometimes I do this when I 
walk into rooms of people I'm like oh my 
gosh dude look who's that look you know 
what and I just steal myself in my core 
I always imagine this big heart in my 
core right and I kind of tighten up 
expect acceptance yes and then you just 
comport yourself differently yeah you're 
the better version of yourself because 
you're not coming from a place of fear 
right you're coming from a place of love 
and you can give that love to the people 
in the room so they feel that people 
respond to that exactly yes yes yes yes 
oh my gosh you are so amazing you have 
to come back to this show again do you 
swear yes absolutely 
I love any chance to get to just chat 
with you so absolutely oh my gosh all 
right done it's a date well I am so 
happy for you happiest five year 
anniversary I know you're going to be at 
5 0 someday as well your 50th 
anniversary and a week of adding the 
fifth to your beautiful family 
um we are sending you lots of love and 
you know lots of support through the 
pregnancy eat the cake do all the things 
thank you thank you 
all right smart daters fortune favors 
the Bold like Janae said stop making 
decisions out of fear stop spending time 
with people that aren't good for you 
when you know in your gut this 
relationship is not serving you and this 
night might not even be a romantic 
relationship it could be a friendship it 
could be a job if it is not serving you 
and that inner voice is telling you that 
be the Bold favor yourself make that 
decision today that you are going to be 
proud of and if you do make that 
decision DM us email us on our website 
tell us what you did to be bold be 
courageous because we want to hear from 
you and if you need help with your love 
life you know be bold and you know where 
to come so with that we will see you 
next week 
