[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back you have asked through that 
famous poll that I've been talking about 
your number one favorite episodes are 
actual love stories of people that have 
been through the tunnel of fire of Life 
done the trust fall into Smart dating 
Academy and come out the other side at 
all ages you know I always say it's 
really never too early to learn how to 
date smart and it's certainly never ever 
ever too late how to learn this process 
so today I couldn't be more excited to 
have my guest who is a dear friend and 
client former client who's now engaged 
spoiler alerts so Christy Reynolds 
welcome to the podcast thank you Bella 
it's so great to be here so Christy is 
incredibly humble and you'll hear her 
slight little Southern twank but this 
little Spitfire is a badass 
extraordinarily successful woman who is 
as beautiful inside as she is on the 
outside she's the department head and 
Bruno professor of marketing at the 
University of Alabama do y all hear that 
she's the department head so we are so 
excited to have you here thank you I'm 
so happy to be here it's so good to see 
you and get to talk about all this fun 
all these fun things that have been 
happening my goodness so Christy what 
year was it that we connected was it 20 
it was end 
of the end of 
18 yeah well fall fall of 2018 that's it 
yep and we were connected through a 
common friend of ours yes yes isn't it 
amazing that we had the mutual friends 
of um John and 
Dana um who are two fabulous People 
Extraordinary badasses by the way so our 
friends John list and Dana suskin who 
are amazing and connected Christie and 
me together as Christy was ready to date 
in a different way so chrisy I'm going 
to just set the stage tell us kind of 
about your life any inflection points 
kind of your marriage what happened and 
how you ended up here okay well um I I 
knew John John and I were professors 
together at the University of Central 
Florida a million years ago um 19 in 
1995 six seven those years you know when 
we both left Central Florida and went 
our separate ways but I always kept in 
touch so it I just was a it was a 
miracle it was a coincidence of a 
lifetime that that he came to visit here 
at Alabama and said hey well and his 
wife Dana came and they said you need to 
meet Bella so it that was just one of 
the luckiest moments of my life but um 
so here I am um but yeah so I I was 
married for 20 years um 
I you know you said it gets raw and um 
get raw girl you can tell us everything 
um I had a great husband Dave and he had 
a um if you're familiar with medical 
terms it's called a gly blastoma 
multiform but basically it's a brain 
tumor and so he was sick for three and a 
half years and um he did oh he did so 
well he he did he had a great life 
before that and then even after he got 
sick he he just embraced um life and did 
really really well but it's you know 
incurable disease and we knew it was 
terminal and so um so he died in um 
November of 
2016 you know and so first six months 
you know it I don't remember it the blur 
just an absolute blur yeah it's a blur 
and um even though you know that 
somebody's gonna die 
it's it just does you know doesn't 
prepare you for a you know really 
different life but I you know I really I 
did really well um the first six months 
was like I said little bit of a blur um 
but then you know I jumped back into 
work had tons of friends and family and 
and all of that so you know I was not 
and I was sad but I was not I was not it 
was a different kind of sad when you 
think about somebody sad and they can't 
get out of the bed and they're it was 
not like that I was I was very sad the 
loss of somebody who loved life so much 
um and then I and I but I wasn't lonely 
I W I wasn't I'm pretty good at keeping 
busy and doing even if I'm home by 
myself I'm busy I'm never bored you know 
so I was B I love to cook you know I was 
and lots of folks asked me to go eat 
dinner and so you know got through the 
first six months and then they asked me 
to be department head at work and I was 
not ready for that uh that's a whole 
other story but anyway that so that was 
is amazing well thank you um but it was 
an avalanche of information that I had 
to absorb and extra responsibilities and 
duties and that sort of thing so that 
started that summer and that was about 
six months after he after Dave died and 
so um I dove into that um really busy 
and um all kinds of fires to put out I 
mean you know we kind of we laugh my 
administrator assistant and I would just 
sit there and laugh in the office 
because if we hadn't laughed we would 
have cried because there were just so 
many fires to put out and I was learning 
I didn't know what I was doing and all 
that um so go through the fall and one 
of our um instructors quit teaching his 
classes and just stopped teaching so I 
had to teach his classes and here I was 
new department head and you know all 
this 
stuff and then my mother died oh yes um 
so 11 months after Dave died my mother 
died now my Mother wasn't completely 
well in a lot of sense of that word um 
so it was not expected that she died but 
it wasn't surprising you know here that 
is I have to clean out her apartment I 
have to bury her you know here it all is 
again and all of that um and you know 
dealing with a lot of the things that 
were with the situation with my mother 
and everything so so um so I'm doing all 
that and this guy from high school shows 
up literally like shows up shows up how 
did he show up well he he before my 
mother died you know people all know 
football is pretty big here right I live 
in Alabama it 
is I live a half mile from the stadium 
in the downtown historic district and 
you can walk to the Stadium you can hear 
it when they score a touchdown I we Dave 
and I used to go to all the games and 
all that kind of stuff I have season 
tickets but I usually just give them 
away or whatever now unless we we want 
to go up and and I'll get to something 
that is related to that later but anyway 
um we we like to just sit here and hang 
out at the house or go go walk around 
and then come back and watch it on TV 
you we're old now it's we can't hang 
anymore with all the stuff in the 
stadium but anyway um so he came he we 
we were always friends this this guy we 
were always friends in high school we 
went to a he didn't go to the same 
College as I did he went to a college 
about an hour away we went to a formal 
one time but never really D we went to a 
dance one time in high school but we 
weren't we never were boyfriend 
girlfriend or anything like that I was 
just friends and had tons and tons of 
mutual friends over the many years in 
between you know we graduated high 
school 85 you know and so this is now 
2017 so over the many years in between 
that lots of mutual friends and you know 
what has brought a whole new dimension 
in all of this is Facebook you know so 
you you you feel like you know people 
that you knew when you're 15 because 
then you see them and what they're doing 
on Facebook now right for sure for sure 
so you know I kept you know I kept I saw 
him on Facebook and saw where he was and 
his family and all that well he had he 
gotten divorced years before I think 
when his kids were probably I know 12 or 
somewhere around those ages um anyway so 
he'd been divorced for several years but 
um so he come he just says hey um I just 
wanted to check on you you know how you 
doing since Dave passed away and D hey 
you know sometimes I get to tuscala I'd 
love to come to a football game that is 
D all that kind of stuff and so um he 
came up for a football game and it was 
just my niece came my sister-in-law came 
we tailgated we friend friend friends 
all just like everybody just having a 
good time as 
friends um and um he was very alluring 
he um was 
mysterious um alluring a friend of mine 
used a word and I can't remember what it 
is describing it'll probably pop into my 
head in a minute but alluring is a 
really 
good word mysterious that kind of thing 
you know you know not badl looking and 
tall and all that kind of stuff so I 
didn't really I was really busy didn't 
think much of it and you know so we had 
a football weekend he goes his merry way 
and I go my Merry way and get back into 
work and all that stuff and more 
football season friends coming that sort 
of thing so about two weeks later my 
mother guys oh 
well he High tells it back up to 
tuscalosa to help me you know after my 
mother died my sister-in-law came thank 
God we cleaned out my mother's apartment 
and then he shows up you know and I was 
in a I mean as you can imagine probably 
the most vulnerable state that anybody 
could be in right I can't I've got full 
Goosebumps right now yeah so husband 
husband's been dead 11 months mother 
dies 
um work 
overload and you know this very alluring 
Charming seemingly wonderful helpful 
conscientious cordial 
friendly man from the past that you went 
to high school with that you feel 
this 
overvalued sense of connection because 
you've now known each other for 30 plus 
years so he comes riding in back to 
Tuscaloosa on his White Horse probably a 
white donkey but let's just give let's 
say at the time it seemed like it was a 
white horse so he came in you were 
vulnerable basically just on your knees 
Dave gone mom gone doing it all over 
again now 
he shows up now what happens so um he 
shows up it was 
uh we my sister-in-law and I cleaned it 
was MBE Monday we cleaned my mother's 
apartment maybe maybe tues no maybe well 
early in that week he shows up my 
mother's funeral is Thursday so he's 
there for me for that right and then of 
course of course there's another 
football game that weekend so he stays 
for the football game and you know 
we do all that and hang out and all that 
kind of stuff and I just again it's just 
he's you know so charming and so 
seemingly wonderful and helpful and 
just conscientious and friendly engaging 
and all those things and I'm you know in 
a up and he showed up right he showed up 
he show it's funny I'm I have cats and 
um cats a lot of times show up it's just 
funny this happens to me a lot but it's 
usually FES but anyway um he you know 
just not you know knocked me off my feet 
really but you know at that point it was 
that was really nothing um but then you 
know I just I was in again this 
vulnerable state 
so we um plan to get together again but 
still is friends and all that so I'll 
fast forward so nothing happened that 
weekend he comes plays night and shining 
armor I'm here and you're like how nice 
okay you know then all the texting 
starts you know oh I can't quit thinking 
about you and I know you're busy but 
you're on my mind and all these sweet 
things and you're so wonderful and 
you're so beautiful and you're you know 
I was redoing some things in my house 
and oh I'm so smart because I'm I can 
organize people to come redo things in 
my house which I'm like I mean yeah 
that's really not I mean now looking 
back all you gotta do is write a check 
right you know but anyway you know 
everything he everything that I did was 
just like so wonderful my cooking was 
wonderful it was wonderful that I cooked 
it was wonderful that I did 
this I I mean I can just go on and on 
and on on and on and on super 
complimentary which was very alluring 
and 
seductive you're in a place of hurt and 
someone sees you and is telling you all 
these amazing things about you and not 
that you lack in any self-confidence but 
like you said you were incredibly 
vulnerable and sad and at that moment 
your cup is empty and somebody comes and 
they start feeding into your cup a 
spicet of verbal affirmations 
attention yes and so you got to think 
about too you know for the year prior I 
was a widow and you know all I did was 
work um and then for three and a half 
years before that I took care of a 
cancer 
patient and a mother who had a lot of 
problems you know I remember I remember 
when when Dave was 
diagnosed and my mom came over and my 
Dave said to my mother Sherry 
Christie has to take care of me now 
you're going to have to straighten up 
and she said I will Dave I promise I 
will but you know she didn't she she 
didn't um you know so I have given and 
given and given and given for so long 
and to and not that Dave was not 
wonderful and tell me how wonderful it 
was was like you know he he did but it 
still when you're taking care when 
you're a caregiver of somebody with a 
terminal illness and then you have a a a 
mother who 
H you know has um addiction problems 
it's it you don't have much to give you 
have nothing and you have a career yeah 
right yes so fulltime more than 
full-time job but more than full-time 
job yeah so you know he just oh how 
wonderful you were and all that you know 
I fell for it hook line and sinker um 
you know 
so the it just the ball started rolling 
and um he came back you know the 
wonderful text through the two weeks 
that I didn't see him then he comes back 
for another football 
game yeah you know all that and it gets 
into Thanksgiving and then Christmas and 
all the he was actually lived away was 
trying to move back to the to close 
around where I live and and in 
Birmingham which is an hour away or 
somewhere he was trying that's where his 
parents are so he was trying to move 
back that was the story or whatever but 
anyway um so it all goes really well and 
then I just I don't know started having 
these weird I guess I came up for air um 
because I felt like I you know feel like 
I'd fallen off a cliff I kept thinking 
that the whole time how it was 
intoxicating and I I kept thinking to 
myself I just feel like I'm floating I'm 
feel like I'm flying I feel like I'm 
I've falling off a cliff I feel like I'm 
on a roller coaster it was 
intoxicating but then it go it it it's 
little pieces of it going bad it's not 
like it wasn't a Monumental event of it 
going bad it's little crumbs 
of something's not right oh okay let's 
what happened so you're falling off the 
cliff the first couple weeks yeah this 
is and I would say on 
into closer this is It's October 
November and then through the holidays 
and then we're in the holiday you know 
closer to after New 
Year's just and then looking back I 
remember little after about four five 
six weeks a little snot comments that I 
brushed away and didn't didn't pay 
attention to yeah um under the radar I 
mean under the radar so far under the 
radar it's it's I didn't detect them at 
the time right because you're so pumped 
up on oxytocin and you're on the roller 
coaster and you don't it's like those 
comments they hit us but they get stored 
someplace else at that moment when we're 
in that in that chemical Haze so your 
system started to receive them now in 
retrospect maybe six weeks after which 
is very typical for a narcissist right 
they are fast and furious and it takes 
us Sometimes some smelling salts to come 
to and that can be three to four months 
later yes yes yes yeah my 
niece right at the beginning was 
like she could be in the same 
room really yeah and what did she 
feel my brother said that's just cuz 
he's not uncle Dave and she's like nope 
that's not it something's wrong yeah 
she's my nephew says she has a good 
spidey sense we might have to hire her 
as a dating 
coach I don't I just started I just 
things just didn't add up it just things 
just didn't add up um and it it and then 
you know it just all the typical stuff 
that they do it didn't get that bad with 
as far as luckily for me 
according to a lot of things I've read 
about people women in these kind of 
relationships I got lucky it was just a 
snide some emotional stuff and and the 
fact that I know now that this person 
took 
uh um on purpose came and took advantage 
of me wow how can somebody take 
advantage of somebody who's a widow 
whose mother just died I don't 
understand I I don't get it I do not get 
it and under the ruse of oh we've known 
each other for since we were 15 right 
14 oh or maybe even I don't know maybe 
it's 
12 that long oh we know yeah yeah it's 
it it messed me up I was messed up for a 
while really messed up 
um how long did it all last so now six 
weeks in you start to see the red flat 
is like I'm not loving guy and then I've 
got some friends who are really good 
detectives and they I don't know just 
found things online that just made 
things not add up 
and I we somebody like I'd find somebody 
that knew him and that somebody I know 
would say hey do you know so and so and 
then people would just 
go yeah yeah we know him they that was 
it like that was it like they just were 
keeping their mouths shut as friends 
tried to reach out and do their due 
diligence and kind of investigate him 
they were starting to see people were 
like yeah I know like yeah I know that 
guy why right so nothing like oh my God 
what an amazing guy when we have good 
things to say about somebody if somebody 
says to me oh do you know Professor 
Christie reyolds be like oh my gosh she 
is amazing we come out with that right 
away but it's like if you say yeah why 
keep your shovel to the ground and keep 
digging because the dirt's gonna get 
thick yeah yeah so this was start March 
um and then I I don't know I just 
started I just had a feeling and then it 
everybody else had a feeling and it was 
just things it add up and then I found 
somebody who was friends with his most 
recent girlfriend before me and I got 
confirmation and then there you go so 
that was it 
so 
lying you know lots of 
manipulation maybe infidelity all of the 
things textbook text yes unreal and it 
it until this experience I always 
thought that Nar The Narcissist was a 
mythological 
figure and looking back I probably knew 
some along the way but I never I've 
never encountered anything like this I 
never I it's just it's still 
mindboggling to me I but I have learned 
so much and I've look this is lot you 
know I run so I have a lot of time to 
think um I've I saw signs all along the 
way that make sense now that I know what 
the definition of this personality type 
is it all fits together perfectly 
so wow and 
so so now you and that whole thing 
lasted four months five months maybe 
yeah yeah yeah yeah it that people like 
oh that's not very long no it's enough 
to do collateral damage it it's 
traumatizing it is it's it was I was I 
was in a bad it brought up all the grief 
from my husband and my mother made that 
worse 
just every bad thing that just an 
avalanche of 
awfulness C culminating um 
from having that experience with him and 
just again and you know somebody people 
say just there's just some things you 
can't explain and I think this is one of 
them but I like to be able to explain 
things like why did that person do that 
and I'm just like how could somebody 
even if you don't know them take 
advantage of somebody whose husband died 
and then their mother died I just can't 
understand it but anyway we we never 
will right it's just like trying to 
understand why somebody might harm a 
child we we can't understand that well 
what we do know the number one Hallmark 
of a 
narcissist is that they lack 
empathy right and when you lack 
empathy your husband and your mom died 
floats off their skin they don't care 
what's in it for 
me no what's in it for me 
and they're like 
vultures right and they look at us as 
prey and from their perspective they can 
say all the right things they can pour 
into your cup they will affirm you 
verbally you're cooking the way you look 
how amazing you are and it's all part of 
the deception ultimately it's all it's 
all to make you kind of go oh wow look 
over here right and and one of the 
biggest things that we talk about in 
relationships is when you feel like you 
are falling off a cliff when you feel 
like you're on a roller coaster your 
whole nervous system has been 
activated good relationships feel 
peaceful if you think about how you felt 
with Dave probably none of these 
feelings ever no it was uh just a we 
were really were friends for a long time 
you know like we dated but it was very 
platonic for a long time and just really 
got to know each other and then it it 
wasn't any kind of flying or falling off 
a cliff or Now Dave was real fun loving 
and I you know because he was uh he 
loved he just loved to have fun and he 
loved to do fun things and he loved to 
be outside and have um experiences and 
all that I mean most the time we were on 
a roller coaster but it was just because 
we it was actually we really were on a 
roller coaster he like he loved roller 
coaster you know it was real real not 
the metaphorical roller coaster yeah I 
mean he was just he was so funny and um 
humorous that it I mean I couldn't even 
get mad at him because he he's too funny 
I mean he just so it's that kind of 
situation what I don't know it it wasn't 
euphoric I don't ever remember I mean I 
remember being so happy and and like 
peaceful and tend sometimes W to 
strangle him because he he was a little 
um you know a childlike as as our 
partners can be that are very funloving 
right exactly like Life's a party right 
wooo yeah um but never like that 
Euphoria no that Euphoria yeah no so you 
know I don't know but I just want to 
caution your listeners it's be careful 
it's it's 
this is it I when I read your booklet 
the first when I first met you and y'all 
sent me the materials and all that it 
said the butterflies butterflies are and 
I it you're right you are right that 
that's the that euphoric feeling or that 
uneasiness or whatever that's the sign 
it is it really is that doesn't mean 
that you're you you're not in love with 
somebody or you are crazy about them is 
a there's a difference there really is 
there is a difference oh 100% the 
butterflies are anxiety it's your body 
saying there's danger up ahead run the 
other way Christy Reynolds take your 
Nikes and turn them around the other way 
I don't know if you Nikes but 
um well now we flashback you pick 
yourself up after the N now John comes 
down you 
know he was he a Nobel Lord what was was 
he nominated he's everything that he is 
UN unbelievable just both of them are 
just the power couple of the century 
right they do such incredible things and 
they're such nice people um so he came 
down so it's coincidentally one of his 
students is now one of our faculty 
members here student at Maryland is now 
faculty members so he everybody's like 
John list is coming know I'm the I'm 
like well I've know him the longest so 
you know exactly exactly so again 
football rolls around you know so we he 
comes on a football weekend and um he 
does his talk and we have the lunches 
and all them so we set up a big tailgate 
that hit the econ Department sets a big 
tailgate up on Friday so I go to the 
tailgate and um Dana I get to meet Dana 
and all that and so he's they start 
asking me like about you know they knew 
Dave you know we we did things with them 
in Orlando as as couples back then we 
went to concerts and things like that um 
way back at UCF you know so they knew 
Dave and all that and they were like 
well how are you doing are you dating 
I'm like well I had this really bad 
experience in a nutshell told them well 
you just have to meet Bella so that's 
that was in October and um so Dana made 
the connection and by then you know i' 
been the through the summer and then 
through the beginning of the 
Fall I i' gotten better I started 
recovering from the bad experience and 
um I 
knew um once Dana told me all about 
you and them really encouraging me um I 
knew that connecting with you was what I 
had to do to be able to get back out 
there after what happened and so I was I 
I wasn't ready to do it on my own was 
not couldn't I couldn't there's no way 
couldn't done it WR so I was ready to do 
it and I had you and Lindsay to hold my 
hand and um all that so it that's that's 
what did it and it was that's just I 
don't know just a blessing from God that 
I that weekend with uh John and Dana and 
then you know connecting me with you um 
and so I was coming out of it and then 
then that was just at that point just um 
a lot of hope you know looking forward 
to starting a new approach to and you 
know and the thing is is back you know 
when he showed up I again I I was not 
going to actively look to date right so 
yeah I wasn't back you know back the 
year year before 
um if if I have to find any Silver 
Linings and anything at least it got me 
where I knew that I once I got over the 
hurdle you know of hoping not to meet 
another 
narcissist I knew I could get back out 
there so at least that's one silver 
lining of that I knew I could you know 
because when you're I mean I that dat 
died when I was 49 so by then it was 50 
51 you know dating is different now and 
it's different when you're in your 50s 
it's it it's I can't you you know that 
it's going to be different but it's so 
different that you can't even imagine 
you can't even imagine so 
so anyway that's when um you know I 
flipped to Chicago and we got started on 
all of this so that was you know such a 
great 
opportunity so great and I know we 
really talked a lot about what red flags 
are of narcissists and and right we have 
our booklet with all of the things and 
what healthy relationships should look 
like with trajectories and graphs 
because you know you're I'm a fellow ner 
fellow uh loves graphs loves data and so 
how do we follow that because there is a 
process to follow and even when we've 
known healthy lasting love when you get 
back out there you think everybody's 
good you think everybody is wholesome 
and healthy and especially people from 
the past right and we overvalue and 
overweight that sometimes and we give 
people so much more like oh I just want 
to meet somebody at my high school 
reunion well do you really 
because depends on who the person is so 
I think one of the things that we did 
together was really start to separate 
who are the people in your life that 
make you happiest and then we put 
together this profile of who your high 
GHQ guy is high and good husband 
qualities here's your green flags here's 
your red flags and then we did your 
photo shoot and I'm gonna have a page 
Christy's already got a page on our 
website and it'll be updated but you can 
see how gorgeous she is and so we put 
you online you've got a new profile then 
what happens when you get you I think we 
launched you on Match if I'm not 
mistaken yeah you did you did well 
that's just you know it's a whole 
different experience and I never had 
done that I knew people who had met on 
Match actually I know some people who 
are currently together married and all 
that who met on Match many years ago 
when it was not as ubiquitous as it is 
is now you know the wild west yes oh the 
wild I call dating in your 50s the wild 
west quite the wild west yes yes yeah so 
um yeah and y'all just I don't know the 
the meetings that we had and the 
guidance and all that just help you the 
the main thing is what everybody needs 
to know is you really you need to talk 
to people a lot for 
talking even if it's just on the phone 
for a real really long 
time yeah you need to get to know 
somebody at their core and over time and 
so so Greg came into your inbox in mat 
yes yes so I um I had gone to some 
lunches with some um a few other fellas 
and I will tell you this you know and of 
course there's a lot of people that you 
guys help me you know weed in weed out 
weed in weed out because you know 
they're not they's somebody else for 
them and that's great and I hope they're 
happy but they're not right for me or 
they're you can tell that they're like a 
a 30-year-old who saying they really 
like a 50y old and you're like no that's 
probably not you know not the kind of 
relationship I'm looking for exactly 
that kind of thing but um so you know 
went to lunch with a lot of really every 
person that I either had um I had 
lunches and coffee I don't drink coffee 
but so I'd get whatever tea or Diet Coke 
or whatever but they were all so nice 
wow like they were there was not anybody 
who I had lunch with or coffee with who 
I thought oh my gosh what an awful 
monster like that person is not lovely 
like and they were all really sweet guys 
really really sweet guys and there was a 
couple of them that oh maybe other no 
just one one other that I had more than 
one lunch coffee thing with and very 
very nice very very nice guy but I don't 
know I just didn't you know I just knew 
that it wasn't for me but anyway so Greg 
had been in Germany um he he works for 
Mercedes and he had been in Germany for 
a few 
months and so had just 
returned and so the T I mean the timing 
really was Unreal as far as when me 
being on there and him just getting home 
getting home and it said why he in 
Germany where he had you know lots of 
friends over there and colleagues and 
all that and was busy and and working 
and 
enjoying seeing the country and all that 
um he just had a lot of time to think 
and he thought you know he'd been 
divorced remember for year and a half or 
so and said I'm going to really try to 
be serious about finding a companion and 
that sort of thing so 
um you know I had been like it like I 
said to some lunches and some coffees 
that were with really nice men that I 
knew that weren't for me and you know I 
saw his nice photograph one of his 
colleagues had taken of him in his nice 
suit and I was like oh he it's like you 
know very professional you know so I 
this is at the point where you guys told 
me it was okay for me to message them 
because you know there's the your 
process or what whatever so right when 
when you're going to switch from letting 
them message you to when you're going to 
start to proactively message right so 
you saw him and you messaged him first I 
messaged him first because I just I 
loved his photo photograph he he just 
looks just so professional and like his 
I don't know it was just a very good um 
professional photograph and he just 
looked like a you know somebody who um 
approachable but 
you know very I just I put a lot of 
appreciation in the effort of him you 
know having that night that going to the 
effort to make a you know nice 
professional photograph and um he looked 
like a man with a plan yeah exactly 
right a suit I mean a suit really you 
know it's nice suits are they they're 
big deal gentlemen when you're listening 
step it up in your photos okay yeah yeah 
yeah yeah none in the bathroom no 
bathroom photos girl yeah I know it's 
get a friend and go outside um but 
anyway he so we you know we started 
talking and talked and talked and talked 
and it's funny because you know the guy 
that showed up was somebody from high 
school and my brothers after that were 
like no other guys from high school no 
that's it no more no my no more no more 
guys from high school um Greg's four 
years younger than me so we would never 
have been in high school at the same 
time when he was in high school I was in 
college but it's hilarious because when 
he he asked me where I went to high 
school he knew for some reason he had a 
premonition that I was going to say the 
same high school that he went to and yes 
we went to the same high school oh my 
God I don't even think I remember that 
that's crazy I know I know it said we 
weren't there together so I guess that 
my my brothers gave me a 
pass 
you didn't walk the Halls at the same 
time fine exactly exactly so um and I 
don't know it just it was just really 
comfortable and we talked and talked it 
turns out we have some mutual friends 
that um we are still you know he he's 
been friends with them for a long time I 
was acquaintances with them the husband 
and my husband used to go get a beer 
together and the wife I knew her with 
several different Connections in town 
and so we we friendly with and they're 
you know good friends of ours now we 
hang out and do Gatherings for birthdays 
and that sort of thing so we had mutual 
friends and I don't know it was just 
very it was a 
comforting 
comfortable we had 
fun um but I you know no falling off 
cliffs no hang gliding no bungee jumping 
type you know jumping out of an airplane 
type feelings no no and and what I 
remember about your process is a lot of 
the guidance was around taking it slowly 
yeah yes I just again I cannot 
overemphasize talking talk on the phone 
for four hours if one night you know you 
might be cleaning your kitchen talk just 
get to know people just sit there and I 
mean our first lunch we talked for about 
two hours we sat there and talked 
it's about everything so and then we 
just kept talking we kept talking and 
kept talking and kept talking and I was 
like I really like spending time with 
this guy he's really 
enjoyable he's really 
enjoyable um and he showed up and he was 
consistent and reliable and nice oh yes 
really reliable is really he's on time 
if he's you know in the rare occasion 
that he's not he lets you know I mean 
The Narcissist however is not on time 
makes you 
wait um makes you makes you wait and 
it's late to go to your best friend's 
sister's 
junal oh my gosh yes on 
purpose oh God 
yes you kind of know when they're not a 
heart surgeon you know that if they 
can't leave work on time that is's a 
reason right right right right you're 
not saving lives no not no not a surgeon 
not or EMT or whatever right yeah so 
yeah he I mean yes consistent reliable 
you know what you're going to get you 
know if something bad happens they tell 
you oh this this really this thing at 
work today was really awful and I just I 
just need you know I'm gonna go over 
here for just one second because I had a 
really bad not just some you don't know 
why right no explan exp of the silent 
treatment right that's no good 
no the silent treatment is no good in 
general right when somebody's G to give 
you that in the first place and then 
with no explanation come on yeah yeah 
he's never G me the silent treatment but 
everybody has bad days but you just you 
just tell somebody oh my gosh you're 
just not gonna believe this is what 
happened I've had the worst day and you 
know and if you know that if they're not 
their usual 
self that's why no mystery to solve as 
far as what have you done right person 
this way 
or right yeah so yeah just I don't know 
just consistency 
and 
um just H 
enjoying each other's 
company having fun um 
trust all those things and and it's that 
they're there for you you know you you 
know need somebody to take you to your 
colonoscopy you know right right and and 
he appreciates the place that Dave will 
always have in your life oh yeah he he 
knows all about Dave yes he does he does 
yeah and our mutual friend you know this 
is like after our first date and he told 
our mutual friend that he had gone out 
with me and he said I sat him down I 
said I just want to go and tell you you 
know that her her uh husband who passed 
is you know kind of 
a living he was a living legend when he 
was alive he's a legend now and he was 
probably the most popular person in town 
so yeah he knew but he he's his own 
person and it 
doesn't you know phase him um and he's 
very different from 
Dave very different and I know a lot of 
people 
probably when they first meet him my bet 
people are 
shocked because he's so different from 
Dave he's so different he's not the life 
of the 
party but he but he's fun and he's funny 
but it's a different it's different you 
know nothing neither 
one's better or worse than the other 
it's just different um but my my family 
loves him um my niece thumbs up thumbs 
up from Lucy right at the beginning so 
Lucy definitely has a good future Lucy 
if you're listening send me your 
resume you know what she's majoring in 
psychology of course she is yeah she's 
here in Alabama and she's a sophomore 
and she's doing really well so oh good 
for her wow so she's really pretty uh uh 
precocious with regards to her feelings 
about people and you just it if you're 
wired that's what put me into this in 
the first place you know everybody in my 
network will always tell me you just 
know about people I'm like if there's 
someone I don't get a good vibe from I 
don't get a good vibe from them and I 
can't it's like I I would be Lucy like 
okay and now I'm done yeah now I'm done 
right and and so we just I don't know if 
we read energy differently but you can 
see oh that's a wolf and sheep's 
clothing I'm gonna stay away from that 
she knew it immediately it was it was 
quite astounding really she knew it wow 
wow yeah yeah so yeah so we're you know 
now just you know four years later 
um you know we didn't get engaged until 
a few months ago so it wasn't like we 
were in any hurry to do anything you 
know it's 
just you have a a lot of time hopefully 
and there's just no reason to rush into 
anything you no take it slow and and 
what made did you want to get 
engaged you you know I I think I always 
said I wasn't going to get married again 
yeah I know when I saw it on Facebook 
speaking of let's come full circle I see 
Christie on Facebook with a ring and I 
snapshotted it I'm like uh hello 
congratulations and that's how we just 
reconnected in the last few weeks yeah 
so I know and I keep it's funny after we 
got engaged I kept thinking of people 
who I I need I need to make a list of 
everybody I need to tell and and then it 
you know when 
forgetful that's what Facebook does 
Facebook told us all don't worry about 
it it's all good some people you like to 
just go ahead and tell you know before 
you put it on Facebook but anyway um 
yeah so you 
know and my cousin when I my cousin said 
I thought you weren't going to get 
married again and I said well I said 
it's important to 
um our families and it it's important to 
Greg and I'm not totally it's not like 
I'm somebody's dragging me you know into 
somewhere to get married you know I just 
always I think when I said I'm never get 
married again maybe I meant that I'm 
going to be really careful before I get 
married again but yeah um it's important 
to our families and um you know DA's mom 
will be 93 and March and his parents 80 
and 85 and then my my my family 
and 
um you know I just I I just think it 
it's it's important to people who um are 
important to me you 
know I love that and I love how 
important Dave's mom is and she makes 
the top of your list and she wants to 
see you happy yeah you loved her son 
yeah so much yeah you know sometimes you 
it's not all about you you know cuz my 
cousin said well it's about everybody 
but the bride and I'm like no you know I 
made I'm making this Choice they're not 
no one's making me do anything I don't 
you want to you want 
to well how beautiful how amazing I'm so 
happy for you and you guys are the 
cutest couple and you guys I'm gonna put 
a link to chrisy and Greg's uh page on 
our site and is there any advice you'd 
want to give somebody who's lost someone 
they love or maybe they're 
coming out of the narcissistic train 
wreck like is there any kind of pearls 
that you'd want to give to 
somebody I think take it slow like you 
said just really get to know somebody 
yeah really get to know 
somebody um I mean I don't I don't know 
if I advocate snooping but there was 
some snooping that occurred that was 
very helpful yeah it was well it was 
publicly available information you know 
confirmed your 
gut yeah confirmed your gut and you know 
there's a lot to be said for a gut 
feeling 
oh 100% and you had the guts with him 
you had that gut feeling with the snide 
comments yeah it it just took me a while 
because I 
was so 
emotionally damaged or there was 
emotional turmoil in my life so I did 
not my brain was not going to that place 
yet you have trauma brain it's a thing 
yeah it's a thing yeah yeah yeah 
um it's just those things at the 
beginning it's been hindsight and it's 
been five years those those not comments 
I actually 
remember isn't that crazy five years 
later remember even in the midst of your 
trauma you remember the things he said 
that were mean 
little little snod but lot lots of 
little snod comments so under the radar 
that's what everybody needs to really 
also be aware of is a lot of this is so 
under the radar yeah and you don't even 
know that it's happening to you until 
you're flat on your back yeah I A lot of 
times I felt like I was in a movie Just 
watching it like some of the things that 
he did and said I 
it I I couldn't respond it was like I 
was in a 
movie I don't know I I don't it's I 
could tell you a million examples we 
could be on here for three more hours 
and I could tell you the little teeny 
wiy things and not so teeny wiy things 
that occurred that were huge red flags 
wow huge yes like and then I would think 
am I being too demanding and then I 
would ask one of my brothers I'd say 
here's a scenario is this weird yes that 
is 
weird you know so have have some people 
that you can go to who are really good 
gut check 
people yeah know call 
me yeah that I mean that can 
say no that's that's you're not crazy 
that's weird that's weird right and you 
need the truth tellers because a lot of 
people are going to tell you what you 
want to hear it's those people in your 
life that'll go like yeah no that skirt 
doesn't look good on you you need those 
people you need those people in your 
life yeah yeah and then you know okay so 
for anyone out there who's lost someone 
and and I'm so sorry um for anyone who 
has but when you first start dating a 
lot of people that or even your gut 
check people first they're going to want 
to be supportive and they're not going 
to want to poo poo everybody because 
they want you to have start having fun 
and and be happy and they want to be 
supportive so it may this happened to me 
um some of my most honest people for 
just a little while thought something 
weird now they didn't think I was going 
to be murdered or anything of course if 
they thought that somebody's going to 
kill me they would have told me right 
but they for just a little bit they went 
along with it before they said anything 
because everything I've been through wow 
wow so but that you know 
if it didn't that didn't hurt me too 
much and I you know had a good time for 
a while um but that I think sometimes at 
least at first especially if you're a um 
if you've lost your your partner people 
are gonna hesitate for a second before 
they 
say that's weird not good yeah like yeah 
we we don't like him he he creeps us out 
like they're gonna wait for a minute 
before they tell you that that's such a 
good point that I didn't even think 
about that people will be so reticent 
because they want nothing more than for 
you to be happy and they don't want to 
add they don't want to bring you back to 
the place of sadness so they'll say what 
you want to hear yeah yeah and also too 
though to their to their defense or in 
their in their defense The Narcissist 
acts real nice for a little while so 
anybody you know it would take somebody 
like you or my 
niece to who has that spidey sense to 
probably see it that early because they 
are they're over and above and beyond on 
wonderful Behavior yeah and it takes a 
real it takes somebody very 
seasoned and who will speak the truth to 
you right you need two things somebody 
that will see it and say uhuh wolf and 
sheep's clothing we're done and that's 
what we do when you know we help chrisy 
even in the beginning or anybody it's 
helping weed out people just looking at 
their profiles looking at their messages 
listening to the things that they're 
saying which are they lathering it and 
buttering it up too 
heavy right grandiose gestures and they 
make you feel like you're crazy they're 
gaslighting you and like you said am I 
the crazy person did I am I being too 
picky am I being too needy no no if any 
of that sounds like 
you they'll out a contact form on my 
website yeah yeah and and then I don't 
want anyone to think that oh that 
person's kind of boring or they're too 
quiet or right no because Greg Greg 
compared to Dave Greg is quiet 
now as you know our relationship has 
gone through the last four years and 
he's gotten to know my friends and 
family more it he's not really that 
quiet but it you know just get to know 
somebody and you know they don't have to 
be the life of the 
party sometimes you don't want the life 
of the party no no because sometimes 
life of the party comes with a lot of 
the trappings of a narcissist not always 
you can have a Dave who's the life of 
the party but a good standup mench a 
good human being that is a good partner 
but it's hard to tell the wheat from the 
chaff sometimes and you gotta there's no 
substitute for time in the dating 
process and getting to know somebody and 
I just couldn't be happier for you and 
for your love and for the peace and the 
happiness that it's brought to you and 
you have walked through the tunnel of 
fire Professor Christy Reynolds and you 
have been to Hell and back and I'm just 
so happy that you found the second lid 
to your pot and that he's such a cute 
lid and he's the man with the plan and 
that he came home from Germany and just 
kid met all the right things at all the 
right times really that's true and I 
love your analogy about the lid and the 
pot 
because I like to cook and that you know 
I love cooking utensils and cooking 
cookware and all that kind of stuff so 
that's very 
appropriate um for me so uh but yeah 
just don't don't write somebody off if 
you don't think they're exciting if 
they're not exciting enough give them a 
chance give them a chance get to know 
them right and 
sometimes when you're looking for too 
much excitement it's a dysfunctional 
attachment system you're looking for 
someone who's going to put you on pins 
and needles make you feel like you're on 
a roller coaster make you feel like 
you're falling and if a lot of this 
comes down to Childhood patterning and 
attachment stuff and if that is the 
stuff that sounds like your relationship 
pattern that's so much of what we deal 
with help is out there for you you don't 
have to do it alone and I'm glad you 
didn't do it alone me too me 
too well I'm very blessed to have people 
like you that have put your faith in us 
so thank you nothing makes me happier 
than seeing those Rings pop up on 
Facebook well thank you I'm very 
fortunate to have met you too I feel the 
same way well thank goodness John and 
Dana we're shouting you out and 
dedicating this episode to you our 
yentas they matchmade us and now you're 
matchmade that's right that's right 
thank you so much for sharing your story 
you're welcome big love to you and I 
can't wait to see you in Greg in person 
soon I can't wait to see you too thank 
you 
