[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm bellagande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smartdators 
welcome back to your favorite episodes 
which are the drum roll please Smart 
dating Academy love stories I have the 
love story of love stories today from a 
dear client former client and now a dear 
friend who recently got married I 
welcome to our show the most beautiful 
Lila who is going to share with you her 
story of how she's probably like so many 
of you out there and Lila welcome to the 
show hey hey thank you Bella I'm so 
excited to be here uh love and love 
stories are my favorite things to talk 
about uh so it's just wonderful to be 
able to have a foundation and a platform 
to do that today oh my gosh and for 
those of you who don't know Lila her is 
exquisite looking and her before and 
after photos were so awesome and 
dramatic that Lila's photos have 
probably been on every major media 
segment I've done from GMA and the Today 
Show and all over the place and it 
reminds me I should still be using your 
gorgeous photos for before and after so 
tell us how you got kind of you know 
tell us about your life before you and I 
came to our chance meeting in a fitting 
room at the limited absolutely so uh I 
grew up in a very middle class family in 
Milwaukee and met the person that I 
thought I was supposed to spend my life 
with moved to Chicago and started that 
relationship and kind of got my legs in 
Chicago kind of got my first big job and 
was doing all that great stuff very very 
focused on high performance and making 
sure I had a good career career and 
wanted to make space for our family and 
all the things that all of us typically 
would want to experience and manifest 
and so uh 
jumped in all the way and really enjoyed 
having that relationship until I didn't 
and so okay one of the things that was a 
challenge was that relationship didn't 
work and now I had this small child so 
we didn't end up having children or one 
child 
and I probably could have done better in 
that relationship but long story made 
short it didn't work out and so I found 
myself divorced 
um trying to manage a career in business 
school and you know really a single 
parent and so 
talk about transition I mean I was in 
transition and so I tried to focus on 
the things that I could control two 
reasons a makes my ego feel better like 
I can control it right right and what 
you focus on you put more energy into 
you start to become more successful and 
it becomes feeding the Beast 
there you go and I loved it it also 
helped me to numb what wasn't working it 
also helped me to ignore what wasn't 
working because I was getting so many 
accolades over here I didn't have to 
worry about the fact that hey you know 
what you probably haven't really done a 
great job keeping any relationships 
quite candid uh and you're you know your 
dating life is like non-existent and 
spotty and not really where it needs to 
be and or not where you want it to be 
and therefore I didn't focus on it 
because I felt like I don't know what to 
do 
I actually when I got married dating 
sites weren't really a thing you know 
right the uh uh online dating I didn't 
really know about it right 
um and so I was like I'm I'm I am 
feeling consciously incompetent about 
this entire process and on and on and on 
so you and I got a chance to meet and uh 
we had done a spread for uh The Limited 
back when they were still in business 
and I'll never forget being in a 
dressing room and uh you uh you and I 
met strangely the best things that 
happened to me are when my parents are 
down my pants are down and you're like 
hey I'm Helen I was like 
[Laughter] 
um 
uh you you said hey you know who are you 
we start talking and you asked me one 
question you said okay well wow Lila it 
seems like you're hitting on all 
cylinders on everything in your life and 
I was like yes sister let me just tell 
you and then you follow it up with a 
whiz bang and you said How's your love 
life and I wanted to go and hide uh 
because I was like that is not I don't 
have a story there and that's how you 
and I got connected oh my gosh so let me 
add a little watercolor to to this here 
so Lila and I somehow back in 2015 were 
both nominated for something called the 
new look of leadership and this was this 
campaign that the limited had Focus 
grouped lots of their fans and they said 
you know instead of seeing all these 
models we'd like to see like women that 
are our neighbors that you know are 
single moms or moms and they own 
businesses or their corporate Executives 
wearing clothes from the limited so they 
sought out I don't know 30 women from 
Chicago and Lyle and I happen to be in 
this fitting room at this photo shoot 
together and I'll never forget I said oh 
and we were literally couldn't see each 
other but it was this really friendly 
time I said oh what do you do and she's 
like oh I'm in sophomore sales and I 
thought oh for whom and then she told me 
I was like wait you know my friend 
Jackie and she's like wait a second what 
do you do for work I said oh you know I 
started this business it's called Smart 
dating Academy and we do date and 
relationship coaching I think you might 
have peered your head over my fitting 
room wall and I think you might have 
said 
um we need to talk 
so we exchanged phone numbers we texted 
a couple days later and I probably have 
this text in my phone it says I would 
like to have lunch with you on Tuesday 
at 12 o'clock and we can meet wherever 
you would like very Lila style and as my 
friend Jackie told me when Lila when 
Lila's drinking something you want what 
Lyle is drinking right so I said 
absolutely Lila we're gonna let's meet 
and we met at summer house in Lincoln 
Park and we had lunch and the rest 
history history you're like yes 
I need to do this right and we talked 
about fixing Pickers and how we all have 
patterns in the people that we've chosen 
in the past we've all I wish I could see 
a show of your hands dear listeners how 
many of us have picked red flaggy 
narcissistic swaggery highly Alpha 
people right not you Lila Not Me Bella 
she just crossed her eyes 
I I I 
um all I can say is you were a force to 
be dealt with because I always felt like 
I have all the answers 
just ask me and we were sitting out that 
lunch and you were like hey this is what 
I do this is how I do it today and I was 
like oh I don't know I don't know if I 
really need that and you know I don't 
know if it's really worth it and do I 
really want to pull the trigger on this 
and you said one thing to me you said I 
don't know well 
how much did it cost to get out of your 
last relationship 
and I was like 
sign me up 
what's the what was the cost of your 
divorce right on 
unbelievable for those of you who don't 
know they didn't always go the way you 
think and so uh that was just something 
I wasn't prepared for I didn't know that 
that could happen I didn't realize and 
so 
it was very expensive it was not 
something I had budgeted so besides the 
emotional challenges that you have to 
deal with with that then there's the 
financial challenges you have to deal 
with that especially if one party makes 
more than the other and so those are all 
things that were kind of swirling in my 
head and uh I had to admit that hey the 
way that I've been going and what I've 
been doing isn't working as evidenced by 
the outcomes and sometimes it takes a 
little bit of swallowing your pride and 
your ego to be able to accept help and 
have somebody say Hey listen we do 
something different and what I love 
about you Bella is that you had the guts 
and the courage to say it that was 
fantastic and that's how we got started 
and that's how we got started and then 
you started coaching with my esteemed 
colleague Lindsay so tell us about the 
journey what started what start like 
tell kind of take us through in as much 
detail as you remember what happened it 
was great there were things I was 
uncomfortable with 
we do that 
you can't grow unless you're willing to 
be comfortable so I'm like all right 
great we're going to get into this and I 
wanted to jump right into tactical let's 
get the profile design you're like 
let's let's take some steps back and you 
guys gave me like I don't know a book 
list and like some homework and I'm like 
wait a minute I don't want to do any 
homework right and I remember getting 
the book attached and one of the first 
things that Lindsay said was to read it 
and you know I was like oh man I gotta 
read the book but from the second I 
opened it it was like I was like oh my 
gosh this makes so much sense you know 
trying to find out if I was uh what is 
it avoidant or anxious or there's a 
couple different ones and so I'm like oh 
my goodness I want to find out like 
which one I am so I can understand what 
my patterns are and why do I keep 
choosing other avoidance So Not only was 
I avoid I kept choosing avoidance and 
then I realized that my pattern was to 
pick somebody who wasn't avoided make 
them a project and try to turn them into 
a secure which is impossible 
absolutely impossible but I didn't 
realize that's what I was doing and so 
so the coaching with Lindsay she's like 
that's yeah that's what you're doing I 
remember having to write out like what 
went wrong in my relationship something 
that I had never written before right so 
I went through all those change paid all 
that money 
but never stopped to write down like why 
didn't this work 
right the other thing that I was super 
uncomfortable with but it was helpful 
was I had to send an email to my friends 
saying why do you feel like I haven't 
found the right partner it was like a 
you know relationship 360 and the 
response didn't come back to me also not 
comfortable with that uh and so you know 
Lindsay kind of got all these inputs and 
it was super helpful for me to be able 
to take a step back and be like okay 
let's look at some of the patterns what 
are you doing and I had to write out 
like all these different things about 
different relationships that I'd had and 
that was so therapeutic for me that was 
so therapeutic for me and so by the time 
we actually kind of got to 
saying hey here's what the plan is for 
Lila I had gotten a chance to educate 
myself I'd gotten a chance to take a 
look at what my patterns were so that I 
didn't repeat them again and I felt 
really strong and secure that I was 
ready to take on the energy of this next 
phase because I didn't have time right 
this other thing people are like Oh I'm 
a fine relationship I was definitely 
that person I was like dude I got I'm in 
I'm in business school going to school 
at night got my my child I've got a real 
I've got a career I don't have any time 
and for those of you who have you know 
you're doing co-parenting you know that 
you only get two weekends a month right 
and it's like you know how much am I 
gonna really spend time those two 
weekends in a month and so I needed a 
system and I needed a way to be able to 
figure things out and so that was super 
super helpful to be able to have that 
coaching and so the other thing I 
remember is one of the prompts was write 
out your ideal guy right now you want 
your ideal guy or girl write out all 
their qualities and I wrote you know 
tall good looking well dressed 
and uh I wrote all those things down and 
then I remember Lindsay saying all right 
now write down all the the uh 
traits of a friend 
they were completely different and I 
remember saying to me all right Lila now 
the goal is to be able to find somebody 
and the friend that has the friend trait 
and I'm like but how will I ever notice 
that person these other things I can see 
these traits that you have written down 
here for the people who are my close 
friends it took me forever to get to 
that like I How would how how do I how 
do I find them in a bar right they're 
not holding a sign that says I'm these 
people how do I see that on Match right 
how do I see that on an online game 
she's like you don't you give it time so 
that you can find out and I was just 
like oh that sounds like it's gonna take 
a really long time I didn't want to do 
it by the way I don't want to do it I 
was like you know what I don't do that 
like I just want it figured out for me 
and she's like unfortunately it's not 
just figured out for you you have to 
give it time and I go well how will I do 
that she goes you have to go on dates 
and learn and see what happens and I go 
well how many days is it gonna take she 
goes I don't know I don't know how long 
it's gonna take she goes But ultimately 
you have to give yourself time 
to be able to see these things and by 
the way when you're doing it you can't 
be sleeping with the person and I was 
like oh I am out 
[Laughter] 
[Music] 
uh really I'll never forget we were at I 
think it was Four Seasons we were having 
glass champagne and she was talking she 
was giving me all these you know kind of 
here's your plan and uh she was like 
well Lila you know the plan is that you 
know you're gonna be on Match for this 
much time you're not gonna you know we 
just have very specific things but none 
of them were oh you get a chance to date 
and kind of have this relationship 
because one of the things I learned in 
attached was you know once you start 
sleeping with somebody then you get 
oxytocin exchange and that makes you 
attached it's like the same thing as 
what you exchange when you're 
breastfeeding a baby I didn't know that 
so how are you going to be able to see 
these things and stay objective if 
you've got oxytocin floating around and 
I was just like oh man come on so she's 
like no that's that's the plan this is 
what we have to do 
and so I felt like I was leaving with 
like how am I gonna do that I was like I 
really want those things but I still 
just don't know how to do it and she 
said just give it time I go well how do 
you know it is time she goes when you're 
having two or three dates in one day 
or week 
and I go 
I don't have time for two or three dates 
in one week 
and she's like that's that's how you 
know when you can when you will 
prioritize it so that you're seeing this 
person all the time that's when you know 
that you're connected it's safe and it's 
and it's you know you've you've now 
started to build these traits and you 
can see these traits play out hey I've 
never done that before in any dating and 
you all know your listener we are slow 
and steady right we do a day to week for 
a few weeks and if that person doesn't 
throw down red flags and seems like 
they've got all your high ghqs high and 
good husband qualities because Lyle is 
female looking for a male we and it's a 
date of a week and then when he doesn't 
throw down any red flags seems like he's 
tracking for the qualities that make you 
happy then you can increase it to two 
dates a week then maybe over the third 
month you ramp that up to three dates a 
week and then you get exclusive so 
there's a whole method to this which 
she's Crossing her eyes right now right 
it's it's a big deal and it is so 
different because everyone we're not 
taught how to do this we're not taught 
how to date right so when we come in and 
we're like here's what you're going to 
do and we're going to survey your 
friends and family and I love data for 
those of you that know me I'm a former 
Finance person ran an engineering 
company everything I want to have a good 
sample set I want to know what I think I 
want to know what Lila thinks I want to 
know what her people think about her 
dating history and that gives us this 
comprehensive set of facts to really 
guide people through this comfortable 
not always effective let's get into that 
now so 
very effective 
um so after Lindsay kind of gave me that 
rundown you know I I was 
like I want to do it right and so she's 
like really well 
this is what your sister said in the 
feedback and this is what your friend 
said in the feedback and I was like oh 
my God oh my gosh they said that and 
she's like yeah and I was like oh no 
dang that's that's probably true and 
she's like yeah so why don't we try 
something different so I was finally 
bought in it took a little bit just I'll 
be I'll tell you I was resistant it's 
hard to change sure and uh I was like 
all right I'll sign up for your program 
right I'll do the whole time I had 
already signed up but I was like I'll 
actually take action on it right because 
there's one thing to say yes I want to 
work with you it's another thing to 
actually do it right you do the work 
make to do it right and so I said I'm in 
all right I'm in give me your program it 
certainly can't be any worse than 
something I've done in the past and I 
and I and I follow the rules Hook Line 
Sinker and uh you did I'll tell you you 
know everything from the photo shoot to 
writing the script and the emails and 
all that making it so that I had it down 
to a science which was helpful for me 
because I'm a seller right so that whole 
idea of kind of building a pipeline made 
sense to me right and it's like you know 
you're not going to close on your first 
coffee you need time to kind of float it 
out right and so that made a lot of 
sense to me that was actually kind of 
fun that was a ton of fun just kind of 
going through and then having like the 
the Google voice that went to that one 
first and having the interactions with 
the people so that they would ask me for 
my telephone number and some people 
didn't I remember you saying this is not 
about a pen pal relationship we're not 
trying to have weeks and weeks of pen 
pal we want people to ask you for your 
number and that's it and that was easier 
to close for and I wasn't so attached to 
it emotionally I also remember her 
saying you're not allowed to reach out 
to anybody for the first two or three 
weeks they have to reach out to you and 
then we switched it yeah then I could 
reach out to people and actually I met 
my now husband from a reach out and it 
was funny because I would probably have 
never picked him up right okay go there 
let's okay you're dating all these 
people you got your funnel you've got 
lot Lila when you see her photos you all 
you're going to look at our website 
She's stunning okay the girls breaking 
the internet at this point there is no 
lack of dates going on so now you're 
sitting down you're dating in a 
different way but this was a long time 
into the process this wasn't right away 
no how long had you been dating was it a 
year 
no no no no no so you and I started 
somewhere in the October time frame in 
2015 and I think my profile got up and 
going by like January right so January 
of 2016 is when my profile actually 
happened so I was only dating for about 
a month of just random now granted I've 
been divorced and doing my own random 
stuff yeah aside for a while but as far 
as your program it was about a month and 
uh so that first month I couldn't reach 
out to anybody I had to just take the 
flow coming in right and they had to go 
through my process it was funny because 
some people are like oh I've got a I've 
gotta when they've got the Google Voice 
they're like I have to like you know 
have you paid or oh I have to have an 
exact time to talk to you because like I 
can talk on this timer this time at this 
time and a lot of people would filter 
themselves out they're like I'm not 
going to schedule an appointment great 
buzz off bye there were all of these 
kind of barriers to get people to opt 
out which was great because you didn't 
care because you're like I'm not looking 
for Mr right I'm just going through this 
program right 
um so the second month I was allowed to 
reach out to people and that was hey 
you're going to reach out to I think it 
was I don't know you guys gave me some 
quota for today three to five people per 
day yep and you're like hey and we 
already had everything pre-written so it 
wasn't a lot of time I was just like all 
right I got 15 minutes right and uh 
you're like you're not looking for Mr 
right you're not looking for profile all 
you're looking for is for the person to 
have interesting photos not one 
not one photo no photos with kids in 
them and you had all those different 
things but just nothing negative in 
their profile that's all you're looking 
for is nothing negative in their profile 
they seem like fun that's it and so it 
was easy I was like oh well great 
I had like it was really really simple 
because I wasn't overthinking it and one 
of those emails was one of those reach 
outs was to my husband and you did the 
reach out to him 
and now let's just ask this question was 
he 
what Drew you to him and was he like the 
people you had dated and married in the 
past 
so no no not at all not at all what drew 
me to him is he had he seemed like fun 
like he didn't take himself too 
seriously he had like all these pictures 
of him on the beach where the Santa hat 
on with all these different people and 
he just seemed like fun and actually it 
stood out because most guys don't have 
all that they've got them like some 
sporting event you know or yeah or 
taking the picture or you know what I 
mean like guys usually didn't have a ton 
of pictures right or them it's um you 
know as you could tell it was that then 
LinkedIn profile shot which was also 
kind of just not stuffy and so he had so 
many photos 
oh he didn't take himself too seriously 
I can tell he was kind of funny and I 
was like okay I get enough right like 
and it was that's all I thought 
okay so he looked cute to you now you 
send your first volley over that and 
that a message now let's go step by step 
through what happened because I love all 
of this 
so it's now end of january-ish or early 
February 
and uh I send that volley out now 
granted I've already got flow right so 
I've already had like one or two dates 
with other people right there's deal 
flow coming through 
um and I throw the volley over and he 
bites and he says are you real 
and I'm like I'm real he's like because 
your email or your your message seems so 
professional it almost seems like it's 
not real and I'm like I'm real and so I 
then I have my next kind of already 
pre-written message set up and he goes 
wow are you a poet because you speak so 
well and I'm like no I'm not a poem I'm 
just a person then bam the next email 
because again I'm just trying to get him 
to ask for my number right right and 
right on time he asked for my number and 
he goes well you know can I have your 
number we should talk and I gave him the 
Spiel I was like hey I'm free Sunday at 
one 
whatever it was so he calls me and he 
has an accent and he's not originally 
from the United States and now did you 
know that before did you know that no no 
because I had never talked to him before 
so he's right it was only kind of the 
the chat uh and so he calls me on my 
Google Voice number and uh 
he says hey I'm Donnie 
and uh I was like wow he's got a really 
thick accent and so he's like you know I 
have to tell you Lila I'm really better 
in person a lot of times people can't 
understand me over the phone so if 
you're free maybe we could get together 
for a coffee and I'm like well it was a 
Sunday I just so happened to not have my 
daughter it just so happened to actually 
be available and I was like I'm actually 
apparently usually I would have like 
booked it out I was like I'm actually 
available this afternoon and he was like 
great you know where would you like to 
get together I'm like well I'm in this 
area he's like I'm actually in that area 
too 
we ended up we ended up living only 
about a mile and a half from each other 
too much crazy so it was easy for us to 
like find a place at the time was in 
Andersonville to have a coffee he was 
like why don't we have a coffee today 
and I'm like okay well sure let's do it 
so we got together like an hour and a 
half later and I walked into the the 
coffee shop he was already there sitting 
down grab my coffee 
and I'll never forget looking over at 
him he was sitting in this area that was 
super sunny and he had the biggest smile 
on his face and I was like oh he's cute 
and he did he look like his photos 
he was cuter in person of course because 
you get like sunglasses on and some of 
them anyway so I came over and I sat 
down and we talked and I thought he was 
cute 
and uh I remember him saying you know 
when you come to my country we'll do X Y 
and Z and I was thinking dude I remember 
coming to your country I don't even know 
if we were going to see you again like 
this is just kind of a part of my flow 
right uh and he was just really nice and 
so then at the end of the day uh we were 
about to leave and and I was like okay 
because I always just would catch an 
Uber to go home because no way am I 
getting anybody's car uh and he was like 
well I can drive you and I'm like I 
don't know you stranger danger so I'll 
just wait for an Uber and he was like my 
car is right here 
and I'm like I don't know something 
about the guy just seems nice maybe I 
should go with it so I did your God said 
go and I remember his car had so much 
stuff in and I could tell I was like oh 
he is a dad which I knew he you know and 
I could just see all the baby stuff in 
the car and that actually endeared me to 
him sure oh so not only does he have a 
child but he's like engaged with the kid 
right he's in it there's Cheez-Its 
crushed cheese crackers and as a you 
know single mom I was like I get it 
right now I was like oh this is even 
though you know not that usually would 
have driven me crazy like oh my gosh to 
clean up your car that day it was like 
okay so this is he's a just a normal 
person super engaging this kid and I 
actually like that 
so he gives me a ride and I'll give him 
my exact address I'm like you can just 
drop me off at this corner close to it 
right right and uh that was our first 
date 
oh my gosh so was he better in person 
oh my gosh 150 yes I'm so happy that we 
just didn't just do the call he was 
better in person just a warm Charming 
sweet person 
okay now so the first day it's good now 
what happens you've got some deal flow 
how where does this mysterious gentleman 
Donnie can we say what country he's from 
he's from Spain you guys 
and it's phenomenal so 
I really liked him but I had a lot of 
things to do right so and I've got you 
know and I was still in the program and 
we were still like you know flowing and 
he was like well hey let's get together 
again and I was like yeah but like if I 
had to schedule it I'm like dude I 
schedule a month and a half out and I 
know that sounds crazy but I couldn't do 
stuff during the week because I had to 
go to school at night and I had homework 
and I you know and so I really only had 
two weekends a month and I would plan 
those in advance right and so it's like 
okay I don't have another free Friday 
lunch or whatever until like a month 
from now right 
um and so people had to be cool with 
that and a lot of people weren't people 
were like no I kind of want to wait for 
you that long and you're like great the 
red flag I said well we'll tell you like 
I went on dates but we're like yeah I 
never really get back to girls they 
don't really like me because I'm just 
not like available and you'd be like 
oh what's wrong with you people will 
tell you like when you're not like 
trying to hook up with them and you're 
you're your emotional bank account isn't 
at zero and you're like no I have a plan 
and you're feeling secure 
you'll be like what is the 
how did I not see like this kind of 
stuff before and I also didn't drink so 
I didn't drink when I went out on dates 
and I would only meet people for lunch 
I would not go out on evening dates 
because I didn't want to have the 
pressure of you know having that awkward 
you know thing of who's going to kiss 
and we're gonna go and I also didn't 
drink so I didn't want that to kind of 
slur my thinking we all know our 
thinking a little slurred so uh those 
were kind of my two kind of benchmarks 
that I had as well 
um and so yeah we had our initial date I 
couldn't get back get them back on the 
calendar uh for about another month and 
so our second date he was like what I 
really liked he was like okay great it 
was also a Sunday Sundays afternoons 
were our time right so a month later 
dude says fine I'll take a month from 
now yeah I love that about him he didn't 
give me crap he wasn't liking to you 
know and then sometimes you get each 
other's like number and then they're 
just texting you all 
if you're like dude I 
like I I can't do that much right away 
like that right 
um it was a month and a half it was a 
Sunday again and uh he said I will set 
up the reservations now that was 
different to me because a lot of guys 
were like let's get together and I was a 
vegetarian this time and they'd be like 
well I don't know anything about 
vegetarian so you got to figure it all 
out red flag 
the guys just don't right so he was like 
I got it I got it set up we'll go to 
this place it's good for vegetarians so 
he had it all set up 
we went and we had uh brunch together 
and man was it fun we had a great I 
talked his era uh and uh it was just so 
relaxing and so easy right easy easy and 
um after brunch he's like why don't we 
walk to Foster Beach we walked over to 
Foster Beach because it was close by and 
again this is we're both in the same 
neighborhood so that helped right like 
that helped 
um and uh we walked to Foster Beach and 
we're looking at the beach and I'll 
never forget he he he looks at me and he 
gives me a kiss and I'm like oh oh my 
gosh oh my gosh oh my gosh oh my gosh 
and so I'm like I don't know what to do 
I don't know if that's okay I don't just 
do I don't know what to do uh but it 
felt great and so I was like you know 
what that's all right just flow with it 
and uh we walked back to the car 
and I got in the car and he was like I'd 
love to see you again and I was like 
yeah definitely now that was in like I 
don't know maybe april-ish late March 
early April 
I didn't see him again we had a lunch 
date for the next month and I got crazy 
with work and I had to cancel then my 
mom came to live with us or not came to 
live my mom came to stay for an extended 
period of time and I just didn't have it 
I was like I don't have that extra 
moment or I didn't for whatever reason 
I just didn't have it as a matter of 
fact I was so like done my three months 
was up 
I wanted to just kind of have nothing 
for a little while I just needed nothing 
for the law so I actually didn't make 
the date with him and it's gonna make me 
feel bad about it he just said no 
problem and he didn't text me again 
another great thing he wasn't like oh 
let's get together he was just like I 
get it let me know when you're not busy 
great so uh I had a period where I just 
did nothing I didn't I wasn't online I 
wasn't here I just did nothing right 
um and then towards the end of July 
towards the end of June now you've had 
two dates with the man okay two dates 
and now we're going from January 
and now we're in June okay so for those 
of you who are like no guys will just 
flake out just keep listening to this 
okay now we're five months later I know 
I know and I don't know what happened 
but that day I was I remember where I 
was I was at Montreal speech and 
I was doing something and I thought of 
him and I was like you know what I owe 
him dinner he bought me lunch I blew him 
off for the second time we used to get 
together 
I owe that guy dinner and he and you 
know Lindsay and I when we've been 
talking I was like I really like Donnie 
I really like Donnie she's like I don't 
know you should think about Donnie and 
uh uh 
I said I really like him a lot and so I 
said you know what I'm gonna reach out 
to him and if he responds great I don't 
know what he's up to it doesn't matter 
but I'm just gonna say Hey listen and I 
remember the text I said hey 
um you probably don't remember me 
but you and I had a couple of dates and 
I know it's been a long time but I'd 
love it if you'd let me make up the the 
I love it if you let me make it up to 
you by treating you to dinner next 
Friday 
just that's it that was the whole text 
and uh 
he responded and he was like of course I 
remember you 
and I would love to get together for 
dinner but I'm in Argentina wherever he 
was I was traveling uh and so I can't 
get together with you until the end of 
the month which is the best response 
ever you like for me it was great that 
he wasn't just like sitting around 
eating Captain Crunch just waiting for 
something he was like yeah I'm busy I'm 
doing my thing I got a life too I got a 
life too you're gonna have to wait Lila 
that was the best thing for me so we so 
we wait and I've made reservations for 
this place 
it was my first dinner date after all 
that I was like I'm ready for a dinner 
date it's been several months I'll give 
the guys Saturday I'll give the guy 
uh and so I was sitting there waiting 
for him I was nervous I was nervous 
because I was like but I love this he 
didn't give me any crap about not 
reaching out or not being available he 
just 
just easy breezy easy breezy so I'm 
sitting there and I see him walk up to 
the restaurant he's black shirt on black 
pants and I was like wait is that him he 
had cut his hair and he I don't know 
what he did but man oh man when he 
walked into that restaurant I was like 
I don't know if it was just Tanner I 
don't know what it was but I was just 
like oh that's him oh that's a fine man 
that just walked in and I asked that's 
him yeah yeah and I was like oh he's 
cute oh my goodness he's cute right 
um and so we had a nice lunch or a nice 
dinner it didn't take more than an hour 
and a half because I don't like long 
dinners and so I was like well great it 
was great to see you Donnie and uh you 
know 
blah blah 
so he goes so are you busy right now and 
I was like well it's just you know it's 
ten I'm an early night girl right 
because I didn't want to have that 
weirdness right and uh 
he was like well I would love it if I 
could take you out dancing I'm like you 
want to take me out dancing and he's 
like yeah and I was like well what if we 
don't have it planned we're going he's 
like no no 
I know and I'm like really he's like 
yeah and so we get into an Uber and we 
go to some place downtown and we saw 
sedans and I mean we had 
we had a great time I was like this is 
awesome he was so much fun and you know 
I let go of the Rings I let him kind of 
manage and we were in an Uber going back 
and uh I was like I've had so much fun 
with you and he was like I've had fun 
with you too and now he's like but you 
know Lila we could have more fun I said 
what do you mean he goes you just need 
to be available 
been a really long time since I've seen 
that gave me goosebumps you just need to 
be available hi avoidant nice to meet 
you 
he's like you just need to be 
available and you know what I was like 
the last time we got together was March 
not too much to add like I was like you 
make a strong point right right we can 
we can do this more than quarterly 
tell you we went from 
that date to having a date once a week 
and then we went from once a week at our 
high point we did get to 
uh every every day so I could get 
together with them early in the morning 
then he had to pick up his son and then 
we could get together like midday 
because he was coaching doing some other 
stuff and I could get together with him 
for lunch and then after my classes were 
over and I had everything done and he 
was done with everything at like 10 30 
at night we'd get together again and I 
mean we were like 
we were like Inseparable and it was 
great and it was easy it was the first 
time I'd ever been in a relationship 
where I was like this is the most 
natural easy thing I've ever experienced 
it just it just flowed and to be candid 
with you it still is it still is it 
still is that's my story 
it still is and how did you know your 
culturally different and that's a hard 
thing sometimes for people to get their 
arms around could I date someone who is 
a different ethnicity A different race a 
different culture you had all like how 
did you imagine where you would be 
versus where you are and how has that 
been to navigate 
so it is it is an effort right so first 
off you've got to be open to cultures 
which I was 
um I was already very familiar with the 
European culture for whatever reason I 
just was it just felt natural what I 
liked was his values right in in his 
culture it's all about family it's all 
about slowing things down savoring the 
moment that was quite can't believe the 
opposite of what I was used to so I 
really enjoyed and thought it was 
refreshing and exciting and adventurous 
to be with somebody who was of a 
different culture right the race wasn't 
as important it was more of just a 
different culture and bringing something 
new and different to even my experience 
right 
um so that actually wasn't a hard thing 
for me to get over and it was less about 
what we were different 
in it was more about are we aligned on 
our values and be candid with you you 
know I already had a child here I had a 
child and one of the things Lindsay 
coached me early on to say was do you 
want more children 
right because if you don't ask that 
question and if the answer to that 
question would have been different I 
would have to like hey this is fun I 
don't let you go why because I knew I 
didn't want to be pressured to have a 
child for somebody when they gave that 
answer of someday someday no I'm done I 
am done 
issue later and so we were just aligned 
on like nope and interestingly enough he 
also was divorced and had a very young 
child right very young child so he was 
almost like we were you know we were in 
the right place of Life at the same time 
I had dated people were like you know 10 
years older than me and their kids were 
in college and it was like yeah I know 
all about kids I know all about and 
you're like do you because like I still 
need to be like you know having Friday 
nights eat looking at you know Frozen 
and they didn't really want to do that 
they're like no I don't want to do this 
I want to go out and you're like so 
we're not at the same place in life 
right the good thing about he and I was 
we were in the same place in life and so 
that really really helped more so than 
where he was culturally where I was or 
my race or whatever like that was less 
of a concern 
um 
yeah I love that I love that and he's a 
totally different package and yet the 
perfect live to your pot oh yeah we 
climbed Kilimanjaro in 2018 together oh 
God yes okay let's get to the story so 
now we've been dating yep okay we're 
dating start dating in 2016. 2018 I 
finished my NBA and then I was like all 
right it was a part of finishing my MBA 
I want to climb Kilimanjaro never been 
camping just yeah let's just do that and 
uh so we decided to start training for 
that blah blah so summer of 2018 and 
we're we were in Tanzania we were 
sleeping in a tent for seven days 
there's no bathrooms really and like you 
know you're living on the land and I 
said you know if we can get through this 
together then he's probably the right 
person and so we uh summited which was 
great and had this great experience and 
when we came down and had our Victory 
dinner after taking a shower for the 
first time in seven weeks I can't even 
tell you how much dirt was under my 
seven weeks I'm sorry about 10 weeks 
seven days oh Jesus I've been taking a 
shower in seven days and uh yeah so 
anyway after taking our shower and 
getting to our Victory dinner we yeah 
we're with other people as well 
decided to ask him to marry me okay wait 
say that again you decided what I 
decided to ask him to marry me now I did 
not check that with him first right 
because I had gone through this really 
terrible divorce lost so much money and 
I was like no I don't want to be married 
but whatever reason I decided that that 
when if we could get if we could climb 
Kilimanjaro together that would be a 
sign to say this is the right one and so 
uh and I realized I didn't really have a 
problem with being married I had a 
problem with losing money again which 
there's things you can do to manage that 
so I'm like all right well if I can just 
manage that then I don't have to have my 
life you know I can move forward down 
this path so 
uh 
we're sitting at dinner I told one of 
the other people like hey I'm going to 
ask him to marry me tonight so can you 
get it on my phone it's a great video he 
has no idea it's coming none you guys 
don't talk about getting married but I 
remember you called me before you went 
and you told me you bought a climbing 
ring some REI and you're like what do 
you think I'm like do it I 
I'm so I'm waiting so she's got this 
climbing ring which I think is a ring 
that you buy for yourself that shows I 
made it up the summit well it's just a 
plastic ring because climbers don't want 
metal oh okay 
and so you can get it so yes so I got 
this climber's ring and uh I start 
telling this story about life and 
happiness and he's like sitting there 
like yeah I'm alive let's tell them one 
of our stories and I said and uh you 
know Donna you were a key part of a lot 
of the joy that's been in my life and so 
I thought this would be a great time to 
ask you to marry me and he's like 
what did you just say like you it was so 
funny he was just like 
um uh 
did you 
just said I do not and how many people 
were in the room now at this point eight 
no 12. people we we summon it with I 
asked them these are the folks we've 
been living with now for the last you 
know seven days 
and so he's there I don't recommend it 
by the way definitely he paused for 
about 30 seconds it felt like like a 
half an hour 
um and I've got like the people ready 
with champagne and a cake which sounds 
like a small thing but in Tanzania there 
is no like you know Jewel you can go to 
somebody's mama has to make the cake and 
like yeah anyway so I've got everything 
ready right and uh they're waiting for 
him to say yes talk about role reversal 
and he's looking at me like I can't 
believe you just said that he goes 
oh yeah yeah yes yes 
I love that oh he says yes they bring 
out the cake I am relieved and happy and 
thank you Lila why did you do that that 
was a terrible way to ask and uh we had 
this huge celebration it was great and 
the next day I said now listen I realize 
I put you on the spot so you know the 
people who are here we never have to see 
them again we can wait we don't have to 
tell people why don't you try it on for 
a little while and see how it feels and 
then if we decide we still want to like 
you know go down this path we can so I 
kind of gave him an out 
thank God he was like you know I 
appreciate that because that was a 
surprise and I want to know what changed 
and blah blah long story made short we 
came back and we waited until 
Thanksgiving to tell our kids and our 
family how many months July August we 
waited until like November to really 
tell people 
um and uh because he needed to be ready 
too right and I was totally fine with 
that I was like brother take your time 
you know I made to ask I made the ask 
right you did it I made the ask and that 
was and you said yes and I'm okay with 
whatever happens from here out 
I made the ask right and so uh yeah so 
we we told the family and then uh we set 
up our wedding for Spain and then it was 
covid so we had to cancel it and so we 
ended up getting married in Puerto Rico 
we eloped and it was amazing and yeah 
the rest is history I was going to come 
to your wedding in 
in Spain I know but then that dreaded 
darn pandemic came into the middle of it 
all I couldn't be happier for you and 
for those I mean I want you to know and 
this was not your first go-around with 
marriage right I mean it can happen 
yeah it was probably my third go-round 
I'm not the first one 
the first one you know happened kind of 
like a mulligan right it's a do-over 
then there was that second one and now 
three times a charm I always say the 
first the first is too young the second 
one he was just the wrong person it's 
just the wrong person uh and then the 
third one is was the one is the right 
one and you know what I like about the 
about this time around I chose him 
the other two times the people chose me 
and I was like okay and I kind of went 
along with it this time I chose I chose 
him all the way through and that has 
worked out oh that gave me goosebumps 
and from every you sent the first 
message you controlled the speed of the 
relationship you asked him out in the 
second quarter for this game 
okay right and you dated for years and 
it was easy and you decided 
I do want to be married to him and Li 
and dear listeners so many of us are 
like God divorce sucks God marriage 
sucks I don't ever want to do that again 
but what I will tell you is just like 
Sweet Lila when you meet the right lid 
to your pot that can change 
that can change and you never know 
what's going to happen and if there is a 
story and a situation that can inspire 
you to go here's this girl that came in 
who was like it's going to be on my 
terms ends up 
so to some extent you control the terms 
and yet 
he took you salsa dancing yeah 
yeah yeah I mean it was a nice little 
ballet of you know kind of back and 
forth I got a chance to play the role 
that I felt was the most safe right I 
never had anybody kind of like getting 
into my boundaries or me feeling like I 
needed to I didn't want any of that 
because I had been through so much of 
that already right all this expectation 
that people have like this and you're 
then yeah I I really needed somebody who 
could kind of meet me where I was at and 
then we could fast forward together and 
he's always risen to the occasion every 
single time he's like okay wait you want 
to do what I'm down he's always been 
okay with that right which is great 
that's what I needed that's what I 
needed I just didn't know yeah you need 
a partner that's right a partner a 
partner a great partner we still have so 
much fun together we have so much fun 
together and I'm so grateful that I get 
a chance to experience this part of my 
life with him 
I have full body Goosebumps I couldn't 
be happier for you and I'm so honored to 
you know just have met you in that 
fitting room that day 
it nothing is coincidence right nothing 
is coincidence and just the way this is 
played out right that was just the 
beginning of a whole bunch of pieces 
falling into place for me so you're 
coaching your guidance your firm hands 
sometimes when you needed it 
um has made all the difference for me in 
the world and I will tell you I remember 
you saying a lot of people go through my 
program don't just get better in their 
relationships they also get better in 
their careers my career has taken off it 
has taken off by applying some of the 
same principles right to for what you 
told me and managing like okay make sure 
you understand who you are make sure you 
understand what you're doing and make 
sure you understand how you're showing 
up and how are people receiving you 
right all that has to do with it it's 
not just the dating piece it's you as a 
whole and so uh my life has just 
has just been amazing I will tell you 
and it just continues to expand all the 
time oh my gosh you went from a rock 
star software sales person now you're a 
yoga teacher you're a speaker that 
commands five digits to speak because 
you speak on and we're like giving each 
other badass looks across the the screen 
here you've built the life you love and 
you have so much love in your life I do 
I do and they all go together so if 
anybody my message to everybody anybody 
who's listening to this if anything I 
said to you 
um real you know you can resonate with 
it or you're like okay that speaks to me 
take action 
do something give yourself an 
opportunity to try something different 
or new give yourself the opportunity and 
the compassion to learn a new way of 
being so that you can get different 
results if you want things to change you 
have to change and that's the hardest 
part it's you changing right letting go 
of those old patterns that don't serve 
us maybe they make us feel good but they 
don't serve us right and it takes a 
strong person emotionally people say I 
need help here 
I need help absolutely and 
I'm so glad that we were a step in your 
process I'm just grateful to know you 
and uh and I love this story it's like 
the best part of my job getting to 
relive these fun stories and fun moments 
and the fact that you have so much love 
has changed the trajectory of your 
daughter's life has changed the 
trajectory of your stepson's life 
because they're going to grow up in 
healthy happy fun homes you have changed 
generationally what will happen in your 
families 
that is such a strong statement now that 
gave me goosebumps 
you're right that's how important this 
stuff is and we take it so casually like 
it's just something to do no it's that 
important it's that important yeah it is 
that important and if you're debating 
whether or not Coulda Woulda should have 
and if you're able to do this do it 
because you're not only changing your 
life but you're changing the lives of 
those around you in conceivably profound 
ways that you can't even imagine and 
isn't that exciting thank you Bella 
thank you for all that you do thank you 
for everything that you're putting out 
into the world thank you for helping 
people to find their true selves so that 
they can show up and attract what they 
actually want 
I love you Lila mwah I get to have 
drinks with you probably by the time 
this episode is dropping we will be 
downtown having something non-alcoholic 
together I might be having some 
champagne even though she won't share 
champagne with me anymore 
[Music] 
Jamaican diamond 
s we love you thank you for sharing your 
story made my day 
smart daters until we meet again take 
some inspiration do something for 
yourself take that change follow me on 
Instagram at smartdatingacademy sign up 
for our newsletter at 
smartdatingacademy.com and if you are 
called to make a real change in your 
life send us an email about coaching 
with us and get on the wait list until 
next week I bid you farewell 
