do you have any gems you'd like to drop 
on a listener while you're here just be 
open like get out of your head go out 
have fun say yes go out and experience 
life and live life well I just see 
people who get so sad that they aren't 
with somebody whatever and they're 
almost making themselves smaller too 
like make yourself bigger like make 
yourself open to experience and doing 
things and see what comes your way and 
maybe it'll come your way and maybe it 
won't but in the meantime you got to 
experience life and that's not a bad 
thing oh what great advice and I'm so 
grateful that you chose to put your 
dating life in our hands and very 
honored to have you as a client and as a 
friend thank you thank you I do think 
that you're probably going to have to 
give a little um you know subsidy to 
Dana and Sarah Jane at some point you 
might need to hire them onto your team 
take the damn Village to BU love people 
I'm looking for stringers all over the 
place 
