[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast and today I have the guest of 
all guests I'm so excited to introduce 
to you my friend tamson fidal who is if 
you've been hiding under a rock and you 
don't know who she is first of all get 
on her Instagram but she's a journalist 
she's a digital content creator she is 
an author she is a 13 time Emmy Award 
winner tamson welcome to the Smart 
dating Academy podcast how are you to 
see you good to see you I'm so good I'm 
delighted that you are here with us 
let's Jump Right In And like I said for 
anyone who doesn't know this beautiful 
being that is tamson just tell us how 
you got to the zoom how did you get to 
where you are tell us your story oh gosh 
um you know I well thank you first for 
having me here because I you know I 
always love to talk to you so I we we we 
figured out a way to do it no matter 
what the schedule looks like no matter 
who has to be picked up where what 
meeting are we have so I'm very happy 
about that um you know I don't know well 
me too I I don't know how I got here I 
you know I've been a journalist for 30 
years that was that was what I started 
out doing I've always been curious about 
people um and storytelling was something 
that was important to me bringing you 
know attention to voices that couldn't 
be heard there was no social media there 
wasn't even a cell phone back then uh 
but you know so that was the the the way 
we did it is that we would go out we 
take a camera we'd get somebody's story 
we try to help them in whatever way we 
could and um we'd air it and see who 
else in the community help to you know 
that's what I did for years and then 
when um I came to New York I started 
working at in the dating World a bit I 
had looked at the landscape when I was 
visiting here a couple of different 
times and I heard there was 100,000 more 
single women than men in New York City 
and that was way back then and I thought 
that those odds like were kind of awful 
and um my husband at the time and I 
started a matchmaking business and a 
coaching business so that was kind of 
fun and I enjoyed that wrote A Few books 
uh you know did a lot of dating events 
you know had a really good time did date 
coaching with women and um and then 
moved on from there back into just like 
a full-time journalism and then about 
two months ago I left that to go out of 
my own a bit and work on some things 
that are important to me in this second 
wave of 
Life amazing and I love matchmaking day 
coaching drove you back to journalism so 
what was your experience in New York 
City tell us a little bit about this you 
you hear you're married you hear that 
there's 100,000 more single women in 
Manhattan or across all of New York and 
so you're like hey let's start a 
business were you matchmaking women were 
you matchmaking men tell me about 
this yeah uh the women were our clients 
and the men were the people that we 
would come and we would vet the because 
that was the you know that was the big 
issue it's like finding men and um that 
were interested in dating at the time 
that were um looking for women within 
their age bracket so there wasn't like 
such a steep you know big difference who 
were looking at commit because we're 
talking about women that were in their 
early 30s um for the most part and so it 
was an interesting business you know 
anytime you're dealing with Affairs of 
the heart it's emotional and difficult 
it was um before really Facebook had 
taken off and so I mean it was like 
right around starting so it was a little 
bit easier because people weren't like 
looking at someone's Instagram from like 
a year ago so that made it easier um but 
I think what was what was what I learned 
from that what I really learned from 
that is what we put on our lists of what 
we want and who we went end up with or 
who really is going to make us happy can 
look very very very different and that 
changes the years too so you can go into 
something knowing what your value system 
is knowing what's important to you and 
maybe the type of Life You' like to lead 
but I think that it's really difficult 
when you number it one through 20 and 
then you hope that you're going to find 
that person because ultimately there was 
a lot of disappointment in that 100% And 
so many women at all ages whether 
they're in their 20s 30s 7s it's you 
know good on paper as you and I both 
sometimes isn't worth the paper that 
it's written on no no it it's not it's 
not and so right so it sounds like you 
probably exited your business right as I 
was entering the business in 2010 
because this is our 15E totally 
anniversary at Smart dating Academy so 
we've set up as you guys know dear 
listeners an entire process yeah that's 
exactly right yep to take people through 
what do you need versus what do you want 
who's going to make you happy and then 
starting to search for your high gpq 
person high and good partner qualities 
right and red flags and people that make 
you happy and so much to this so we are 
very sympatico in uh in what we've done 
in the past so so then you okay you 
exited the business exited your marriage 
tell us a little bit about that and then 
your re-entry into the dating world oh 
yeah um my my re-entry into the dating 
world was slow I went through through a 
divorce which was fod for you know 
people that were setting up people uh 
but working 
with a husband at the time and trying to 
keep it all together didn't work for us 
um and so I wrote a book about divorce 
and about kind of starting over as a new 
single and I think it 
was in a lot of ways important for me to 
do to get it out you know but it was 
also a conversation that was starting to 
be had a little more openly so I was 
happy to be contributing to that or a 
voice in that 
conversation and then I I went through 
my divorce in 
201 12 and it it took me a long time 
like I dated but I didn't go on apps and 
I just didn't I I was really like I put 
my head down and worked like that's 
really what I did and I did that for a 
couple of different reasons I don't 
think I was ready to get back out there 
I don't think that I was I really wanted 
something to feel solid and nothing did 
at the time my job was a little wobbly 
because I I had my head was in a whole 
another space my marriage had you know 
had gone away and so um it was important 
for me to get something solid so I 
focused on my job almost too much 
probably and then in um 2000 we always 
go back and forth about the the year I 
think it was 18 um I met Ira in Florida 
at an event we were both at we just 
happened to be I happened to be in the 
hotel he was at an event um and I was 
not ready for a relationship at the time 
but I thought like he's nice to got with 
like I'm about to dinner with him and 
stuff when he's in 
town and then I realized W I really like 
him I kind of look forward when he comes 
back to town I'd like spending more time 
with him you know it was a very it was a 
slow process I had no list at that point 
I just was not interested in getting 
married again that was what I I said and 
over time I realized like hey this is 
somebody I want to walk the earth with 
like I want to be with this person like 
the thing what's important to him is 
important to me you know his value 
system you know who he is who he is with 
this family as a father as a husband as 
all those things and so um you at 50 I 
got remarried which I you know didn't 
think I would do but um it was 
interesting to see how the dating 
landscape had changed quite a bit from 
it being digital to uh you know to that 
was where most people were meeting and 
the fact that we didn't was interest too 
to me but I um I have always been very 
fascinated about how you date a little 
bit differently as you get older or 
after you go through a divorce I'm sure 
you have a lot of clients like that for 
sure okay so for all the single people 
out there they want to know okay so 
tamson you were at an event in Florida 
and now who like how did this meat cute 
happen did he walk up to you like tell 
us the 
juice no it's not very it's not very 
exciting I hear um but we he and his 
friend were standing at the elevator 
bank and me and my friend kind of walked 
up to where they were and she kind of 
did like a quick like this is ton I this 
is who everybody is because she knew 
everybody and I was like hi and it kept 
going and then later on that night 
somebody said like you know that guy you 
met you know he's single and I'm like 
who cares you I just like kind of was 
kind of dismissive of it because I 
wasn't interested in dating that's not 
what I was looking to do uh and then he 
came down to the restaurant where we 
were and talked and I was like oh he's 
kind of funny and fun and nice and but 
you know and so that's kind of how it 
happened it wasn't that that's gonna be 
my husband I'm goingon to make sure like 
it was nothing like that you know I wish 
I wish it I wish it was but I don't know 
that I think those fairy tales are 
dangerous you know I think sometimes you 
just don't know what's going to happen 
and that's why I've always had that 
advice when friends say like um single I 
can't I'm never going to meet anybody 
but you know you could meet anybody 
literally we we literally met in front 
of an elevator Bank like that's the most 
boring story ever and so I um I do think 
you could meet somebody anywhere so 
you've got to let people know that 
you're single you've got to let people 
know together you've got to not be 
afraid to go to a dinner go to a drink 
go to even if you think a person is not 
anywhere right for you I think that 
that's super important because I think 
that who knows who that person knows 
like I just that's how I think the world 
works works you know I really I really 
do no it's the opposite of boring tamson 
it's like it's what everybody dreams of 
is you're standing in front of an 
elevator and oh my God that's Dear 
Future Husband right there so that's a 
great story and it's amazing that you 
had a really good sense about a good 
human being and you were open to him 
talking to you in the restaurant versus 
being guarded and kind like wow this is 
kind of a cool person so and you had had 
a good six years to kind of date 
yourself get solid footing so it sounds 
like you were sort of ready maybe you 
didn't know it yeah were so yeah I think 
so I you know I think i' spent enough 
time with myself get bored with myself 
and um just to really understand though 
what would and wouldn't work and I think 
that he had to so that was nice it was 
it's nice going into it like um without 
a list of rules like nobody came into it 
with these rules and I and I also think 
at this time in life there's there's a 
number other pressures that are added on 
but pressures that are taken off you 
know like we were you know having 
children wasn't a a discussion like we 
both knew where we stood on that he 
already had children I I you know wasn't 
in a place to have children um and so 
that discussion you know sometimes that 
can be part of it you know Financial 
conversations we're both very 
independent with that so there's certain 
pressures I think that are taken off 
depending on where you are but then the 
ones that come on or aging parents like 
what we're both doing as we get older 
we're both in our second wave of life 
you know so I think that it's a um a bit 
of a give and take and but I I 
really I really am hopeful for a lot of 
people that they um you know don't get 
discouraged because they're on like one 
or two or three bad dates or they're 
online and everybody is like awful or 
not for them or leading them the wrong 
way I hope that they will you know 
continue to get out there to give give 
themselves a chance because I think that 
that's really important like these 
relationships are what we're all 
relationships are really what we're here 
for yeah exactly and I just want to 
acknowledge what you said I mean it's it 
sounds like everything you knew kind of 
moved away it was like an earthquake 
rolled through your life right and you 
built yourself back up again slowly you 
were resilient you had a job that was 
wobbly then you got to be really really 
solid in your job which is how I met 
tamson for those of you who don't know 
probably for the last year and a half 
maybe two I've been doing segments with 
her on Pix 11 in New York and we would 
basically do every single month and I 
always thought to myself I really like 
her I hope that somehow you know the 
universe would have it that we would be 
friends offline and here we are so this 
is such a such a gift that you're giving 
me but for you listeners thank you you 
might be sitting there in your car or 
just thinking oh my God wo is me and 
look at this and this happened to me and 
even when you see people on TV that look 
pretty and they have pretty lives just 
know that at the end of the day 
everybody has the muck that they weigh 
through and they have to be just like 
you and put their pants on and get back 
up and try again and how does it feel to 
be remarried now 
um you know it is pretty amazing like 
it's just easy and I think that that's 
the that was key for me I had de I had 
years of a lot of drama and I was tired 
and I think that um it's really nice to 
not what's important to me at this stage 
of my life is 
like not to be worried about all those 
little things you know I don't come home 
to fights I don't come I don't answer a 
phone to like where are you don't you 
know it's just easy and I when I say 
walk you know walk through the Earth 
with or walk alongside of I really mean 
that like it's just very easy and nice 
and um and that was my priority my 
priority was to U be with somebody that 
was not going to everything was have to 
be drama you know everything was gonna 
to be a thing it was very very um 
critical at this stage because there's a 
lot of things I want to work on a lot of 
things he wants to work on and um 
yeah it's just easy I don't I don't know 
another word for it and and we have fun 
together and laugh together which is 
what I love and I love the word easy as 
the Smart dating listeners tamson know 
that my number one word for a good 
relationship that's going to go the 
distance is easy but easy doesn't mean 
that there's no conflict that you don't 
have speed bumps it means that you can 
deal with the ups and downs of Life 
fairly easily you're both grownups you 
can both negotiate through a conflict in 
a healthy constructive way that ideally 
gets your relationship even to a better 
place so easy I want you guys to know it 
doesn't mean there's no conflict right 
I've been married for going on be 27 
years in May 
so it's 
easy but there are moments that are hard 
but do you come together at that point 
versus splitting apart so I'm really oh 
yeah I'm so glad that you found the lid 
to your pot and well congratulations to 
you yeah it's a long time I know 
sometimes I'm like wow that's a long 
time um my brother once said to me you 
guys were so young you were kind of 
unqualified to get married which is kind 
of oh 
no 
unqualified so well now you're very 
qualified oh my gosh it's uh it's 
certainly fun it's certainly fun I've 
got a great partner as do you which 
really makes life so much better right 
it's like you can love yourself be 
stable on your own but when you have 
that and person and that's why I call it 
the lid to your pot because the pot is 
complete on its own right you can make 
pasta you can make everything in a pot 
but that lid that fits just right just 
gives you that much more versatility you 
can be the pot on your own or you can be 
lid plus pot totally totally totally 
true oh my gosh well tell us about 
the shift that you've made I'm so proud 
for you and I love women entrepreneurs 
that take the leap so I read something 
on your website that really was seismic 
for me and it started with a moment that 
you described where suddenly like all 
the lights started dimming you felt 
brain fog and you were like oh my God 
what's going on talk to us about 
that yeah um that was in 
2019 right before the pandemic like 
three four months and um and that's 
that's just kind of what happened I was 
uh in a commercial break just before we 
were getting ready to do our business 
report and uh I just like something was 
wrong and I didn't know what it was my 
heart was racing out of control and U 
one of the one of the guys in the studio 
was like okay I think you should get off 
the set and so um during the Comm break 
got off the set and like went and 
literally laid down on the bathroom 
floor not sure if I was going to get 
sick or faint or P out I just didn't 
really know 
[Music] 
um I just didn't really know what was 
happening and so I went home that night 
and I'm like what what was that like I'm 
okay now like what was that and um I 
made it appointed like make an 
appointment with my my general 
practitioner and like well ibe anxiety 
and then I made another one so I 
um I wanted do a blood pan Channel and 
found out I was in 
menopause I'm like what I'm only 49 or 
48 at the time um 40 yeah 48 at the time 
and uh I was like that's not possible 
that's just not possible just too young 
and um but I wasn't and I started to 
learn more about what that was and a lot 
of the things that were causing the 
problem my brain fog not remembering 
things not being able to add live on 
television without you know having a 
script in front of me if I had a script 
in front of me every once in a while the 
words like would make no sense my body 
would like get heated up with 
nervousness because I couldn't remember 
what was going on uh like you know what 
the word was and uh I'm like oh my gosh 
like sleeping all the time gaining 
weight you know just all these things 
and so um I started sharing that a bit 
on on social and then I kept sharing it 
and I haven't stopped 
yet because I think there's a lot of 
people that need to hear it and there's 
always going to be women going through 
it and by the year you know 20 25 2030 
now there's going to be a billion women 
globally that are going through this 
transition in life and the fact that I 
was a journalist for 30 years and never 
said the word is doesn't even make sense 
oh my gosh and Tam we have some catching 
up to do we totally do and you guys 
she's so incredibly humble if you go to 
her Instagram or her social media she 
has like a bajil ion followers a 
bajillion likes because her content is 
so good really talking about menopause 
and I love your makeup tips and you talk 
about health and wellness so this moment 
and starting to speak about it and you 
were speaking about it in such a lovely 
way that you built this following how 
did that impact I'm guessing that's what 
led you to say well if all these people 
want to hear what I have to say on this 
maybe I can say more about it on a daily 
basis and as part of my yeah yeah yeah 
it's funny I um I had started having 
this conversation with my with my 
employers there like a a year plus 
before because I was just kind of 
getting to a place where I 
really um wanted to do other kinds of 
Storytelling but I didn't really know 
what that would looked like 
and um and then this you know I didn't 
set out planning this just this is like 
I think that's what this community is 
all about like they are it's that's why 
it's so it's so neat to me coming from 
traditional media that it's so 
interactive you know and um and I think 
that like I learn so much from them 
every day and I hope that like they 
learn from me but I I think um you know 
I started in part before trying to 
figure out kind of what was next from 
what what my purpose what's my next 
purpose because I feel like I fulfilled 
that other 
purpose and was always grateful for it 
but wanted to do another kind of 
Storytelling and then this started to 
happen like last year and um and then it 
just kept happening and so yeah so i i t 
they they were very aware of everything 
but I I gave my notice um a few months 
before and then we made the announcement 
public um a few months after that like 
they were very good about being great 
Partners in this whole thing um 
but yeah i g i then I left about almost 
three months ago so it's it's kind of 
surreal at the same time it was November 
11th so it's coming up on three months 
which is amazing to me the first and 
it's still fluid like where it's all all 
going I know it's the first 90 
days that's a well tell us what it is 
tell us what it is and how we can like 
tell us all the things oh uh well you 
know do still a lot of digital content 
I'm um I have a book that's coming out 
um by hasette that's going to be 
published in 2025 so excited about that 
amazing thank you it's all about kind of 
like this next age and um of our lives 
and then um I have yeah I'm working with 
a couple different brands right now to 
figure out what you know what that looks 
like and have a podcast that'll be 
launching in the next few months so I'm 
excited I'm excited and I'm just trying 
to um not put that pressure on myself 
like it's got to be done here in here 
here and even though that's scary it's 
that's the only way I can do it right 
now so you know I had to figure out what 
I wanted to do to kind of reinvent that 
wheel a little bit and so that's where 
we are right now yeah it's kind of 
exciting this is your new this is like 
the purpose for the second half this is 
like your next ACT yeah yeah yeah I'm 
excited about it are you excited and 
what would you oh my gosh it's it's 
fantastic and there's so many people 
that are listening to this that have 
that little voice inside of them that 
there's this little flicker of you know 
what I really have a gift and I should 
be doing X or Y or Z and sometimes we 
snuff that out because we feel like we 
fail or no one will support us or we 
have all these bills to pay and how am I 
going to get my kids through school 
maybe I'm a single mom what advice would 
you give to someone who feels what you 
did like there's something in me that 
like this unfulfilled purpose do you 
have any gems that you can drop on 
somebody yeah I don't know if they're 
gems I just know that that's what what 
worked for me like you know it took time 
like I said I talked to them over a year 
before so I really was trying to work up 
to that it wasn't like a some people are 
like you just left I said no it was like 
13 months and so I just think was really 
important to beep prepared um I don't 
know that I have all the answers even 
today is exactly what everything is 
going to perfectly look like but I just 
knew that it was really important for me 
to serve that part of myself and to 
serve the community that I think is you 
know talking back to me um I think 
you've got to be prepared I think you've 
got to have a good Network around you I 
think that's been critical for me to 
have I think a good support group and 
you we say that like what does that look 
like but it doesn't have to be your best 
friend but it can be people that you can 
reach out to for help if you need 
something like there's a lot of 
questions I have about websites or 
photography or brand whatever I I don't 
I don't know or or Med medical I don't 
know everything you know and I have to 
reach out like I have this network of 
doctors now that I'm able to reach out 
and go like help I don't know what this 
is or can you do an interview with me um 
so I think that's important to establish 
that part and I I think it's important 
to know that like this is your someday 
so if you're still if you're like 
Someday I'm definitely going to whatever 
whatever whatever like this is is kind 
of this is for someday that's how I 
looked at it and I was like if I'm not 
doing it now when am I doing it and if 
I'm waiting three years five years six 
years happen and so that was really 
important um and I had to keep some 
things in mind like how how is how am I 
replacing my income or how am I starting 
to replace my income where can I you 
know get rid of other things that don't 
make sense um what can I do in those 
hours that I wouldn't be at work that I 
can do now to you know you know move the 
business forward or move the you know 
Financial needle forward those were all 
things that I had to talk to myself 
about and try to keep my blinders on as 
much as possible so I wasn't in this 
race against everybody else it was just 
against myself that's the best race 
right just against you yeah keeps that 
keeps you studied um for sure wow and 
what can what can the smart daters here 
do to support you in your new 
Venture oh gosh I don't know just tell 
me what you want tell me what you need 
tell me if you want if you like the 
conversations we're talking about listen 
to 
you oh my I think that's important I 
think it's 
important right yes they but if you want 
me on a tamson Fidel on all the 
platforms that's where I that's where I 
hang out oh my gosh and give us um so do 
you 
have a good makeup tip you do so many 
great makeup tutorials like oh um um 
gosh I'm trying to think of my makeup 
tips you know I'm wearing less now 
because of TV today's not indicative of 
this because I had a shoot earlier today 
but I I have um two things that I 
focused on now like I realize that I am 
um using these eyelash curlers that I've 
always hated forever but I feel like if 
I'm trying to look a little awake I just 
do the curlers curlers mascara mascara 
curler curler again even though it's a 
little crunchy but that helps and some 
lip gloss and I feel like I can get out 
of the house at least least with that so 
that's my like to do less stuff because 
I think that's important and I think 
with makeup just making sure you're not 
just following in all the trends because 
I don't think that the trends always do 
every like they're great for video but I 
don't necessarily know that they're 
realistic for real life because I don't 
have that amount of time and so um I 
think it's important to do what works 
for you and where you are and not be 
comparing yourself to somebody who's you 
know doing it for different 
reasons well you always look beautiful 
and you're such a Beacon for so many 
people including me I'm so grateful that 
we've met through pics and now we're 
here and that we'll do lots of fun chats 
in the future so thank you so much for 
taking the time to tell us about you and 
we're super excited for you and I know 
you're going to impart so much good 
knowledge on my listeners and me and I'm 
here for all of it so thank you again 
for being thank you thank you so much 
we'll have you back for 
sure I would love that smart haers 
remember if you're inspired by this and 
you need to make a really big leap in 
your life maybe it's a leap into 
business maybe it's a leap into love and 
you've been Heming and hawing and you've 
been listening to 130 plus episodes on 
this podcast since I started it in 
2022 I want you to know you are worth 
whatever it you think it is you might 
not be as women and men we invest in so 
many other people besides ourselves take 
a moment to say what would bring me joy 
what can help me to level up to get 
ready to take that leap into whatever 
pie piece of your life you want to go 
take that leap and my counsel to you is 
do that thing today do it next week send 
me a note tell me what you did to take 
that leap and as always listen to this 
podcast rate it share it write your 
comments we read every single one we 
love you and until next week I bid you 
ADW 
