[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find l 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to this week's podcast I am 
jumping out of my skin excited to share 
with you a super inspiring Love Story um 
of a former client and now friend Tara 
who is an attorney 
who is from Chicago and Tara welcome to 
the 
podcast thanks for having me Bella I'm 
so excited to tell my story in this 
context I've never been on a podcast 
this is exciting oh I'm so excited to 
have you and you're so beautiful and 
articulate and in love so I'm just I 
couldn't be more delighted to reconnect 
with you so set the stage here you know 
you're a badass successful professional 
and um kind of tell us where you were 
when before you came to us yeah I mean 
it's kind of a little bit of a different 
story in the sense that um I kind of 
grew up in a very traditional household 
and ended up with an arranged marriage 
my sister had one my parents had one so 
I also had one and that was in 2008 and 
it didn't work out you know were you 
excited about it were you excited about 
an arranged marriage or how did you feel 
in your body no not I mean I don't think 
I participated in the process in the 
right manner to actually make it 
effective you know my sister's marriage 
is 30 years old my parents have been 
married like 50 plus years um arranged 
marriages can work I just didn't have 
the mindset for it you know I was very 
career oriented still am actually but 
then even more so and was kind of like 
okay I'll just get married and try this 
and it was like with the wrong Minds I 
went in with the wrong mindset and um 
with all due respect for my partner at 
that time it just didn't work out and 
things like that happen um but I didn't 
date I hadn't dated and I was you know 
30 when I got married and um and when I 
actually kind of woke up from that 
situation I actually got cancer I ended 
up with tongue cancer cancer in 
2012 um which is an unusual form of 
cancer but um and I had I don't smoke 
and I barely drink so it was a little 
bit of an unusual thing kind of a shock 
to the system of course and after I did 
that I kind of had like this Epiphany 
like hey maybe I should try baining so 
from uh after the cancer treatment on I 
went on what I would call 
like about 
45 uh 
First Dates okay I actually I had I had 
a relationship with a nice man he was a 
nice man and um we had fun we went to 
like you know uh laala paloa and we did 
all this kind of stuff but you know he 
started losing interest and and I and I 
didn't get the signs I really was like 
kind of clueless about the whole 
process and I went into it then it 
didn't work out you know relationships 
don't work out you kind of have to move 
on but I was struggling with the idea of 
dating and not understanding signals you 
know and that's when at that time this 
was around January January of 2016 a 
friend of mine whom I think I met um at 
Eve of the eve which is a party at Union 
Station love that it's like a really 
fancy party and she and I went to it and 
and she's you know I was kind of telling 
her about my dating woes and she was 
telling me about hers and then she was 
like you may want to 
consider uh contacting my friend Bella 
Gandhi and I was like okay she's got a 
cool name like I've never heard bellaa 
and like a Gandhi put together so I was 
like okay I'm gonna give it a shot why 
not why not so I think I emailed you 
maybe in January of 
2016 and you had an initial phone call 
interview kind of meeting and then you 
connected me with an in-person meeting 
with Lindsay and um Lindsay is like a 
rock star so she came in and I and 
honestly what compelled me to the Smart 
dating Academy was Bella your story 
about how you had found love and how you 
know how you wanted to spread that love 
to others you know that that seemed like 
such a magnanimous gesture even if it 
was your job I think you had like a 
calling some sort of you know and maybe 
like my own calling to become an 
attorney it it resonated to me like it 
resonated that someone was doing this 
not only you know as her job but like as 
a passion like as something that she 
wanted to do and then Lindsay had that 
same equivalent 
passion and you know she gave me like a 
packet of materials it was like a hard 
copy I might have it somewhere I don't 
know I'm moving right now so I'm sure 
it's in some weird packet uh maybe it's 
in my bi cabinet because I I kept 
records of every person I dated and did 
all kinds of crazy stuff like that but 
Lindsay actually sat down with me and 
went through what my past was yeah and 
how the dating situation was and talked 
about this relationship that I had 
previously had and she gave me a clue 
that maybe I was wasn't really good at 
recognizing signs you know like people 
that were supposed to like if they 
contact you only once a week maybe 
they're not interested or they're 
contacting seven to eight other people 
and at that time I was on every app in 
the world right Bella like at that time 
there was like Tinder you know 
match uh okay Cupid the Bumble had come 
out hinge the whole Plenty of Fish like 
coffee meets Bagel like literally 
everyone and and they were all like some 
of them were on Shark Tank you know 
trying to like Hawk their 
services and you know the kind of you're 
doing this dating thing you're swiping 
right you're swiping left you're trying 
to figure it out and um ultimately what 
I found most helpful was kind of like 
here are some like tips tis on what you 
recognize as bad 
responses um Lindsay would actually go 
through some like ideas of what are bad 
responses and then I was like oh my god 
I've been like responding to these 
terrible 
people you're like I just didn't know 
and this is the thing Tara to your point 
you grew up in a conservative family 
there are other people that grow up in 
Liberal families but at the end of the 
day who is taught how to date 
nobody is taught how to do this at any 
age and you were smart enough to listen 
to our common friend Bonita's advice to 
come in and you were proactive and you 
wanted to learn how to do this and learn 
a process and so when you came in 
Lindsay started to teach you the process 
and I know because I've heard this so 
many times it's like a light bulb goes 
on like oh my gosh I didn't know that 
was red flag or maybe I'm red flagging 
Myself by saying these things right and 
yeah yeah like some of the things you 
know kind of like a what was interesting 
is Lindsay also went through like hey 
how are you responding to these 
people and you know am I showing a kind 
of this coldness or am I ghosting people 
and kind of thinking through that 
process was super helpful and I I think 
I am generally a proactive person but I 
didn't think I needed in the dating spy 
you know I was like hey I'm you know you 
contact your doctor when you need help 
you contact your like dentist when you 
have a toothache it didn't even occur to 
me that I needed to talk to like a 
relationship consultant you know and I 
think it was it was a light bulb like it 
was kind of like like you know Thomas 
Edison was so excited when you know I I 
decided to contact Smart dating account 
But ultimately you know what happened 
after the fact and it it still took time 
you know I've been married for five 
years but to meet my husband after I 
started with Smart dating Academy it 
took about year and a half you know and 
and I got and I was working with you 
guys and I I I don't even recall what I 
paid it was a long time ago so hope 
hopefully you get paid more best 
investment you ever made right oh for 
sure you know for 
sure but ultimately when I met Paris and 
I met him on a Indian app called uh 
dill and Dill is like sort of for 
Indians but there's other people on it 
you know people that are just into 
Indian ladies or what or Indian men I 
don't but I I uh I I clicked on uh his 
profile and you know I I I joke around 
with him that he kind of fooled me 
because he was wearing like he was 
wearing a really nice toxin one picture 
with a pink tie and then he had another 
picture where he was laughing with his 
nieces and um another picture where he 
had his work you know work profile or 
whatever and so I thought he was going 
to be a really funny guy so like I was 
like oh yeah this guy's going to be 
hilarious let's let's do this and I 
thought he was cute I thought he was 
cute um not a conventional cute person 
like most people would be like he's not 
like an Adonis but he was cute to me 
like I thought he cute 
that's um and he's bald like that that's 
my thing I think I I like bald men but 
anyway so I clicked on his link I 
clicked I swiped right on Paris and that 
was August 31st 
2017 y a long time ago and um and then 
we he he had also swiped right on me and 
somehow like during Labor Day 
weekend we had our initial like text 
conversations on the app and Paris was 
like what did you do it was kind of a 
boring conversation right you're like 
what did you do this weekend and what 
are you doing what are you doing this 
weekend and uh we were very very 
different people like uh my answer was I 
did 35 things um I went on a boat ride 
and then I did a picnic and then I went 
and met my parents and then I had dinner 
at their house and then I went to a 
concert you know it was it was summer it 
was you 
know 2016 I was like a single lady 37 38 
years old you know like just doing my 
thing you know 39 whatever and um 
ultimately what happened was I met harus 
by the app and this boring conversation 
started like this back and forth texting 
but what was different about him in 
comparison to the other men that I had 
met through these other websites or you 
know apps and whatever was he paid 
attention he actually concentrated on me 
he asked me questions uh we weeded out 
like these things that you know are 
normally no no you don't like talk 
politics you don't talk you know yeah 
for the most part you don't talk about 
politics but like this was post like the 
Trump election and like you know I I had 
to weed out like hey you know is this is 
this going to be a problem right and um 
stuff like that you know we we discussed 
whether we wanted children we we talked 
a lot and then we ultimately met and 
this is kind of it's a little bit of a a 
little bit of crazy story but I got to 
tell it tell it tell it girl yeah so uh 
he was in India he was like doing the 
last rights for his father who had 
passed away in 2015 and he went in 2017 
to do it he couldn't do it before that 
and I was in Hawaii and we were texting 
and talking all the time and then I got 
back from the trip and I was like you 
know this is really strange I've talked 
to this man for like two months when are 
we going to physically meet you know 
he's not making a move and I don't 
understand what's going on so I went to 
with the same friend Bonita we went to 
like this uh this like a Hawaiian luau 
party that a friend of 
ours was like hosting so we go to this 
party and there's like this uh fortune 
teller okay the psychic and I go to the 
psychic and I say you know what I've 
been talking to this guy for like three 
months or two months and he's not making 
a move and he's like I thought you were 
an attorney why don't you make the movie 
and I was like oh oh okay 
okay you know he really made a point and 
I felt like a dumbo but you know this is 
what it is like getting to the step of 
Paris itself was like a Smart dating 
Academy achievement getting to the next 
step had to be my achievement and I 
forgot and so I called Paris up he had 
just gotten back from his trip from 
India and I was like hey what are you 
doing December 7th and he's like uh I 
have nothing planned I'm like okay okay 
I'm going to fly so at that time he 
lived in Virginia he worked he works he 
worked at for the federal government he 
still works for the federal government 
and I'm a patent litigator and so I was 
like Hey I'm going to show up I'm going 
to show up at your uh home so plan it 
out so we met that December 7th and then 
from then on we started dating and we 
were inseparable and in all honesty it 
was like a tough time for work like was 
uh I was getting ready for a trial in 
December of that you know in in April of 
2018 and it ended up settling no March 
March of 2018 and we ended up going to 
trial but like even amidst this like 
crazy chaotic trial schedule he would 
make time for me and I would make time 
for him and he worked for the state 
department he didn't have a lot of time 
like he would 
drive an hour each way to get to the 
office 
and our love story started in that way 
and then ultimately we got engaged in 
July of 2018 and we got married in June 
of 
2019 and lo and behold five years later 
I'm married and you know I would say 
living the easiest life but it's just 
not true okay life is complicated 
constantly and I'm sure Bella you know 
this having been married I don't many 
more years than me um that you know 
marriage is like complicated and you 
still have to continue to work on it and 
it's an detestment to get there you know 
the process of getting there is hard but 
the process of staying there is even 
harder and 
so I think like for me like that first 
step of doing the Smart dating Academy 
was the Catapult that got me to the 
process and got me to 
recognize that Finding Love Is hard but 
keeping love is harder and then it's 
kind of all of that that ended up into 
my love story and it's still going I 
mean we're going strong five years in 
and there's been challenges throughout 
this time but you know I can always 
count on him and I think that finding 
the right person it's it's worth the 
shot it's worth giving a consultant a 
shot it's worth contacting Smart dating 
Academy and learning how a date even if 
you're like consider yourself an old 
person um and whether you're old or 
young just do it that's my advice 
because you you never know what you're 
going to 
get oh I so appreciate that and I think 
you're right right I mean you have quite 
the background right you came in and 
it's like you had a divorce you agreed 
to an arranged marriage you sort of were 
like okay but here was my responsibility 
in it like I didn't enter it with the 
right mindset and then you get your 
divorce you get sick and you were 
incredibly resilient so many times and 
still full of Fire full of Adventure 
like what the heck I'm going to find the 
lid to my pot when so many people out 
there have those setbacks you know Steve 
Harvey used to say to me and to the 
audience remember a setback is a setup 
for your comeback 
yeah and I mean life is like God winding 
roads you know you know whether it's in 
your career or your dating life there 
are going to be challenges there's going 
to be days that you're like I don't know 
if I want to do this anymore yeah and I 
think it's picking myself up constantly 
that gets me to The Next Step you know 
you you just can't stop you got to like 
keep going you got to just move on and I 
think I that's something that's innate 
to me so not every has that you know my 
husband's not like that he's not he's 
not he doesn't pick himself up as easily 
but what I find is despite having that 
resilience naturally I still didn't have 
the skills you know and I'm I'm someone 
who was teaching people like I was I I I 
I was a partner at a law firm and I was 
teaching Associates how to be better at 
their jobs but I didn't realize that I 
needed the same level of assistance 
in learning how to date and so you know 
whenever I tell people if someone asks 
me hey who should I go to I do I I you 
know 
refer them to Bella Gandhi and now Bella 
you're on like Good Morning America and 
doing you know crazy American things you 
know awesome things and you have a 
podcast and you really don't need me to 
refer you to anyone or make a referral 
but I still think it's worth it 
and it's because like if your goal is to 
find love you got to work on yourself 
you have to start with yourself right 
like you got to love yourself but you 
also have to learn what you're doing bad 
and what you're not doing what you're 
doing 
well and that to me is what Smart dating 
Academy has given me and it all worked 
out so there you go right it it all does 
work out and you're right and I love 
that you said this right we think 
happily ever after right it's not a 
fairy tale right marriage is work and 
it's work and it doesn't mean it's soul 
sucking work and you're you know being 
abused necessarily I'm saying marriage 
is work you have to you know the grass 
is green when you water it right and so 
you have to water the grass often all 
the time especially in the dark of 
winter right and so and like you're 
saying you tend to be the person that 
can elevate your husband more he needs a 
hand maybe more than you do you're more 
resilient and I'm sure that there are 
things that weren't identical he doesn't 
match you in every standpoint 
Personality yeah I mean he's an 
introvert I'm an extrovert there are 
very there's lots of differences like 
you know uh he he prefers like when we 
initially talked and 
he asked me what I did that weekend that 
Labor Day weekend I listed I don't know 
35 things that I had on my list and Par 
said I watch football and made like 
nachos 
yeah like he he's more of a simple 
person but like on the flip side he's 
really good at like Financial like 
predictions he's really good at 
kind of budgeting he has other skills 
that I just don't have and to me like we 
match because we compliment each other 
and we have enough in common that we're 
not boring each other we watch Big Big 
Bang Theory like every day and we you 
know we do Legos together sometimes like 
we have like nerdy kind of things that 
we do together um but there's also 
differences and you know years uh later 
I I I decided to like run to be the 
president elect of an organization the 
South Asian bar association of North 
America yeah and Paris encouraged me to 
do it like he had no idea the amount of 
work it was going to take and I told him 
it was going to take an enormous amount 
of work and he did quite get it but he 
really encouraged me and then like then 
he kind of begrudged me like the whole 
two years that I was involved but he 
also helped me a lot and that's where he 
offers kind of a different perspective 
and like I value who he is and he values 
who I am but in order to make that 
happen we've had to make compromises in 
life life like marriage isn't easy you 
are right um and especially when you 
have two older people that get together 
I was like 41 when I got married and he 
was 39 because you know I slightly 
robbed the Cradle but 
but um we were already set in our ways 
so he had his life I had my life and 
melding those lives took some commitment 
and I think that's where he and I get 
together and we we argue and we like 
resolve and we talk through things I 
mean I've had two floods in one year in 
this new house that we bought like you 
know we've my you know we had a family 
death like there's been issues in terms 
of like work issues and other things and 
we are also trying to adopt we've had a 
lot going on in order to get through all 
that and in order to find the right 
partner like finding the right partner 
and then getting the steps together to 
kind of walk in life together I think 
that is a challenge but it's worth the 
challenge you know I don't think I want 
to live life without my husband any 
you know like this he's he's everything 
to me um and I was at an event like I 
was in Toronto for like this South Asian 
Bar Association now I'm a past president 
and I could just hang out and I was 
talking to the event planner who I've 
used in AC events and they were like do 
you realize how lucky you are that your 
husband loves you this much and I was 
like yes that I I know because not 
everybody gets that um they may get 
close to that but I really have like 
this man who would devote everything to 
me like he he just loves me like when I 
was this organization's president he 
like was like oh I got to look good too 
and it took him more time to prep for 
like the events than me so that was kind 
of hilarious because he just was like I 
got to make you look good and I was like 
I don't think anyone really cares what 
you look like but it's fine they don't 
even care what I look like but it's okay 
my trophy husband that's fine yeah I 
mean and he was he was he he stood by me 
and he constantly stands by me and I 
stand by him too and part of it is is 
like we have like for all our 
differences we also have a lot of 
commonalities we both care about our 
families a lot you know he he has a 
widowed mom you know like it was 
important to me that I connect with his 
mom and she speaks a different language 
even within the Indian context we're 
from different parts of India 
originally and my parents are fluent in 
English and she's she speaks English but 
just not as fluently as my parents you 
know and so to a certain extent like I I 
instantly connected with his family he 
instantly connected with mine and that 
was something super 
important and 
so those kinds of commonalities kind of 
overcame our 
differences so 
yes I like to go out a lot or I like to 
hang out with my girlfriends a lot and 
he doesn't he doesn't he doesn't want to 
hang out with people all the time and 
for him like sometimes just quiet time 
is more 
important so that can be challenging 
when you're like an extrovert and you're 
like all the time and you need to 
puncture every sentence with like 
something but um all those differences 
don't matter at least for me 
if the commonalities are enough to like 
connect all of us and keep our hearts 
alive so that's what he does for me and 
if you asked him he'd say I do the same 
for him or he better at least say that I 
love after five years of 
marriage he's an elevated person for you 
do you remember when Lindsay and I took 
you through that exercise and figuring 
out who are the people in your life that 
make really really happy right we focus 
on those qualities then what are the red 
flags okay we're these are people that 
are going to get chucked out if they're 
if they're responding with red flags 
like you said most people there's no 
process so we and then it's can the 
attraction build with this person and 
then it's navigating to do we want the 
same thing out of this relationship are 
we aligned on the big things and then 
All the Small Things become negotiable 
you're an extrovert he's an introvert 
you like the city he likes the suburbs 
you like rock he likes country all those 
things become okay it doesn't matter 
what do you want to do today tomorrow I 
want to do this and all of that but you 
put the commitment to each other first 
and foremost and you elevate each other 
I agree like part of it is is you know I 
still have some single friends you know 
I'm 46 so my friends are around 46 maybe 
45 44 47 like you know in that area and 
um it's harder to find someone when 
you're older and you don't have the 
skills to do it um but I do think like 
one thing that's a difference is some of 
them wouldn't have picked Paris they 
wouldn't have given him a chance they 
wouldn't have like really swiped right 
and part of it is is like recognizing in 
yourself 
what where you are 
deficient and trying to find someone 
that might Shore up those 
deficiencies and that's who Paris is for 
me like he Shores up some deficiencies I 
have in life and you know it's it's it's 
been a hell of a ride uh we post all the 
time this roller coaster of life there's 
only one person that I would want to be 
riding with and it's him and he does the 
same he you know like he you know did I 
I I heard the song about who's your ride 
or die like he's my ride or die you know 
like he's the guy um and I am genuinely 
lucky to have found him and I think you 
and Lindsay should get at least 20 to 
30% Credit in getting this to happen 
because if I hadn't really learned the 
process 
I wouldn't have been open to this man 
who came into my life so that to me is 
like a lesson in like what you need to 
do to find love is to be open and kind 
of recognize that there's skills that 
you need to build and just like you go 
to school to like you know become a 
doctor and become a dentist and like you 
need to get those skills and so that to 
me is what Smart dating Academy has 
given me so I'm very very 
grateful and you know I hope Bella that 
you uh appreciate that you've helped so 
many people and um I hope you keep 
helping people and you know because you 
have this beautiful love story and I 
love talking about your husband and your 
beautiful children and know it's not 
always easy but you always come out and 
talk about it and to me that's important 
to keep telling people that there's hope 
you know I mean not everybody can get 
married at 41 and stay married till 46 
you know I had one unsuccessful marriage 
I wasn't going to do it again unless it 
was worth it but part of it was finding 
the right person I don't think I would 
have done it I honestly don't without 
like this assistance so I'm I'm very 
grateful I'm so grateful for you and for 
you sharing this beautiful story and for 
my childhood friend Bonita and we did 
sleepovers together and I'm so glad that 
she uh she was AR yenta and she 
matchmade us and I'm so happy to hear 
that you wouldn't want to do the roller 
coaster of life with anybody except for 
par so that like brings a tear to my eye 
I love love and love helping people and 
thank you for so genuinely and 
generously sharing your stories uh 
because it's so inspiring I think so 
many of us so many listeners regardless 
of what age you are can relate to God I 
just don't know how to do this I'm not 
having success at this so thank you for 
sharing the little nuggets that helped 
you and um for any of you that are 
inspired or feel called to make a change 
listen to what Tara said send an email 
to us like she did right would you say 
do it yeah reach out I mean it's worth 
it it's a you know part of it is you you 
think you know what you're doing but you 
may 
not and it's worth even getting a 
refresher course like you could be 
dating like 30 years and you may not 
know that the signals that you're giving 
aren't the right signals or the signals 
that you're receiving aren't the right 
signals so I think that to me it's worth 
the 
chance especially because everybody 
wants love like who doesn't want love 
those people are 
terrible exactly exactly if you want to 
find love you got to work on it it 
doesn't come free does come free for 
free I love that well thank you again 
for being here Smart daters Share this 
podcast with somebody that needs some 
hope for the beautiful Tara story if you 
feel called to hear it again you can 
watch this segment on our YouTube 
channel so um I'm again just so grateful 
for you and for being here and if you 
need a consultation people send an email 
go to Smart dating academy.com follow us 
on Instagram do the things because all 
of the Power exists inside of you to 
change your life so do something 
positive for yourself to move yourself 
in that direction and catapult yourself 
into love so thank you and until next 
week I bid you farewell 
