people often say well do I have to be 
really good friends with this person 
what about sexual chemistry I'm like 
long term you can't do that in the 
absence of trust what is chemistry it's 
not just something like ephemeral that 
happens or doesn't happen they're 
probably the level at which it's about 
physical appearance and etc etc but a 
lot of chemistry is that right safety 
the ability to take risks the ability to 
be like playful and silly I think that 
there's I'm all for passion in a sexual 
experience but lots of long-term couples 
also rely heavily on humor and silliness 
as a gateway to erotic experiences so 
there's not any there's not like right 
wrong ways of getting into an erotic 
moment with a partner in over 20 30 
years as you're saying couples need to 
have lots of ways of transitioning from 
doing dishes side by side to you know 
getting in bed together or you know 
parenting to becoming lovers again and 
there needs to be lots of ways of doing 
that and that element of friendship is 
vital because it creates the safety and 
the safety is just yeah you can't go 
anywhere without it 
