I had a relationship with a nice man he 
started losing interest and I didn't get 
the signs I really was like kind of 
clueless about the whole process and 
then it didn't work out a friend of mine 
she was like you may want to consider 
contacting my friend Bella Bandy and 
honestly what compelled me to the Smart 
dating Academy was Bella your story 
about how you had found love and how you 
know how you wanted to spread that love 
to others and then Lindsay had that same 
equivalent passion but at the end of the 
day who is taught how to date nobody is 
taught how to do this and you were smart 
enough to listen to our common friend 
Bonita's advice to come in and you were 
proactive and you wanted to learn how to 
do this and learn a process I've heard 
this so many times it's like a light 
bulb goes on like oh my gosh I didn't 
know that was a red flag or maybe I'm 
red flagging Myself by saying these 
things right and yeah 
