what brought you to Smart dating Academy 
I vividly remembering that moment I 
first saw you on this TV show called the 
first look but not dating anybody I was 
single I just turned 50 I was sort of 
Frozen as I was watching how you 
describe your dating service and I heard 
you speaking and then I thought oh I 
have to contact this lady I need this 
lady right at this moment this is 
exciting like how do I navigate all of 
this so really putting a process 
together that made it not overwhelming 
yeah until someone came into your inbox 
let's talk about him you're talking 
about my husband right your husband he's 
married now you just felt like he was 
different than any of the previous 
people that you had dated but in a good 
way yeah in a good way that's so true we 
made it two years and maybe just 
recently got married congratulations 
thank you 
