[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators you ask and we deliver I 
hope you've had a great week and I'm so 
excited to be here with you you guys 
love ways and who doesn't love this I 
love this ways that we can make 
ourselves feel better like in the moment 
not a year from now not two years from 
now but today and I brought someone who 
I think is amazing warm empathic and 
Carly Holden is an author actor coach 
and somatic experiencing trauma 
practitioner like that's amazing so what 
she's done is she specialized in helping 
people for the last two decades that 
have been in poor relationships develop 
better boundaries yeah overcome anxiety 
and overthinking hmm that's me and to 
develop a deeper spiritual connection 
more self-love and self-worth so that 
you dear listener can create the life 
that you dream of and that you want 
Carly welcome to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast thank you I love the way 
you said all that as it made me feel 
better 
oh good good good well let's hop right 
into this tell us 
um tell us about you how you started 
doing what you're doing and I think your 
story is very relatable and you know 
kind of um I I hand the mic to you okay 
yeah thank you for having me I'm excited 
so when I graduated from Berkeley with I 
studied psychology and I just I have 
this aha moment where I was like God 
Universe what do I do with my life now I 
feel like I I wasn't I didn't know how 
to think past college and I had this 
voice say help people through the media 
I was like okay what's media 
and I literally this was 
97.98 and I googled or I know I did 
Google sorry Google was just coming out 
4-1-1 remember information oh my God and 
I just I I became an intern at a uh NBC 
long story short took me to Hollywood 
working in production acting all things 
I did Growing Up and next thing I knew 
uh successful directors and actors and 
producers were saying to me would you 
please come to my house and teach me how 
to be happy because I grew up with NLP 
meditation yoga so I had a lot of tools 
that I was living and exuded this energy 
of I'm just happy because so I'm 22 and 
I'm like okay sure so I'm showing up at 
these rich and famous people's homes and 
I'm guiding them through breath and 
self-love and I'm just doing my thing 
and I'm like this is amazing you're 
being happy and you're teaching others 
how to be happy what's better than that 
well that's when I was guided that after 
a few months of being there to friend I 
became friends with Adam Sandler and Rob 
Schneider and they they asked me to hang 
out with them the day Chris Farley left 
this world 
so that moment was a pivotal moment for 
me where I said to myself I don't know 
what this is I don't know what suicide 
and darkness is I hadn't I hadn't woken 
up to my own traumas so that may lead us 
into a different direction and I just 
wanted to say denial is a big part of 
trauma not getting real and that's 
something I grew up with a lot of I 
remember my grandma my dad's mom just 
the sweetest lady everything was always 
great so we either have like when we 
first just talked the Spectrum right 
it's big stuff in your face or maybe 
it's just hidden and there's a lot of 
denial and sugar coating and not being 
real either way the nervous system 
doesn't like it the body doesn't like it 
kids when we're little we feel the 
stress our parents hide from us that was 
me and that's how I raise my kids now 
I'm always real it's important to be 
real so you separate it so they don't 
take on the stress of mom and dad that's 
one tool but we can get into that with 
parenting later uh tell me if I'm going 
too fast no what I wanted to find out so 
you were the happy person and then Adam 
Sandler and Rob Schneider called you 
Chris Farley passes and now for you 
question were you the person that you're 
referring to you were always happy were 
you in denial so let's talk a little bit 
about this and what your next steps were 
beautiful I was in denial that's me I 
was not awake to my own family childhood 
trauma patterns that were more little 
tea like you you and I were talking 
about you you know you we don't always 
know what's bothering us and so when 
when we do this work when we go into the 
body which we'll talk more about some 
tools this people will ask me how do I 
know you don't have to look for it it 
will come out naturally like in a dream 
it will reveal itself and you'll be like 
I never knew that really bothered me oh 
wow and we honor every part of our 
life's experience through not just our 
mind we get out of the head and into the 
body and we can talk some tools on how 
to do that later oh my gosh okay so tell 
us what happened then so you're with 
these guys what's going on like how does 
that lead you to where you're doing this 
work now okay so that's a that's a lot 
and I did write a book so if people want 
more details because that's another 
story it's very embarrassing it's very 
vulnerable and I Heard a Voice a decade 
ago say you have to write this book I 
said oh gosh no I will never say all 
that that's that's like standing naked 
in front of a mountain and it said oh no 
no this is my internal spiritual voice 
no you will because you'll help many 
many people and I said okay done I'll do 
it so I would say if we cut forward 20 
years 
uh my own dysfunctional relationship 
started to reveal their pattern to me 
until I got hit so hard I don't know if 
I want to give that away because it's a 
big part of the book I got hit so hard 
that I said Thank You universe so the 
Big T hit me 
the big big team not physical hit but 
yeah yes both somebody hit you yes 
relationship abusive relationship amen 
and I just want to add 
not to get tuned is abusive in a 
different way I was with somebody 
that it wasn't just like oh I'm an 
abuser sorry I don't know if we 
can swear on here okay it was I'm not 
well you need to stay away from me and I 
wouldn't because I Had No Boundaries 
because that's how I grew up there there 
was a lack of boundaries and so that's 
what the universe wanted to wake me up 
to so this person was like something's 
wrong with me you need to stay away from 
me and I wouldn't so this person who had 
two parts to them like a schizophrenic 
or split personality got me into therapy 
to learn my role of why I was putting up 
with his 
so it's a it's a heartbreaking story 
because it's not just a Jerk It's 
somebody saying I'm suffering help me 
out of here and my codependence and lack 
of boundaries wasn't helping so I really 
go into how I woke up to owning my part 
if you looked at Carlene who was always 
like you said the happy girl and then to 
go wait what is my role if all these men 
I've attracted they they don't look good 
oh they're the bad guy no no no own your 
part so that's a big tool I owned my 
part what is this about me that's 
attracting relationships like this and 
putting up with so much and while I'm 
accepting this exactly boom that's what 
I woke up to and that's when I became a 
trauma practitioner doing Peter Levine's 
three-year training to unwind the 
nervous system 
and uh I woke up to a lot that I wasn't 
aware of so it's there oh it always 
takes two and I think that's a really 
good tool to help people with because a 
lot of people feel like I haven't done 
anything wrong why is this person being 
such a jerk 
because this isn't it's not about right 
or wrong it's about I would say that's a 
great tool for people to use right away 
what am I learning from this situation 
when something not good happens whether 
or not it's dating or a relationship 
what is this showing me what is this 
about me 
I love that question 
what is the lesson about me right and so 
you were with somebody who basically had 
Good Side Bad Side a little chuckle hide 
the good hymn was good but the bad hymn 
was really bad and one good hymn came to 
said you got to get out of this like bad 
me is not good for you and why are you 
putting up with this and that was your 
Awakening 
um amen perfectly said yep okay got it 
got it got it and and so you found out 
that this lack of boundaries Little T 
the trauma that you had made you accept 
everybody say yes to all things be happy 
tolerate all of this abuse and 
dysfunction and say thank you sir can I 
have another exactly exactly and I know 
a lot of people can relate to this 
because these are the people I help and 
I just wanted to add to your point that 
this is such a good tool I wish somebody 
would have told me the longer we put up 
with it the more trauma we're 
accumulating in our body and mind 
say that again for the people in the 
back so the longer we put up with any 
dysfunctional situation whether or not 
it's dating a relationship a friendship 
a family member the longer it takes to 
unwind all the adrenaline we keep 
building in the body and I'll use an 
analogy if that's confusing for people 
that may not know about adrenaline and 
the nervous system yet if you want to 
get healthy and let's say lose 100 
pounds you have to eat well and move 
your body for quite a few days if you 
don't move and you eat garbage what are 
you doing you're accumulating more 
weight more toxins so won't it take 
longer to get that out yeah same with 
our emotions and how we let ourselves be 
treated and I didn't know that so many 
years 
I got to spend many years unwinding but 
it was be and not but and it was a 
beautiful process I would never take 
back and I know it deepened my cup to 
make me better for others because I 
remember the first psychologist I worked 
with in Hollywood my thought was 
okay you're trained you got your PhD you 
got your tools you sound amazing but 
have you been through it have you been 
through heartbreak and 
how do you know personally and I don't 
even think they could answer because 
they can't really talk about themselves 
I'm not sure but I am very open I talk 
about myself because 
how is somebody else going to change if 
they they feel better people love to 
change when they hear how somebody else 
did 
100 and and just so you guys dear 
listener you know that I know we were 
talking about Carly being you know the 
happiness Guru and teaching Hollywood 
celebrities how to be happy but 
something that you wrote you know really 
stuck with me and I think it's very 
relatable that you were also having you 
know massive symptoms of anxiety panic 
attacks hallucinations Suicidal Thoughts 
unhealthy relationships you had all of 
these things so you were happy on the 
outside but tormented on the inside and 
didn't even know it until you were 
cracked open yes to clarify well said 
however the first 30 my first 30 years I 
didn't know those symptoms they happened 
when I got triggered in my mid-30s so I 
really was happy because that's what I 
was raised with I didn't know what was 
bubbling underneath 
until I got hit hard and then so to keep 
it simple all that adrenaline I was 
talking about that gets built up it can 
lay dormant this is very confusing about 
trauma that I discovered and found in a 
book when I first got on this path like 
why all of a sudden now so I when I was 
the happiness girl I didn't have that 
anxiety and tormenting thoughts that was 
later 
that's when so stuff can happen to us 
and it and it gets pushed down we don't 
know it's there 
then I 
well there's quite a few things that 
happened so I'll just keep it simple I 
got triggered and that's when it all 
came out because it was time for me to 
deal with it because as we get older we 
can we can only hold it together for so 
long or it's not in our awareness so for 
me that was my trauma pattern I wasn't 
aware of it so when I got triggered it 
was shocking to me wait I was always 
happy what is this why am I 
hallucinating why am I having these dark 
thoughts now remember though I had taken 
a lot of violence and manipulation and 
this was like my fourth serious abusive 
relationship so it all added up that's 
what I mean by the longer the more you 
take Boom at some point you're going to 
get hit does that make sense so there I 
didn't always have those symptoms they 
were later 
okay and so this is after a series of 
very abusive and violent relationships 
so the trauma continued you were digging 
those neural Pathways even deeper with 
every relationship you went back for 
another so at this point by the time you 
were in your mid-30s there you were 
easily triggerable because you had been 
through so much bad stuff yes it was 
time nobody we would wish on nobody 
right and and some just to clarify the 
first three relationships you couldn't 
really tell that's another big part of 
trauma it's more manipulative or what we 
talk about narcissism these days it's 
hard to see it was that last one that 
got really big where I saw a sick person 
get violent with himself and then me 
that woke me up to needing to heal if 
that makes sense and I'm sure a lot of 
people can relate to this those patterns 
of that we need to heal and that's one 
of the tools I love working with is what 
is this pattern Within Me me that I need 
to heal so I don't attract this again 
because right when we're dating we don't 
that was my motivation I don't want to 
go through this again 
100 it's like you hit rock bottom at a 
certain point you're like God the common 
denominator in all of these messes is me 
what am I doing and what do I need to do 
so so at this point you not only take 
responsibility look in the mirror and 
say the common denominator is me but you 
go out and you start to learn not only 
to help yourself but to help others and 
and I think that so many of the most 
beautiful Solutions in the world are 
born by us trying to solve our own 
problems so kudos to you for you know 
building a bridge over that really 
painful Chasm and I'm so glad you're 
here because you understand so many of 
the things that our clients and our 
audience have gone through so tell us 
you know 
um what is trauma what is considered we 
talk about Little T trauma we talk about 
Big T trauma right you and I were just 
sharing before the you know it's like my 
daughter has anxiety right now is that 
little T trauma she comes from a very 
healthy home with two parents that love 
her a lot and in therapy she's like I 
have a great family like I like my head 
just spins right so that what is trauma 
my teacher Peter Levine says it 
perfectly I think you're going to like 
this trauma is not the event it's how we 
respond 
okay I love that 
so bullying okay Robin Williams is 
coming to mind and the more research I 
did on him the more here's my two cents 
then I think this could be applicable to 
people he was bullied a lot when he was 
in elementary school 
bullying doesn't feel good I remember my 
daughter coming home from third grade 
and boom the bully starting and so we 
started to release that adrenaline 
immediately some if I didn't know these 
tools I might be like okay no big deal 
don't take it personally and we move on 
no no no trauma is the nervous system 
goes up this mountain 
and if it doesn't come down to feel safe 
we get stuck at the top and this is 
where all those symptoms are the anxiety 
the so so again let's say it again 
trauma's not the event 
it's how we respond 
and what we typically do without these 
tools like you're saying we're it's like 
in suspended animation yeah 
so if your mother-in-law says something 
little something little let's pick you 
like your mother-in-law I'm just picking 
an example but she keeps saying 
something you don't like and you don't 
say anything boom your body 
it's it's revving up because a natural 
response if we get out of the frontal 
lobe is I don't like that don't talk 
like that but do we always say that no 
we play Mr Mrs nice guy and so I really 
love 
I know we talked about giving people 
tools right away I love working with the 
tools of what's your truth and your 
throat Center our centers are so 
powerful they're not just these energy 
centers chakras I mean they are I like 
to me I feel like I'm the trauma Made 
Simple girl I like to make things 
practical we speak from our heart which 
moves through our throat so all the 
times in life people say things that we 
don't like were we able to say no that 
didn't feel good no thank you or do we 
hold it in and that's when the 
adrenaline builds and we get angry we 
get anxiety we get dysregulated so we 
trauma is being out of Regulation 
deregulated so we want to come in so up 
the mountain some I'm getting stimulated 
I don't like this I get stuck 
that's where that's where I work with 
people to come down to safety what did I 
not get to do or say what are my 
patterns I'm healing and then this 
release happens and the anxiety goes 
away okay and I love that because let's 
take the example of the Mother-in-law 
right at a certain point 
you 
you may just feel like oh gosh this 
isn't a battle you know they always say 
pick your battles right don't let the 
Small Things Great on you but I think 
the Small Things cumulatively add up 
enough so let's say for example my 
mother-in-law is giving me paper cut 
after paper cut on the same thing I 
don't like what you're wearing I don't 
like how you're cooking I don't like 
this right and you're right I won't use 
my voice because I don't like conflict 
so I won't say hey that's hurtful could 
you not say that or the story I'm 
telling myself is that you're trying to 
you know be mean to me is that true 
right so I'll hold on to it so now I'm 
at the top of the mountain okay I'm 
stewing in my Jews I'm in fight or 
flight it's not healthy for me and my 
patience is gonna wear thin at some 
point where I'll probably what do I do 
now you could even be in freeze and 
that's where I get people out of freezes 
when our symptoms get really knock but 
um so what you do now let's say we are 
working together I would work on what is 
your body we'd get out of the head so 
even right now if you dropped into your 
gut 
for example let's say this is your story 
and you picture what your mother-in-law 
saying to your gut's going to start to 
get tight your heart is going to start 
to race we're going to work with 
Sensations your chest you're gonna your 
muscles are gonna start to tighten so in 
most talk therapies what I've heard uh 
they're not working with the body it's 
they're they're analyzing and going 
through the events in the mind so we're 
going to work with the body and then I'm 
going to ask your body your throat your 
heart what do you want to say and you're 
going to say it to me and then your 
body's going to feel something different 
and you're going to like it and then 
you're going to want more of that you're 
going to feel lighter you can breathe 
it's relief it's like let's keep it even 
more simple if somebody walked up to hit 
you do you just let yourself get hit or 
do you block do you move away do you say 
what are you doing 
I like to keep Simple analogies like 
that so if you just take it that's not 
going to feel good 
so when people are working on this and 
working on themselves they're asking 
themselves wait what do I really want to 
say or do and then the what is stopping 
me if if something is and it could be oh 
well you everybody's still using you for 
example well I grew up in a family where 
there's not confrontation that's like me 
you don't you don't confront you don't 
speak up like that everything's okay 
that's trauma that is true I mean my 
parents are immigrants from India and 
there's respect to elders and right and 
so there's cultural and I know my 
culture is not the only one that has 
things like that right there's family 
Dynamics where there's somebody that's 
very volatile and you can't use your 
voice or you'll be swacked across the 
room or you'll be stonewalled and given 
the freezer treatment and you'll be 
given the silent treatment so whether 
it's spoken or unspoken I think that 
these Dynamics exist in all of our homes 
absolutely so the tool people get to ask 
themselves is do I want to work through 
this and when they do what I've I 
thought I could do it all on my own what 
I learned is we can't and that's why 
I've been putting myself more out there 
in the world because we need support 
we need truth the nervous system needs 
truth and it needs support so if you 
can't go get it from your family let's 
say you and I are working together you 
get it from me you get to move your body 
you get to find your voice you get to 
say it to me I get to honor your truth I 
get to support you your body your 
nervous system loves that you come out 
of trauma 
I don't want to fast forward too much 
however then you show up around your 
family and two things happen you're a 
different person it doesn't touch you it 
bounces off you you don't care as much 
you call me and you're like I'm freaked 
out I'm like part of this family but I'm 
not it's not affecting me great or you 
have a moment like you've seen the 
movies where someone speaks up and 
you're like that was amazing you know 
when you see those scenes in the movies 
where somebody's just being bullied 
bullied and they finally say no more and 
you're like 
absolutely 
and those are both win-wins which is 
what we want and I think the reason why 
we're talking about this because that is 
what needs to be healed before you can 
attract a good partner 
So when you say that needs to be healed 
what's that the patterns of what it why 
am I attracting this because we stopped 
attracting it once we find our voice and 
find those boundaries that mother-in-law 
that bad relationship that bully guess 
what they go away 
it's so true I've been practicing this 
for 20 years it gives me goosebumps and 
I'm a perfect example of 
when I'm doing this work I'm like oh my 
gosh those people those events that I 
used to draw in all the time they don't 
come in anymore now what comes in is 
respect kindness love so don't be I 
don't want people to be hard on 
themselves it's okay we all go through 
this and you know some people don't like 
necessarily the Law of Attraction some 
love it it's it's very similar to that 
if we're resonating with so much love 
and self-respect and self-love and 
self-care which are the tools the world 
starts showing us that when we're too 
afraid to have our voice or we're taking 
care of our 
families feelings like you said 
culturally and we're just shut down and 
tired of dealing with stuff we're going 
to attract more of those people and they 
it doesn't feel good so I got to the 
place in my life where it's like I'm not 
gonna die this way and I'm not going to 
live this way so there's got to be an 
answer so now 
yoga Nanda I don't know if you've heard 
of Parma Hansa yoga Nanda he came over 
here in the 20s from India autobiography 
of a yogi so he has self-realization 
fellowships and we go and meditate there 
he says kind and firm that's my motto so 
when we're traumatized or we're 
deregulated or we're frustrated we get 
angry then we respond harshly and when 
we do this work then we can respond with 
kindness and be firm like so for an 
example ah stop you know you're yelling 
that's anger get away 
okay that might feel good but that's 
something we'd want to do more in 
session so then when people can show up 
to someone it's that's not okay feel the 
difference 
now we're kind but we're firm and that 
is something I love that is not an easy 
place to get don't beat yourself up for 
that I've worked many years on getting 
there and hey I'm not a confrontational 
person either so I still get to practice 
and every time I do and I'm kind and 
firm I feel amazing make me sweat a 
little bit but I love it 
because I don't get anxiety anymore 
anxiety means something's not resolved 
and we need to find our voice our body's 
not happy about something and then we go 
in and we dissect that we find it and we 
resolve it does that make sense yeah it 
totally does so I I was just thinking 
about a situation this morning where I 
drove my 15 year old to school and he 
was supposed to be navigating me he's 
like yeah you know there's like five 
places to turn left he's like yeah you 
gotta turn left and so I'm driving he's 
like no no right that was the wrong left 
I'm like dude you and I like my voice 
raise I'm like oh my God you're the 
Navigator why didn't you tell me you 
know and then it was like okay and we 
got to school and it was fine then I 
shot him a text later I said hey I'm 
sorry I snapped at you this morning that 
wasn't my intention and he's like you 
were I had a TV segment this morning 
he's like you were time pressed right so 
so ultimately what could I do in that 
situation to prevent snapping like is 
there a thing 
so I when you here's how we know when 
you said it just now out loud what did 
you can you drop in and fill what you 
felt in your body when you're like dude 
what did you say what were your words I 
was like because he had his friend in 
his car and he was like acting like 
super bro you know like 15 year olds 
like you just missed it and I'm like oh 
my God like 
and it was just like this okay now what 
like I have to get them to school so 
they don't get detentions get to the TV 
studio so I felt I felt just like 
off-kilter like oh my God now you're 
telling you're you're supposed to be 
doing this and you're telling me I did 
this wrong and like you're such an idiot 
and I that 
yeah stay right there fill your breath 
fill your body did you really snap and 
do anything wrong or did you have your 
voice because what I'm hearing is you 
had your voice you're like hello you're 
being a whatever and okay so that's 
using my voice feel that in your body 
right now how do you feel well I it 
sounds much better coming from you 
saying that wasn't mean I was like I and 
I didn't say I didn't scream I didn't 
yell it's like oh my God you're supposed 
to tell me where to go okay that right 
there feel it if everybody's listening 
who's a parent or in any situation that 
to me feels good I tune into people I 
feel your strength where I think the 
trauma pattern is is you apologizing 
after like it's your fault because he 
had a role too he was acting a certain 
way so the healthy boundary or the way 
you could respond instead of owning it 
completely and apologizing like it was 
all you would be yeah you took to full 
responsibility 100 so there's the trauma 
pattern I'd work on with you it's not 
all you you did nothing wrong actually 
if you would have gotten very angry 
where you're screaming and calling him 
names we would look at that you said 
your truth you could next time instead 
of apologizing say hey I'd just like to 
talk to you I noticed these behaviors 
you were having that didn't make me feel 
good 
and you weren't showing me where to go 
so that's why I said hey now feel that 
as I say that does that feel better oh 
my God so much better and so much more 
correct you're right I tend to take full 
responsibility I am the firstborn I own 
a company everything is my 
responsibility right and so you I know 
how to fix things I know and so yes okay 
you just said it I was wondering so you 
learned that somewhere growing up you 
take full responsibility because there's 
something there you want to fix from 
childhood so now as an adult 
you feel that I want to be perfect you 
but we could work on that a little bit 
more to let you not be perfect guys and 
it's happy you're in my therapy session 
with Carly who would have expected this 
this but people love this because it we 
do what we do because we want to be real 
I love being real I'm super I don't know 
how to be anything but real but then 
I'll take response I'm like oh God I'm 
really sorry for being real and that 
would be my part in this right it's like 
I use my voice but then I'll apologize 
and I do love the words I'm sorry right 
and I think somehow in our society we've 
gone so away from using those words 
where I think that they're so disarming 
and beautiful and I try I want us as as 
a culture to learn the right middle 
ground that there are a lot of times 
where it's okay to apologize and say I'm 
sorry absolutely it's out of balance 
otherwise or you say it too much like 
you 
and I'm watching my two and a half year 
old start to be like oh I saw a sigh 
mama and I'm like no no you don't need 
to say sir I'm teaching him now this is 
when you say sorry no no you don't need 
to say sorry now 
so that's something you'd want to work 
on wait did I really do something wrong 
here oh I'm sorry from the heart 
or am I trying to make everything okay 
and fix it and be a people pleaser and 
keep everybody happy no no no we don't 
want that that's what I work with people 
on too I love that I love that and 
so let's talk about all of this stuff 
that we all have inside of us including 
me who you know we all have it like how 
can we attract more love and healthy 
relationships 
well it's doing what we've been talking 
about so far it's going have you ever 
worked on yourself where you go in the 
body and you feel those Sensations no oh 
you're gonna love this it's a whole new 
world so our frontal lobe our brain 
tells us a lot it's beautiful for 
getting us on time getting to this call 
talking to each other I see you in front 
of me getting from A to B it's not good 
for overthinking our feelings and 
trusting our gut that's where we get 
into another part of our brain so your 
question tell me your question again 
sorry it was just attracting more love 
and healthy relationships into our lives 
so you ask yourself 
do I love myself enough to go within and 
feel what I need to feel and find 
anything that may be unresolved where I 
keep noticing something showing up in my 
life I don't like am I 
vulnerable or ready to get vulnerable 
and real knowing it doesn't have to be 
scary because a lot of people that come 
to me have been through very dark scary 
stuff it's not about talking about it I 
don't a lot of times I won't even know 
people's whole story I know what their 
body's telling me and we create a safe 
environment to unwind and come out of 
the trauma again whether or not it's Big 
T or Little T it's do I love myself 
enough or let's say it this way the pain 
of not having the right relationship or 
not having love let that pain be so big 
that you'll do anything to change it and 
that anything is going within and doing 
yourself first I can't attract respect 
and love and joy unless I know how to 
give it to myself first how do I do that 
I start going within and I learn what I 
need to to heal what patterns and ask 
for support and and that that's what I 
did and I love it and to this day if I 
get triggered or something comes up so 
I've been doing this work 10 15 years 
now so what used to bother me for weeks 
hours days months 
I said that wrong let me say that better 
many hours many days many weeks months 
whatever is now minutes and my my 
clients my the people I work with love 
that because they're they're more in 
their first six months so they're like 
oh so what I'll do is I'll find who do I 
need to call right now is it my husband 
is it my daughter is is it my other 
people I've trained with other 
therapists that do what I do 
even knowing I can oh my body's already 
calming down because it's I'm telling my 
body I love you enough to put you first 
and look at this and take our attention 
off the other person oh this is my 
favorite tool if you want love and you 
want good think if you if you even I'm 
very visual so we're looking outside 
right we're going outside I used to do 
this thing when I was little before I 
even knew this work it was when I was at 
Berkeley in my first serious 
relationship and something started to go 
funny I was like wait a minute I took my 
hands and I literally started pulling 
them towards my face like this like no 
Carly stop thinking outside yourself 
bring all your attention back to you 
look at you who are you don't give that 
person your attention that to me is 
life-changing because when we change on 
the inside and really develop this 
relationship with ourself not to sound 
cheesy and I love Whitney Houston The 
Greatest Love is happening The Greatest 
Love of All is happening to me what was 
she singing about 
yourself herself 
she's she's our role model talk to her 
spirit look what she's been through I 
was the same way I in my teens and 20s I 
was writing about self-love so back to 
the beginning of our talk when you were 
asking me questions 
of my journey I was when I woke up to 
getting really triggered I looked back 
at my old writings and I was like I was 
writing to me not the world and I'm 
getting chills right now I was writing 
about self-love because I wrote a book 
called can you please talk to my 
girlfriend because in Hollywood uh men 
would always come up to me and say could 
you please talk to my girlfriend you 
seem so happy and like you love yourself 
and so Rob Schneider at the time said 
hey that's the title of your books I was 
always just writing little self-love 
spiritual things that just channeled 
through me 
and so that's the teaching 
do your relationship with yourself first 
if you really want to find love and have 
fun and have good dates and know when to 
walk away and know when to marry the 
right person 
fall in love with yourself first 
um and falling in love with yourself 
means prioritizing yourself and 
listening to what it is you actually 
need 
In This Moment especially when you're 
triggered yes yes or you could even do 
it when you're not triggered to be 
preventative proactive 
and I want to add one more thing when we 
do this whether or not you're religious 
or spiritual it doesn't matter we start 
deepening our connection to something 
much bigger than ourselves that Divine 
love 
s our socks off it is bigger than any 
romantic love that is a whole other 
podcast we could talk about I just want 
to throw that seat out there because 
after 20 years of doing this work that 
is happening to me now in my meditations 
my heart is exploding with love for no 
reason 
and let's just leave that there Phil can 
you feel me like I don't want to start 
crying but there's something beautiful 
right here that we all because you were 
created in love you are love 
right and love is our higher self it is 
our highest self and the world has put 
fear into us right and every time and I 
love Marianne Williamson and it's the 
course in Miracle says when I realize oh 
wait I'm in fear brain right now I'm 
feeling anxious I'm feeling sad I'm 
feeling depressed the power to shift 
that is squarely within us to go back 
literally to our higher self and say I 
was creative in love and this is my fake 
brain leading me astray so I'm right 
there with you for smart daters that are 
listening to this you know I have been 
talking to you all month about are you 
in fear brain or are you in love brain 
and you have the ability to create the 
miracle inside of you a miracle is going 
from fear brain into love brain so you 
Carly are creating your own miracles 
and the tool thank you for that that's 
beautiful and people may be asking well 
how do I get out of the fear brain the 
the tool is we regulate the nervous 
system we can't just do it through the 
brain some people can I'm not saying you 
can't the people I've worked with and 
myself and I think you might be able to 
relate to this 
if we really want that for your brain to 
stop coming out and like you said the 
the world is full of fear our families 
have stuff we grew up with there's a way 
to forget that and not put our attention 
on that by regulating the nervous system 
coming out of that fight flight freeze 
response no matter how big or little the 
traumas are so if we're in that fear 
brain it means something needs to be 
resolved 
and I feel like because I've gotten to 
find my voice and regulate and complete 
so much and this is what I do with 
people that the heart can open more 
because I feel safe so now I can get 
back to what did create me instead of 
being bombarded by the external it's 
like who cares we leave this work world 
alone we come in alone all that matters 
it's right here it's a journey to get 
there it's not just super easy but it 
feels amazing every step of the way 
can you give us a couple of things that 
we can do to regulate our nervous system 
we talked about cognizance 
self-awareness what do I need right now 
like what do I need to learn from this 
what am I feeling right now okay so now 
we're like I'm feeling angry because Max 
didn't tell me to turn it the right way 
and then looked at me like I was the 
idiot right now now what do I do with 
that like what are what are the steps 
because all of us every listener here 
could stand to use some hey what can I 
do to maybe just Tamp it down we're 
never going to get to zero but if we can 
just regulate at that moment 
okay so first point is you said 
self-awareness that's perfect what are 
my feelings oh I'm getting angry 
step two 
is what is my lesson 
here what am I learning there are two 
different steps 
so for you this morning what could let's 
have you answered if you want for fun if 
you don't have to if you don't want to 
but what do you think you learned from 
this says talking about that situation 
it could be very simply well I'll let 
you answer that first 
I think I learned that I don't love how 
he behaves around friends in my presence 
and tries to be like cool bro so I think 
that graded on me early enough and then 
the lack of responsibility on his part 
for doing his job also graded on me so 
this is the third step fill that in your 
solar plexus right now if you were to 
even close your eyes drop right down in 
right below your heart because I can 
feel it 
that you drop out of your head and you 
feel that sensation 
I don't like 
how he 
and you sit with that you don't go 
apologize 
you get out of your head you go in your 
body and you say thank you body you're 
telling me what how you didn't like that 
I was treated 
and then it gave me chills 
because you're honoring yourself and 
this is the unwinding right there it's 
like oh I didn't like that we 
that's the first step you just sit with 
that you don't have to think we work so 
quickly right then the next thing is 
what do I do what do I say no no slow 
down just be with that drop that's my 
favorite tool that changed my life life 
I was all up in my head I had no body I 
was walking around head when I when I 
learned to drop out of my head I was 
like oh there is a whole world down here 
my emotions started to release I had 
tears I had never experienced that felt 
amazing 
I got into my voice into my power so 
that that step of feeling your solar 
plexus and your truth 
there's there's three steps right there 
do we want to go more well I love that 
because I think that there's so much 
pressure on us myself included like I 
probably I'm I might react but then I 
freeze so I think and I always say oh 
man I should have said this or I should 
have picked up the ball like I could 
have said blah blah blah but what you're 
saying is it's okay if you didn't have 
anything else to say and you didn't want 
to escalate it it's okay to sit with it 
and come back to it and then talk to the 
person use your voice constructively 
when you are not in escalated mode and 
you can really get at what do I feel 
like was a violation what was your part 
and how could you do better for yourself 
and for me in the future 
beautiful like we need to write that out 
that was okay perfectly said I love that 
and I just saw it for your smart daters 
it's the same thing 
if they go out on a date or they're 
dating someone this process is the exact 
same and you made me think of another 
awesome point and you and I I've you've 
been married many years I've been 
married seven now what I've learned so 
that I'm in my first healthy 
relationship in my life in my 40s you're 
married and you have two kiddos yes he's 
amazing and here's why it works what I 
this is maybe another podcast we both 
own our part if any relationship is to 
work both people both relationships even 
parents and children my 13 year old 
daughter and I both do this she's doing 
it amazingly this is my boundary in this 
house 
nobody's perfect we all own our part no 
blaming we can say what we want 
well this this is a lot of tools and 
there's a lot to say around this but 
I'll keep it simple 
if we all own our part It's going to 
flow things can be messy things can be 
hurt things can be wrong but it won't 
get dark and ugly that is when 
somebody's not owning their part and 
just wants to blame so you want to walk 
away from that that's much bigger stuff 
there when you are owning your part 
you're going to attract other people 
that will do the same and it will flow 
so we could practice with your son your 
son sounds pretty awesome if you were to 
go to him yes so if I would love here 
yeah oh my gosh I would love that oh my 
gosh we should do that that would be 
amazing and or we could do it another 
time however you say you get to practice 
and then we see his response 
and he he'd probably say sorry Mom I was 
I was being rude my friends were around 
now the beauty is just this flower is 
just blossomed now the love can flow 
you know and it brings me to I value 
authenticity and I value consistency and 
when you have one personality in front 
of one person and another in front of 
another person I don't love that in 
people I don't have people like that in 
my life so you're right that was a 
boundary violation for me without 
knowing what I valued 
okay that is 
that is so beautiful what you just said 
sorry I I'm no I'm saying sorry because 
I thought I interrupted you so that's 
when we do say sorry 
so we would apply that to even any of 
your patterns where you feel like you're 
too nice or you don't say things at 
certain times let's we would take that 
up a notch let's say I was working with 
you so you're authentic all the time 
even when you don't want to be 
yeah there's a way to do it that feels 
amazing so it's again it's a little 
scary at first but it feels great it's 
like a good workout okay here's a good 
analogy my husband and daughter wanted 
to try I'm still practicing saying the 
word Jujitsu have you heard of Jiu Jitsu 
Jiu Jitsu sure I never knew exactly I 
mean I'd heard of it but I didn't know 
what it was so they said alien martial 
arts right yes yes so they said come 
with me let's try it oh I just lost my 
train of thought why am I bringing this 
up Jiu Jitsu yeah but right before that 
what were you saying you were saying 
your husband and your daughter we were 
talking about the tools uh the 
authenticity oh not being afraid to 
confront okay that's it'll come to me 
something to do with this so in that Jiu 
Jitsu we are confronting we are saying 
things that could make us feel 
uncomfortable so learning I did lose my 
train of thought but I'm kind of getting 
it I'll go back to it it's it's learning 
that it's okay oh I know what it is it 
just came to me I was uncomfortable 
doing it but it felt amazing right it's 
something new people are sitting on top 
of you you're in neck hold you're 
getting out 
and after it felt amazing I'm more 
empowered I know how to get out so I 
think the point is 
when you want to find your voice or try 
new things to be authentic or confront 
when it's not comfortable there's a way 
to do it that feels amazing so just like 
me going to this class being like I 
don't know 
is that him 
oh you've been the subject of my podcast 
do you want to come in here and say hi 
hey 
this is going out to the airwaves so 
um this is my son Max Max say hi to the 
podcast world 
I'm Max so happy to see you oh my gosh 
this is so cute so cute this is perfect 
timing 
well 
so yes he is 
um we are going to the Tailors and so he 
needs to get a suit fixed because we 
have some parties coming up and 
homecoming so so he was like okay it's 
four o'clock so very funny right 
boundaries he's got boundaries nice what 
year what year in school 
sophomore oh fun super fun cool well we 
have some more we could talk about but I 
do we need to let you go to get your 
suit fixed 
we've got a couple did you have any more 
things that you wanted to tell our Smart 
dating Academy listener world 
gosh I feel like we covered so much this 
has been so fun amazing amazing I'm so 
glad that you know you clearly and thank 
you listeners I hope that you you know 
through Carly coaching me from my 
episode this morning in the car with my 
son I hope that you guys all learn 
is he sitting here going what right and 
so and but really that we all go through 
these things and we all feel the 
feelings and then sitting with it and 
then coming back to it constructively 
versus 
blate just saying you're sorry when it 
wasn't you or freaking out at someone 
really sitting with it yeah understand 
what your body needs and then asking for 
it in a constructive way I hope this has 
helped you dear listener as much as it 
has helped me today awesome that's a 
perfect example and Max because you're 
sitting right there do you feel like 
your mom freaked out this morning or was 
it not too bad 
oh 
I feel like it was not too bad but we 
were just kind of in a rush so yeah do 
you feel like you have any part to play 
in it did you do anything that might 
have irritated her may have irritated 
her a little bit yeah maybe my lack of 
directions 
oh 
that's very sweet of you to say we were 
just talking about how when everybody in 
life and I wish I would have known this 
at your age you seem awesome I have a 14 
year old daughter who's doing this too 
if we all just own our part and say what 
it is we want life is much more 
beautiful so thank you for being real 
and just saying that how did that feel 
Mom oh my gosh it was great my son just 
walked into the podcast Studio not 
knowing what was going on hearing he was 
subject of today's podcast and our 
little episode in the car but Carly this 
was amazing where can we learn more 
about you and and your beautiful 
offerings outside is carlyholden.com 
yeah that's perfect my my name is my mom 
which is Karen k-a-r and my dad Lee they 
thought they were having a third boy so 
literally I came out and they're like 
it's a girl we had all boys picked out 
so let's just put our names together so 
that's why it's 
k-a-r-l-e-e all right and then we'll put 
your website in our notes and we'll 
definitely have you back on the podcast 
this was awesome I would love to so nice 
to meet you I wish I could come get your 
suit tailored with you 
we'll let you all know how it goes so 
smart daters if this has inspired you in 
any way it's September and if you need 
help in the dating world if you need to 
learn what your patterns are if you need 
to learn how to use your voice there's 
help out there okay you can there's a 
variety of people we bring you different 
tools and resources and experts every 
week this week I had this amazing 
conversation with Carly Holden feel free 
if you guys want help and actually 
getting your dating life in order you've 
been hemming you've been hawing you're 
like God I need some accountability God 
I need a personal trainer for my love 
life go to smartdatingacademy.com set up 
a consultation with us so again Carly 
thank you for being with us smart daters 
until next week I bid you farewell and I 
send you a week full of nothing but love 
good Juju and 
nervous system regulation 
