jill wrote a book called big wild love 
tell us your story for 20 years of my 
life one that left me shattered in more 
pieces than the other from heartbreak 
until i finally like stopped looking at 
them for why they were so awful and i 
started to look at myself for why i was 
making the choices i was making in life 
subconsciously decided that i was gonna 
be that person who was probably never 
gonna find love and so i was just gonna 
date someone who was wonderful in every 
way and if they couldn't or didn't want 
more than that i would figure out how to 
be fine with that and that is the 
definition of the s word settling that's 
when you begin to 
stop dating from a place of fear and 
desperation and start dating from a 
place of adventure and play and 
curiosity so i decided to blow up my 
entire life because i knew that if i 
didn't it would be too tempting to go 
back we always say love will come in an 
unexpected package at the end of the day 
the things i have and love are up to me 
and that's it that's big wild love 
