[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love not only is she 
a best-selling author not only is she an 
amazing tedx speaker with like a 
bajillion gazillion views on her Ted 
Talk 
um she's also a very dear friend to me 
I'm super excited dazzled and honored to 
have my friend Jill share Murphy with us 
today Jill thank you for being here oh 
my oh my God Bella I am equally like 
levitating from my seat I'm literally 
can you see me floating 
I I feel like I don't know like is 
everybody ready for us I mean I'm 
sitting here looking at you as we have 
done so many times around our TED talks 
and just life in general and I am going 
to very quickly forget that there are 
like 
I'm sure plenty of people actually are 
going to be listening to you might need 
to like send me a virtual pinch and like 
don't say that 
don't say that you guys Jill is one of 
the most generous and I hope you go to 
the Smart dating Academy Channel and 
watch the video because she's also 
stunningly gorgeous with red hair and 
blue eyes but Jill is an incredibly 
generous person that when I did my tedx 
talk offered out of the sweetness of her 
own heart to help me rewrote listen to 
my talk coach me watch me dig my head 
into a bowl of ice cream many many times 
but ultimately to join along 
she is amazing and the reason I know 
Jill is gonna I was gonna say Inspire 
the pants off of you but maybe in the 
dating world we want to keep your pants 
on so she's going to inspire you to 
levitate out of your chair wherever you 
are listening to this right now but 
she's gonna put some sunlight in so Jill 
Jill wrote a book called big wild love 
because Jill after four Decades of being 
single 
found her big wild love and her story if 
I'm thinking about it right now if I 
could show you guys my arms I have full 
body Goosebumps right now but Jill had 
walked through quite a path in her life 
let go of a lot of things to find her 
love so Jill tell us tell us your story 
of big wild love yeah 
yeah that's quite a lead up I mean you 
know what's interesting Bella like I 
like to think about my story as kind of 
like every woman's story even though I 
went through so many things and you know 
I think when it comes to dating in love 
unless we are one of the 
you know I I don't even want to say 
fortunate ones because I have a lot of 
beliefs about whether we find love 
earlier we find love later in life but 
unless we have like this picture perfect 
idyllic life that has us floating from 
like you know this perfect belief in 
ourselves and then we grow up we come 
out of those teen years and now we're in 
our 20s and we're like right on the 
timeline and we get married and we have 
the babies and we lose the baby weight 
and then we like you know age gracefully 
into our 30s and our 40s like nobody 
does that anymore we have no this is in 
life and love and we come to all of 
those choices from very complicated 
Beginnings especially as women I know 
that's their share of things too I can't 
necessarily speak always to the men's 
side I have an idea because I dated a 
gazillion bajillion katrillion men 
for 20 years of my life one that left me 
shattered in more pieces than the other 
from heartbreak until I finally like 
stopped looking at them for why they 
were so awful and I started to look at 
myself for why I was making the choices 
I was making in life so I got engaged at 
a very young age I was engaged when I 
was like 20 to someone who was terrible 
I somehow found the wherewithal to break 
that off I went and I got graduate 
degrees and I moved on and I dated 
really poorly all through my 20s 
horrible man who broke blood first you 
know broke my heart for Bloodsport until 
I found a really wonderful guy 
named Hector who I dated for 12 years 
and when I met Hector I came to him and 
I think a lot of people can relate to 
this fella I came to him so with my 
heart broken by so many people and so 
lacking in confidence in terms of you 
know my choices or the belief that I was 
gonna ever find what a lot of my friends 
had done which was love and marriage 
that I really wanted 
and so when I met Hector he was like he 
was supposed to be kind of a fun playing 
he was you know really good looking and 
he was Suave and he was you know really 
intellectual and exciting and I he 
wasn't looking for anything serious and 
I wasn't either because I believed 
I would never find it so I thought I'm 
going to protect my heart and I'm just 
going to go out with people that are 
quote safe 
who are not going to give me that 
potential because then I have nothing to 
lose because I had dated someone right 
beforehand who did propose to me and 
turned out to be a cheater had a had a 
girlfriend in a report long story was so 
crushing that I just subconsciously 
decided that I was going to be that 
person who was probably never going to 
find love and so I was just gonna date 
like someone who was wonderful in every 
way and if they couldn't or didn't want 
more than that I would be I would figure 
out how to be fine with that and so but 
it was a lie you know because at the at 
the heart of things we want what we want 
and there's nothing wrong with wanting 
love in marriage I mean I think we're so 
taught like don't be desperate don't 
talk about marriage like it's a bad 
thing that we want to have this in our 
life 
and you know I subscribe to that Holy 
and so every year you know when I didn't 
really press the issue or talk about as 
we got further into this relationship 
and it got more serious and we decided 
to be exclusive but we never lived 
together and all the ways that I wanted 
this man to be committed to me 
in ways that he he couldn't never would 
be and I knew that at the very bottom of 
my soul I knew that pretty early on but 
I hung in there because I thought that 
was all I could get oh now say that 
again for the people in the back I hold 
I hung in there because I thought and 
this is no slight against him he was a 
wonderful man 
but I held in there because I thought he 
was my last best shot at anything 
um who else has goosebumps besides me 
right now and I know if I could ask 
those of you listening how many of you 
could raise your hands and say you've 
had a moment like this I think every one 
of us has right and then what yeah yeah 
because yes because we have all had that 
moment if we've not had that idyllic 
trajectory that I talked about in the 
beginning which none of us have had that 
idea now and actually even if we did it 
would be crazy boring we don't want that 
trajectory that's not why we're here on 
life to have perfect lives right we're 
here to figure it out we're here to 
enjoy the road along the way and and to 
pay attention in the hopes that we do 
catch the lessons that we need to keep 
doing better as we travel on that road 
and I think you know for me it took me a 
really long time 
to get to the place of 
um not holding on because I thought it 
was my last best shot yeah because you 
know we come to that that thinking from 
a place that has nothing to do with the 
other person 
and has everything to do with us and 
what we believe to be true about 
ourselves amen amen and and chill so you 
dated Hector for 12 years and in your 
book big wild love which I need to tell 
every one of you guys you need to order 
it like five minutes ago on Amazon but 
Jill tell us what that moment was for 
you like you said you thought you didn't 
want something serious but in your heart 
of hearts you really did want love you 
wanted marriage you wanted the whole 
burrito but you knew you weren't gonna 
get it but she but she kept telling 
herself he could get there what tell us 
about that moment that you so 
beautifully describe in your book and 
what changed at that moment 
yeah what changed at that moment is 
I think in the bathroom when we're in 
situations right 
doesn't everything like really powerful 
happen to us in the bathroom like don't 
we come to some of our best there's 
actually science and I actually talk 
about that in my book there's a lot of 
science behind that but 
um that is definitely going in the show 
notes all good things in life all 
moments somehow happen in the bathroom 
bro 
um 
um that's for another podcast but anyway 
so I yeah I mean I think there comes a 
point in time in any given situation 
where we know that the truth is not what 
we're allowing ourselves to see like 
that beach ball is just rising up inside 
of us and we can't hold a beach ball 
down forever right right where it like 
Rises up through a windpipe and just 
chokes us with the truth and that is 
what happened to me literally that beach 
ball that I've been holding down so 
strategically convincing myself I didn't 
need marriage I didn't need a piece of 
paper who cares about that I have two 
degrees I don't even know where the 
diplomas are like who cares about paper 
this person was there I wasn't alone and 
that beach ball just kept rising up just 
kept every year after year because in my 
mind I knew that I was shortchanging 
myself that I was being in my to me I 
was being a coward I was I was beating 
myself up for overstaying in this 
experience I knew that it was wrong with 
that beach ball 
came all the way up when my boyfriend at 
the time 
said that he would go see a condo to 
live in it which was like 
so enormous I I couldn't even get this 
man to like always commit to going out 
on a Saturday night but now he's ready 
to look at this apartment and I'm 
thinking 
well okay maybe maybe 
I'm here right and I talk about this in 
the book in the Ted talk you know 
I went to there and I was super excited 
and I had all my rose colored glasses on 
and you can probably guess what happened 
which is that 
he never showed up 
it was one of the most terrifying 
moments because I could not look away 
from that that is how change 
interchange and outer that leads to 
Outer change begins is with that 
Epiphany moment of I can't look away 
from this truth anymore which is that 
this is never going to happen and that's 
when I felt you know backed like a 
raccoon on a deck you know like like 
backed into this corner of 
it is either me or him 
like who am I going to choose am I going 
to choose myself am I going to take a 
chance on myself and walk away from this 
experience that is clearly never going 
to give me what I wanted there's no 
looking away from that now I'm laying on 
the bathroom floor in the stranger's 
apartment crying my eyes out wiping my 
snot with some strange guys you know 
dirty hand towels and laying there my 
one of my worst moments ever and I'm 
like are you going to finally choose you 
wow 
or not 
nobody's here you can do whatever you 
want it's not like you know back then I 
didn't get up on a stage in front of 
four million people and say give you my 
worst dating failure that lead to the 
greatest choice of my life 
but that was the moment is laying there 
and just 
you know saying and if I don't choose me 
why 
and if I do choose me why 
um that's really the whole story 
wow when you know the why 
of who you are in dating and 
relationships when you know the why that 
source of your choices 
that's freedom 
that's like that's when you begin to 
stop dating from a place of fear and 
Desperation and start playing dating 
from a place of Adventure and play and 
curiosity where the stakes become 
increasingly different because you're no 
longer 
attached to that it's like if you're 
stuck on an island and you know how to 
make money and find coconuts and and 
take care of yourself on that island 
you're less desperate sitting at the at 
the shore looking for a boat every day 
while life passes You by yeah both that 
may never be coming but if you don't 
need that boat and I'm not saying that 
we don't need or want love of course we 
do we all want love we all need to have 
love in our lives we all want 
relationships but we don't just want 
relationships that you know by proxy 
okay we've got it check move on we want 
good healthy loving relationships that 
give us everything that we want 
you know and I had a great relationship 
with Hector he was a wonderful man he 
gave me a lot 
but he didn't give me enough he didn't 
give you enough and so 
we're understanding that you chose you 
and then what happened 
so I chose me 
and I I picked up and I moved away I I 
left everything behind I quit my job I 
sold my condo I moved away to back to 
another area of the country the only bad 
part of the story because she was from 
Chicago and we didn't know each other 
then but sorry I digressed so she left 
my city 
to go to Pennsylvania I know well once 
we can get rid of covet I'll be back 
more than you want me to be but um 
but yeah and I'm and again I'm not 
suggesting everybody has to do that but 
I really truly learned 
what it took to let go 
to let go to create and open up space 
for the things that I wanted in my life 
because when we have things in our life 
that we don't want like the port is 
blocked and so we can't have other 
things come in because we're so focused 
on the things that we've already got and 
how we are going to survive them 
so I decided to blow up my entire life 
because I knew that if I didn't it would 
be too tempting to go back 
that was right for me but there's so 
many ways for us to let go in love let 
go of you know the relationship we're in 
that's just we know even if nobody else 
does is not working for us to let go of 
the you know beliefs like Bella you and 
I talk about this all the time I mean I 
had a wonderful wonderful mother I love 
my mother dearly and desperately but she 
put a lot of pressure on me like most 
mothers do to a lot of their daughters 
not most but a lot of women 
perfectly aesthetically beautiful body 
had to be a certain size hair had to 
look a certain way the pressure that we 
feel from society to be partnered and 
married and to like not have any 
mistakes or not make any mistakes I mean 
it's just it is insane and we carry that 
we drag that we we cultivate beliefs 
based on what we learn from childhood 
from our parents and then unless we you 
know I always say like we don't wake up 
in the morning and we're like oh what's 
the weather and what do I believe about 
myself today we all do that right past 
the orange juice 
exactly like nobody teaches us how to do 
that so you know it's really you know 
understanding why we make this the 
choices we make and why we sit inside 
the ideas that we do which is 
this is the best I can do I just need to 
suck it up who am I like 
when I tell people you know like I say 
in my TED talk you know my life was 
pretty good but it wasn't good it wasn't 
good enough 
like in some circles that's a that's a a 
line of entitlement like how dare we ask 
for more 
right where we ask for what we actually 
want and expect to get it and that my 
friends is the definition of the s word 
settling 
right and we don't ask for more and we 
keep trying to push that beach ball down 
right you know and you know and you know 
and I know through having Smart dating 
Academy for 12 and a half years and 
listening to the stories of women and 
men and when I ask when did you first 
know or when did you first see the red 
flags or when did you know this 
relationship wasn't going to give you 
what you want every single person tells 
me 
I knew right away I knew in the 
beginning I knew it's very very seldom 
I'm sure there are some of you that have 
been blindsided and things were good but 
the majority of the time when people 
look really carefully all the signs were 
there like Jill said from the beginning 
from the beginning now Jill take us 
through you blow up your life in Chicago 
you leave you go back to Pennsylvania 
and you put yourself 
you put yourself on dating sites I did 
oh my God and you know Bella I did not 
have a Bella which oh my God if I had a 
Bella forget about it geez that would 
have been awesome 
um yes I did we all need a Bella we all 
know in our dating lives and I'll tell 
you what like it's so funny because I 
remember like dating sites were practic 
were pretty new when I had gotten on 
them I mean you know this was a while 
ago and I just remember being like I 
don't even know how to date let alone 
like I now I have to use technology like 
how do I do this and I remember the 
first I got on so I I decided that I was 
going to be on every dating site 
um and that I was gonna I was gonna 
approach it like because I'm a 
journalist I was gonna approach it like 
I'm I'm just writing an article you know 
Jill finds love after 40. like I'm just 
writing an article I'm just exploring no 
biggie 
um and I remember the first time someone 
winked at me on Match I like ran into 
the bathtub fully clothed pulled the car 
I thought they could see me I was so 
freaked out of my mind I'm like what is 
this what is this like how am I supposed 
to do this can you all imagine Jill 
fully clothed sunglasses on hopping both 
feet over the tub and pulling the shower 
curtain oh my God 
I was so freaked out and you know what 
honestly like even today I I think there 
is something that is very like 
um 
you know it's nerve-wracking at first 
until you get the swing of it to think 
that like you know somebody is coming at 
you 
through a computer and I know we're used 
to that in so many different ways now 
but you know when it comes to love we're 
so like tender you know it like goes to 
such a deep part of of us and who we are 
and how we're wired and so what I slowly 
got the hang of it and I made all the 
mistakes I'm sure and I was very lucky 
or smart in that I did I was not on the 
dating sites for very long before I 
finally met the man that I was supposed 
to meet that answered all the questions 
of why why is it taking so long where is 
he already 
um and I I knew I knew what to choose 
for I was a fully formed adult who was 
no longer beholden to a lack of big wild 
love inside myself 
when I came at that dating experience in 
my early 40s I had the mindset of 
maybe I will never meet anyone to marry 
and you know what that's okay by me and 
I don't even say that in a in a 
Pollyanna light kind of way because 
anything is possible right but you know 
I also told myself that if I didn't meet 
and have the things that I want that 
there were so many ways to be happy in 
life and I was determined to do it and 
that allowed me to be very discerning 
about my choices and to not fall back 
into Old Habits which I almost did with 
a few of the guys that I dated and liked 
who definitely did not want the 
commitment and relationship that I did 
and you ladies all know what I'm talking 
about the ones that are like great on 
the date and then once you're gone it's 
like bye hear from them or they call you 
know they like breach like a whale you 
know a couple weeks later or whatever 
there we are we're ready let's go give 
me a jingle we're ready to go right but 
we don't I learned how to 
believe enough in myself and what I 
wanted in life and and to cultivate that 
inner um love and caring for myself and 
confidence and ability to know that 
being happy was a choice and I could 
make it and then I was not a victim that 
it was not poor me why is everybody else 
coupled and I'm not that I was on my own 
time frame that nothing in my life was 
about you know looking sideways to see 
how other people were doing and holding 
myself up to them because we have no 
idea what's going on in people's no you 
have no idea no no no idea and tell us 
about your first date with Dan I love 
this story right we always say love will 
come in an unexpected package right it's 
never he's never gonna be who you think 
he is so I lead you into that with with 
that well I mean my you know my now 
husband he show up at our restaurant 
that we agreed to meet at he I mean I 
think my husband is handsome I thought 
he was handsome back then and I got 
there early I was wearing a straw hat 
that my friends had begged me to buy it 
was really expensive and they were like 
you look amazing in that hat and you 
should wear it so of course I was like 
being the defiant you know big 
personality Jill I was like I'm just 
gonna wear this patent if he doesn't 
like it he's not for me and 
I could see him he looked so confused 
like finding the restaurant in our 
darling little New Hope Town and then he 
finally came in and he had with him 
it was rainy it was supposed to be rainy 
he brought this really kind of nasty 
looking rain hat a rain hat okay what's 
a rain hat pull out of a mud room 
instead of an umbrella and I was like oh 
my God this is so adorable like and he 
and you know the funny thing Bella is 
that 
he I could see like I could see that his 
phone went off and like he reached in 
his pocket and turned it off and I know 
that was his save him call you know we 
talked about it after and he he told me 
that he was sitting there and he was 
looking at me and he was like the hat is 
so weird 
because women we dress for other women 
we don't dress for men oh my God he 
thought my hat was just the weirdest 
thing ever but there was something in 
him 
that was like no I need to stay here 
because this woman is different 
um 
and it was it you know when you find the 
right person I will tell this to your 
whole audience because let me tell you I 
dated for a long ass this time okay 
all different kinds that's hyphenated 
long ass for the work for the record 
right 
when it is the right person it does not 
at this this stage of the game 
it does not take long when you when you 
go out into the world fully formed when 
you go out to the world with big wild 
love you instinctively and reflexively 
and with great awareness and intention 
let go of the things that are not meant 
for you including people situations and 
anything else anything else things you 
think about yourself any toxicity you 
just let that go you do you really 
you really really do because you 
know that no matter what happens you 
will always be okay because you have you 
and you are the boss 
like amen my ex who I thought was the 
boss for 12 years was never the boss 
I gave him the I gave him the big office 
you gave him the big office the corner 
office the keys right and the red carpet 
welcome yes 
and I made him dinner and I cleaned the 
place like 
it took me a really long time to figure 
out what I wish it hadn't which was that 
at the end of the day 
the things I have in love are up to me 
they're the byproduct of my choices and 
those choices are the byproduct of what 
I believe to be true about myself 
and that's it and that's it that's big 
wild love you got the rain head he gave 
you his rain hat to wear in the rain he 
brought one for you guys he brought a 
second rain hat he did he brought a rain 
hat can you believe that who does that 
number one Bella only one he didn't wear 
a rain hat oh no he was too cool for 
that he brought old you in the rain and 
I wore it 
he's like please take that straw thing 
off your dancing off your head please 
wear my janky rain hat because I will 
find you sizzling hot with that and find 
that I should have worn it for our 
podcast 
I'm sure you need to find that hat and 
Joe's husband guys for the record Dan is 
the cutest nicest oh he's wonderful most 
generous loving husband and he's an 
elevator person on steroids he's an 
elevator person and I know that you guys 
know what an elevator person is because 
you've been listening to this podcast so 
it's somebody that lifts you up and 
elevates you and yet keeps you safe and 
grounded that's an elevator person and 
Dan is the ultimate elevator person for 
Jill and it is not too much to ask for 
an amen person in love the same way we 
ask for that at our workplace the same 
way we ask that in our friendships the 
same way we ask for that in ourselves 
yeah and if we're not asking that of 
ourselves first 
we're not ready to go out there yet got 
some work to do 
because absolutely we model we role 
model for the people we date how we 
treat ourselves how we see ourselves how 
we Champion ourselves how we are there 
for ourselves 
and 
that is really hard to come to 
you know unless we're we're lucky and 
we're giving it as in our childhood 
we're given esteem and all these things 
or we've had our ass kicked enough that 
we're tired of looking outward at the 
world for our solution 
it's always in us every single time and 
I really do believe that 
so Jill if you had to give everybody 
here who you've inspired to know my gosh 
I was that person for 12 years and she 
let go and I can let go and she did the 
online thing and I can do this and I too 
can find the lid to my pot the the rain 
hat to my head we should call it for you 
is what were what would be 
you know what would be a couple of 
things that you could tell people as we 
level up in this new year and we all 
want big wild love in our lives and we 
want that big wild love across the board 
like Jill said yes the lid to your pot 
your romantic partner but everywhere in 
our life so what would you what would 
you tell us to do okay 
so big wild love begins with us it is 
the it is the self-love with intention 
that we need that allows us to let go of 
what's not serving us to take those 
risks because risk is involved with 
letting go so that we can create space 
for what we want so the big wild love we 
need to ultimately find big wild love 
with someone else starts with us and so 
I would say this 
tonight when you're drinking your wine 
your coffee your milkshake your 
Metamucil whatever it is sorry your salt 
water your salt water you're gonna take 
out a notebook and you're gonna Journal 
I'm a huge fan of journaling not just 
because I'm a writer because there's so 
much research that if you Journal you 
will change your life and your outcomes 
and the first thing is is to answer the 
questions or look at make a list of what 
do you have now and what do you want and 
look at where the gaps are because 
that's that's the gaps are where you 
need to let go so it's really figuring 
out if you are here if you are single or 
divorced and you want love you want to 
get here what is in between you and 
single and love that is standing between 
you make a list of what those things are 
what you think they are are they your 
kids are they you know shared 
friendships are they the pressures of 
convention are they internal limiting 
beliefs which are huge like I'm too fat 
to find love again right Divine love 
again 
um I'm too 
um I don't choose well to find love 
again I'm not lucky you know fate wants 
me to be single it's a sign from the 
universe that I'm not supposed to be 
with anyone like what are those things I 
call them let goables I love that let go 
of both which is anything you need to 
let go of to get from point A to point B 
so make a list of what those let goables 
are and then as you look at each one of 
them maybe start with three 
so if you have most of those let Gobles 
are coming from your limiting beliefs 
so what beliefs do you have about 
yourself and who you are in love and 
relationship that might be holding you 
back from getting to that place that you 
want to go and journal around them I 
promise you if you do this once a day 
for 10 minutes and you keep your hand 
moving every day you are going to one 
day be aghast at what you write on that 
page and that is when the good stuff 
begins 
and for those of you who don't have the 
book yet I'm telling you on page 
191 of big wild love Jill puts down 100 
potential let goables so if there's a 
Chasm between where you are and where 
you want to be and you really can't 
figure out what it is especially 
internally that you need to let go of 
this list in this book there are 100 of 
them and I promise you I can look at 
every place I am versus where I want to 
be and I can go oh yeah it's absolutely 
number 55. other people's voices in my 
head telling me what to do or who I 
should be right and these are things we 
that you need to know and you need to 
let go of to finally make those big 
moves for your big wild love and I have 
to say one more thing about which is 
really simple for people if you're 
struggling to let go of any of the 
things we've talked about 
I would say the very first thing you 
need to do is to get up in that mirror 
with love and grace 
and all of the compassion in the world 
for yourself 
and say out loud what you know is true 
you don't have to tell it to anyone else 
I know that this person that this 
relationship is not going to get me 
where I want to go 
I know that I'm scared to be alone 
I know that I think I'm too 
insert whatever to be loved 
I know that I'm wounded from X Y and Z I 
know that I am holding on to this 
horrible experience from dating that is 
getting in my way 
I know that this is what is true I feel 
ashamed that everyone around me has 
found love in marriage and I haven't 
what's wrong with me 
just get it out of your body and then 
whatever emotions come what may on the 
backs of it let yourself cry let 
yourself feel terrible let yourself be 
shocked that you would even think that 
about yourself 
and then once you get rid of all that 
muck and all that repressed 
feelings and beliefs that are admiring 
you down 
then you are a clean palate and you're 
free to start dreaming and envisioning 
what comes next but you've got to get 
real with yourself you have to know what 
those things are you have to know and 
for so many of us we don't stop long 
enough right understand what those 
things are and this is really it can be 
a real moment of Reckoning you guys if 
you don't want to see them that's why we 
don't stop like I would never stop in 
the mirror and say this man is never 
going to marry me 
what a terrifying Epiphany what a 
terrifying acknowledgment that was like 
saying oh my God you just took 12 years 
of your life like cash dollars and threw 
it into the lake right right there's so 
much attached to what we're afraid to 
see but once we see it it frees us and 
that is the truth 
amen so take that look in the mirror 
right like Jill is saying and what do 
you truly believe what's holding you 
back and and from personal experience I 
can tell you this when you get to the 
bottom of what those things are that's 
just step one right it's acknowledging 
what those things are it doesn't mean 
you eviscerate those things like okay I 
grew up thinking I'm too fat right and 
it doesn't mean I look in the mirror and 
go I think I'm not dating right because 
I'm too fat it doesn't mean that goes 
away but it means how are you going to 
let go of that and start to love 
yourself as you are or for some people 
maybe to get yourself to where you'll 
feel better in your own skin but 
whatever that is and know that those 
things can come back and they'll always 
be the Boogeyman and the mind monkeys 
that jump around your brain but first 
acknowledging them and then having a way 
to say oh that's just the crazy person 
I've got crazy Hilda in my head who's 
trying to keep me down right now just 
name that altar personality and name it 
a name that you hate right someone like 
maybe there's a person that bully on the 
playground and no it's that person it 
doesn't just go away you're gonna have 
to have a strategy to deal with it add 
infinitum even in the dating world 
especially when we go out into the world 
where life changes or we feel vulnerable 
we're going to have those limiting 
beliefs about ourselves but we have the 
power to revise them and we revise them 
we take that I'm too I'm too old or I'm 
too fat or I'm too whatever to be loved 
to saying I am perfect just the way that 
I am I embrace my curves whoever I meet 
whoever I allow into my life is lucky to 
have me I have so much to offer it's 
reframing the stories and everyone says 
this because it's the truth it's 
reframing them and so to Bella's point 
it's the awareness that allows us to 
know what the story is we can't do 
anything if we don't know what the story 
is we're telling ourselves but once we 
know that story 
we can revise it to be completely 
different because 
beliefs only true if we say so 
there's no there's no definitiveness to 
the things to the beliefs that other 
people give us beliefs you guys let me 
just break this down for a second a 
belief is an opinion 
it's somebody else's opinion we can have 
religious belief spiritual beliefs 
intellectual beliefs but beliefs are 
beliefs because they are not true they 
might be true to you but they're not 
inherently empirically true so a belief 
is an opinion and if I give you the data 
saying well Jill if you don't think 
you're attractive enough I think you're 
gorgeous so how about we shift that 
belief 
right because that's a bad opinion you 
have that is not serving you let's take 
one on that does serve you so that you 
know just right you keep telling 
yourself I'm not attractive enough to 
find love I'm too fat guess what you're 
gonna do the s word settle because you 
are telling yourself some bogus BS Laden 
story and that story impacts our choices 
in a huge way so you know what we can 
change our story 
right now 
we can change it right now and we can 
keep telling the news story to ourselves 
over and over and over and over and over 
until we start to live it and manifest 
it and breathe it and how we do that 
shows to the outside world that's not 
the reason to do it but when we start to 
believe those things about ourselves 
those empowering things about ourselves 
people are drawn to that people want to 
be around other people who are empowered 
emboldened who like themselves and 
you know like attracts like Bella I mean 
you know if we're not thinking if we're 
insecure we don't think good things 
about ourselves that's what we're 
pulling in 
and so the work always starts there 
we're not powerless even though it feels 
like I'm never gonna not feel this way 
about myself I'm never not going to 
believe this about myself 
that may be true that our reflexes and 
our impulses always drive us to the 
place 
but when we have that awareness we can 
stop the train we can say wait a minute 
that's old that was the old belief 
here's the new belief and I'm going to 
write it down I'm going to type it into 
my computer I'm going to write it down 
I'm going to put it on a Post-It note 
put it up on my bathroom mirror this is 
my new belief 
and I'm going to keep telling myself 
until I don't have to anymore it's just 
part of me 
absolutely 
it's not there's no magic bullet Matt's 
that's the really hard thing about this 
stuff is there's like not something you 
could buy to change your belief or not 
some like really simple like one-time 
exercise but awareness is so powerful it 
was for me when I could track back that 
I stayed in that relationship because I 
didn't think I was attractive enough 
to go out and now I was now I was older 
in my 40s now I had a new limiting 
belief that I was too old but I had the 
power at any given point in time to say 
no you know what I am not a perfect size 
six I might never be I might have to 
decompose to get there but you know what 
who I am right now is wonderful and you 
know what if somebody out there wants to 
be with a perfect size six they don't 
want me if someone wants to be with a 28 
year old they don't want me and you 
don't want them 
I was gonna say and I don't want them 
that is not interesting to me so you 
know it's it's like not everybody is 
gonna want to be with us and that's okay 
we're looking for one person most of us 
really for one one 
you know and that's the other important 
thing which is when you have those with 
those you know bold beliefs empowered 
beliefs it's less about whether they 
like you and more about whether you like 
them and once you get to that place 
you're on fire you're unstoppable and 
let me tell you too probable and if I'm 
a lot of you have heard me talk about 
psychotic optimism but if this is your 
first time to the podcast I'm going to 
tell you if you need a belief I'm gonna 
fire hose you with a new belief that's 
going to make you a psychotic optimist 
so here it is love exists for me it's a 
when it's not an if right that baby in 
red lipstick on your liver right now if 
you need me to handle the belief that's 
the Smart dating Academy belief you are 
a psychotic Optimist love exists for me 
it's a when not an if and that will help 
to power up your speedboat in the right 
direction so that is your first belief 
that I'm gonna take out am I good enough 
will love exist for me am I too old I'm 
telling you love exists for you it's a 
when it's not an if okay and right and 
that kind of thinking attracts like 
thinking 
right because you are going to go out 
into the world now with that with that 
fierce 
confidence that is so appealing to other 
people who are fiercely confident 
because that's what you want like any of 
us can go out into the world and find 
any Joe Shmoe or Karen schmarin or 
whatever to date and be with I mean 
finding a warm body is not the problem 
it's like you're looking for Quality you 
are looking for an equal so if you're 
looking for an equal you need to be at 
the top of that game mentally because 
that's what you're going to find 
yourself attracted to and attracted back 
to you you know Bella I love when you 
always talk about like that heart palp 
and how we think that's the sign of our 
soulmate when really it's like a super 
red flag when we don't know these people 
because we're always going to be drawn 
to what's familiar and safe but 
when we have that Fierce confidence we 
stop doing that we might we might have 
that that impulse I know I did 
but that's when they open I tell a story 
in my book about this but that's when 
the awareness comes in and then like I I 
met someone that you know I was beholden 
to him for three days until I was like 
wait a minute this could be three dates 
could turn into three years and I'm 
still waiting for him no way Jose the 
situation I just laughed wait a minute 
and that awareness spared me that's how 
powerful awareness could be but if I 
didn't know that about myself or my 
situation where I hadn't done all that 
work to cultivate my big wild love I 
might have hung in that situation 
because I liked him and he was cute and 
we had fun dates and I couldn't wait to 
see him again but you know what he 
didn't want the same thing 
bye bye 
bye boy see you and that leads to one of 
the 2022 dating terms of the year which 
is called hardballing and you know what 
that means hardballing I've just put 
this together hardballing means you're 
gonna State your intentions for what you 
want people post pandemic are looking 
for relationships they're looking for 
authenticity they're looking for 
commitment and so guess what ladies and 
gentlemen when you're out there after 
you've been on a couple of dates it's 
okay Jill and I are giving you the 
permission to say Hey sir or madam 
I'm looking for a serious 
but fun relationship that could lead to 
marriage is that your intention as well 
and if that person looks at you like 
Darren headlights and say well I I don't 
really know what I'm looking for at that 
point you have permission to cut the 
rope and move on I want you to be with 
somebody that like Jill saying what I'll 
tell you what the Perfect Analogy is 
it's the lid to your pot and it fits 
perfectly it's not that lid that's like 
tipped or you know just doesn't work and 
you're like oh God where's the matching 
lid the lid fits perfectly and that 
means that person wants what you want 
and by dates three and date four if you 
say hey I'm looking for something 
serious a committed long-term 
relationship that leads to marriage 
that's fine that's hardballing don't 
Meander like you're hanging out in the 
wind for six months going well I think 
he does I'm not really sure now hell no 
this is the year commitment 
relationships big wild love for you you 
say what you need and you know what 
Bella I have to say this because I think 
this is a really important point to that 
when we think about letting go when we 
think about using our big our own big 
wild love to let go of things because 
we're no longer afraid of the feelings 
that will come when we release things 
even if they had value to us if we are 
with a person who doesn't want what we 
want that's okay yes that doesn't make 
them a horrible person that doesn't make 
them wrong it doesn't make them bad it 
just means that they don't want what you 
do and you can wish them well and keep 
moving because I find that when I 
villainize another person in dating for 
not wanting what I want that is not 
helpful that's not helpful that just 
makes me bitter or feeds into a limiting 
belief that all men or women are ex or 
all men or women don't want Acts or it's 
so fine to Heart find a good person who 
acts no it's just that person didn't 
want what you did they might be the 
greatest person you know what Hector was 
a wonderful man he was a wonderful man 
he just didn't want what I did and 
who am I to vilify or say what another 
person should want from their life but 
we can choose with love in our hearts 
to release and let go with love in our 
hearts because that's good for us 
so that we don't walk away from the 
experience feeling a sense of bitterness 
or leaning on that victim mindset or 
those broad generalizations of see look 
all men or women are acts no that's not 
true either and I I really think that's 
so important especially in the world of 
dating as we look and make choices about 
what we hold on to and who we hold on to 
and how we feel about the process and 
what we choose to let go of and so 
the people that I dated in the dating 
online dating process there were a few 
that liked me more than I liked them 
um there were a few that I liked more 
who didn't want obviously didn't like me 
you know but all of it I I moved for all 
of it unless someone was really awful 
and no one was 
I moved to the process in a very gentle 
way 
and I was always very careful to let go 
of people in situations that were not 
right for me and I know this is going to 
sound really like wooy and I don't mean 
it that way 
with a with a sense of love and kindness 
and compassion go ahead go deal with 
your life you're not for me thank you 
for showing me that 
thank you for showing me that because 
that's just allowing me to reinforce my 
own goals and intentions 
you know what we call that bless and 
release 
okay 
and release them back inside lesson 
released bye and right 
this I literally feel like we could talk 
for another 17 hours which I know we can 
and I know you're going to be back with 
us Jill is there is there any 
inspiration anything you'd want to tell 
our listeners I know you've given some 
amazing advice already is there any 
other last minute like go do this that 
you'd like to leave us with yeah 
go out into the world of dating and 
please have fun 
[Music] 
I know this is not like this profound 
like you know so good you know 
we are here in life for such a short 
period of time 
and love is not meant to be torture 
let's make t-shirts out of that 
I mean they're they're there needs to be 
an acceptance and a willingness to 
embrace come what may 
with a healthy distance a healthy sense 
of Detachment which is really what 
letting go is all about 
and not making it about us but just kind 
of getting on the ramp the raft and like 
choosing which way on the river we want 
to ride and letting life and love 
surprise us along the way because 
there's no Marathon here there's no you 
know this is not the Hunger Games you 
know there's no trophies for finding 
love on Tuesday right there's no 
trophies like it's all part of the 
process of our lives and so dating can 
be a really joyful experience even if 
it's not about finding the one tomorrow 
and so you know use that act of letting 
go and have released to know that you 
don't you're not stuck anywhere there 
are no definites about large groups of 
people that you release the idea that 
you don't have the power to not only 
choose well but enjoy yourself along the 
way 
ah 
Goosebumps full head to toe I love me 
some Jill share Murphy and I love you 
back my Bella you guys did too thank you 
so much for joining us Jill and thanks 
to all of you for listening today and as 
always download us give us that great 
five-star review because Jill is amazing 
order her book on Amazon big Wild Love 
And subscribe to our newsletter at 
smartdating Academy 
smartdatingacademy.com lots of free 
information you'll see who's coming up 
and all of the things and of course 
follow me on Instagram to join in our 
Instagram live we are here to bring more 
love into your life and more life into 
your love and we will see you next time 
on the Smart dating Academy podcast 
