[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm bellagande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back I am really 
excited about today's guest who was 
introduced to me by my friend Melissa 
and Melissa said Bella I have a friend 
who I think you're gonna love her she's 
a little different than what you've had 
on but your energies match and Melissa 
couldn't have been more right I am so 
delighted honored and excited to have 
with us today spiritual medium Erica 
Gabriel Erica welcome to the Smart 
dating Academy podcast I mean I'm just 
so excited to be with you today thank 
you for having me oh my gosh well let's 
jump right into this because a lot of 
this is new to me and ladies and 
gentlemen get your seat belts on because 
I'm sure today is going to be a ride 
because this woman is awesome and filled 
with wisdom that we can both see and we 
don't see so 
so and if you could see her right now 
she put her arms out like yes preach so 
how did you become a spiritual medium 
tell us about you and your story yeah so 
I um when I was around seven I started 
realizing seeing sensing feeling that I 
could kind of connect with things that 
other people couldn't see 
so I could feel energy I could sense 
things I could immediately sense things 
about people that I would meet so this 
was from a very young age and when I 
moved into a house a new house with my 
mom and stepdad I started seeing a 
little boy around the house 
and told them about it which is like you 
know what do you make of that when your 
seven-year-old tells you that you know 
it's gets it can be confusing and you 
know my parents later found out that a 
little boy had died on that property oh 
my God Goosebumps yes and so I had kind 
of been seeing him connecting with him 
feeling him and you know being a medium 
and connecting with spirit and 
connecting with the quote unseen was 
always a part of who I was but I didn't 
know really what that meant or what to 
call it or how to navigate that and you 
know I I think about my 20s as like a 
wild goose chase as many of our 20s are 
right to find out exactly right like to 
find out who I was 
um and through that searching right 
which I mean we could talk 20s for hours 
but through that searching um I really 
came to understand that I was really 
here on a calling from God and to help 
people I didn't know what that was or 
looked like and then eventually it 
unfolded that I was a spiritual medium 
and I actually went to a medium 
and she was like oh you know you're a 
spiritual medium right and it was like 
no but yes but no and also thank you 
because you just 
put all the puzzle pieces nice and 
tightly into my life and help me 
understand what the heck was wrong with 
me right which I always thought gosh I'm 
so haunted I have so many spooky things 
why can't I hear things about other 
people it was so unclear 
and when she kind of like pulled the bow 
on that gift you know the gift was 
already there but she kind of pulled a 
put a bow on it and tightened the bow 
everything just kind of flew open from 
there and everything was like a bonfire 
and I just started I mean within two 
weeks I had people knocking on my door 
for readings literally oh my God what 
for those of us who haven't lived in 
this world described to me the 
difference between a psychic and a 
medium best question right because even 
when I'm about to read for someone 
sometimes they're like wait what do you 
do what is this so um a spiritual so 
I'll start with a psychic a psychic is 
someone who really Taps into someone's 
aura and their energy and can sense and 
feel things about their past present and 
future right and they're really 
predicting future events 
a medium which is what I do I'm actually 
a spiritual medium which means I'm a 
deeply deeply spiritual and committed 
person to God and I mediate information 
from the other side right so meaning 
when I go to read for someone I'm not 
reading their energy 
but I'm actually opening a door in a 
protected and safe way to the other side 
for them right so let me explain like 
you Bella you are already connected to 
the spirit world without me so if you 
were to call me for a reading I am not 
carrying your loved ones in spirit your 
answers your messages with me you are 
carrying your messages with you your 
beautiful family who's crossed over in 
spirit is with you your angels are with 
you your Spirit guides are with you so 
when I read for you I have a gift and an 
ability 
to to kind of open the door to the 
spirit world and when I do that I tune 
into you and your connection to Spirit 
and I hold space 
for your loved ones I hold space for 
your angels I hold space for your Spirit 
guides to show me and tell me things to 
serve you and assist you in your life 
and I mediate that information and then 
I deliver it to you so when I open to 
read for Spirit 
sometimes psychic-like predictions do 
come through I can't control that 
sometimes loved ones who have crossed 
over do come through I can't control 
that I can't control what doesn't 
doesn't come through so I have total 
faith in spirit that Spirit portrays to 
me exactly what you're meant to hear at 
this time in your life when I read for 
you 
so to put it into perspective let's say 
for example I came in to do a reading do 
I have to some extent an agenda of 
connecting with people that have crossed 
over where I want closure or I want 
advice or guidance or reasons like why 
did you do that we never got closure 
like I I want people to understand the 
work you do which is why I'm drilling 
into this yeah well that's what a medium 
does a medium is available and open to 
hold space for that person so if you 
come into the reading I always ask 
people to have three specific questions 
right we cover many more than three 
questions but the three questions help 
prepare your energy and your Spirit 
guides energy and really gets them and 
gives them a chance to prepare answers 
for you so you know sometimes people 
will come in with questions like am I on 
the right path with my field of work 
what are some things I can do what does 
Spirit say about my relationship right 
what does Spirit say about you know uh 
the property that we're selling you know 
that it can be like that sometimes 
people will come in just focused on 
connecting with a loved one right so 
there's all kinds and that's what's 
different about a medium and a psychic 
right you can come in to connect with 
Spirit which you're already connected to 
but have me listen in for you and 
deliver you those messages it's kind of 
like you know sometimes like when you 
can go into 
a friend's closet and you're like oh I 
can organize this girl you don't need 
this anymore these shoes are done you 
can organize it and then you go to your 
closet and you're like I don't even know 
what to do here right you need something 
to come in my closet with you this 
morning did you have did you have did 
you have a premonition of what happened 
this morning with me in my wardrobe 
right but like someone else can come in 
and that's kind of you know it's a silly 
example for something that's really 
really sacred and profound but it's it's 
someone it's me who comes in and 
connects to spirit with you and for you 
and really Tunes in and listens in and 
is able to deliver you messages that 
you're meant to hear so yes to answer 
your question you can ask about love you 
can ask about life you can ask about a 
loved one has crossed over so the only 
thing I don't do in readings is I don't 
demand or yank information so it's not a 
seance 
I don't call out to your grandma and and 
you know really try and get her to come 
I'm a medium so I need the information I 
have been training for over 15 years so 
I know how to open the door to the 
spirit world in a safe and clear way and 
tune in for you and your energy and tune 
in to the answers uh that your guides 
and your angels and your loved ones want 
to give you 
okay gosh and spirit could be anything 
it could be God it could be your angels 
it could be people that have crossed 
over the line you can tell I'm a newbie 
at this world so and I'm figuring other 
people are and we need to know all of 
the tools that exist that are out there 
right it's like wow am I in the right 
space of being a love guide and a love 
coach and a dating coach so right those 
are the kinds of questions to ask like 
help me with my guts 
yeah exactly exactly and you can you 
really you know you can bring anything 
to the table when you're working with a 
medium that you trust and you know bring 
it to the table and really see how how 
Spirit responds you know amazing things 
happen in reading so the thing about 
readings is like you know you can 
explain them over and over and over 
again and I can tell you all of my 
experiences but every reading is so 
unique and sacred and special every 
reading is there to support the person 
that wants to get the reading and wants 
to connect with spirit in that way 
wow amazing 
um well let's take I know you've read 
for thousands of people 
and you've amassed a lot of information 
throughout the years you've even 
developed this course that we'll talk 
about as we close out the the episode 
but if you had to say and I'm sure 
people with love you work with a lot of 
people that maybe Haven't Found Love or 
on the path to finding love or have had 
just their hearts broken in love a 
hundred thousand times and yet they're 
resilient and they want to do it again 
and they want to find love what are the 
three things in the spirit world that 
you most often see that are blocking 
people from love 
um okay so there's a couple of things 
um 
and it's so funny when you say three and 
and like I'm like yes we discussed three 
and now I'm like oh my gosh I have ten 
but anyway okay that's fine let's do ten 
let's go there girl we're all we are 
very flexible so you know the the first 
thing that comes up right at the door is 
fear right and fear is 
something that blocks us from so many 
things right and and I think what 
happens is and what I've listened in on 
these readings and heard Spirit talk 
about is fear and we look back and we 
think oh my gosh like this has happened 
and it was so catastrophic in my world 
and I'm so heartbroken and this was so 
horrible you know that this happened and 
you know one of the things and one of 
the ways to work through fear of 
repeating uh you know things that have 
that have happened in the past is to 
understand that those were life lessons 
not life sentences you are not now 
sentenced to a life of living alone 
because you were vulnerable and put 
yourself out there and it didn't work 
out life lessons 
we are here to learn and spirit talks 
about that so much Spirit talks about 
Earth being a classroom 
and really those are our life lessons 
and to not just hold your feet to the 
fire of these past I put in quotations 
mistakes when we really know their 
lessons uh anymore so we just we're 
afraid and we're afraid we're going to 
repeat the same thing over and over 
again and so we start to build up this 
hard shell just like no no it's cool 
it's cool I'm good I it's fine and we 
kind of remove ourselves and we kind of 
take away our vulnerability so we won't 
get hurt so that's a huge one and going 
anything we do from a place of fear 
doesn't lead to good results right fear 
keeps you closed off fear keeps you to a 
certain extent comfortable you're not 
going to jump off your lily pad if 
you're afraid and if you don't have the 
courage when what are you gonna do 
the same thing again there's and this is 
what happens and this is why 
you know an easy stat to think about is 
the divorce rate 50 of first marriages 
end in divorce 67 percent of second 74 
of third ladies and gentlemen what you 
do from a place of fear is going to keep 
you closed off and doing the same thing 
over and over again so I love that your 
first 
thing that you see that's blocking 
people is fear I couldn't agree with you 
more and if this is resonating with you 
and if you're listening to this fact 
that fear and it's putting a pit in your 
stomach and you're like I'm scared 
to do this this is an alarm Bell for you 
that it's time to change something up do 
something that makes you mitigate that 
fear enlist a village of people hell it 
takes a village to find love okay all we 
do all day long I always say we're in 
your corner with you exhale you have us 
as you're on Earth guides holding your 
hands and you're saying the same thing 
in the spirit world 
absolutely and and I cannot tell you how 
many times I read for people and their 
guys are like you are not meant to live 
your life alone 
I'm meant to share it it's okay and and 
it feels so good when people hear that 
but then they immediately start to bump 
into their blocks and it's like I can't 
get there that sounds good that feels 
good but I I have more blocks and one of 
the other blocks that we bump into is 
what I call false agreements which is 
also kind of tied up with a trauma 
response so let me explain and you will 
love this example I'm already obsessed 
let's go let's go so I 
I read for someone and she kind of I 
opened to read for her and and it was 
like her energy it was like okay so you 
just got a divorce 
and she was like no and I'm like okay so 
what no you just got a divorce and she 
was like no and you know it's funny for 
me as a medium because I 100 trust 
spirit 100 right so I'm like 
am I like what's happening here I'm like 
you didn't just get a divorce and she 
said well I got a divorce 10 years ago 
and I was like oh 
because her divorce 
was literally the very first thing in 
her energy space 
wow and she had not let it go in fact 
all of the things that she believed 
about herself from that divorce 
we're completely conducting her life 
so meaning her husband at her ex-husband 
you know told her she wasn't funny or 
not lovable and you know all these 
negative agreements and so he would tell 
her them she would say okay she would 
agree to it she would sign an invisible 
contract she would seal it click the 
stamp and deliver it to the universe 
right and that's what she thought of 
herself now 
I'm not blaming her ex by the way right 
we all relationships are complicated but 
just reading for her 
that is really where she was she had all 
of these beliefs and false agreements 
about herself that she made with her ex 
and they were still there so the divorce 
was still there and what's amazing about 
that is when you let false agreements 
with someone run your life 
they become your Guru and your master 
so her ex-husband 
was running her life was her master 
because everything he said she agreed 
she kind of made this agreement and she 
was conducting her whole life by so her 
ex was her Guru still ten years later 
and guess what they didn't even speak 
anymore 
she didn't like him and he was 
completely dominating her life right so 
the idea for her was this block of these 
false beliefs about herself and this 
control that she was still completely 
under and you know what's amazing is she 
didn't even have to call him to set him 
free she did she wasn't going to get 
anything from him she had to set herself 
free and really start to build up who am 
I what do I believe and build her own 
life force and in that strength then 
kind of raise her vibration and go oh 
wait a minute and attract someone else 
that was in similar vibration so that 
she could move on in her life so these 
false agreements really being 
traumatized as well right we get like oh 
my God this was so bad I'm so scared I'm 
traumatized it's like a trauma response 
where we kind of keep everything at Bay 
because we're waiting for that rug to 
get pulled out from under us right same 
thing you know we're still living in the 
past and we don't even realize it wow so 
her energy her divorce was so 
predominant in her field when you were 
reading her and so it's 
it's because she was tacitly agreeing 
with these false agreements you're ugly 
you're too old you'll never find someone 
you're too damaged and she was like yup 
yup yup yup and so so it's identifying 
like dear listener do you have false 
agreements and maybe it was your ex 
maybe it was your mom maybe it was your 
dad to little you maybe it was a teacher 
maybe it was a coach that said something 
and that little seed planted a giant ass 
Oak Tree in your head and grew and the 
branches grew and you and you think you 
are that but here's what's Sinister 
right those people probably never meant 
that that one thing was captured in your 
head right and that's how humans are we 
have a negativity bias and we're gonna 
seize the one thing we're gonna plant 
that seed and it's gonna grow into a 
giant oak tree so I love what you're 
saying and is there a way 
that we can understand what our false 
Agreements are 
absolutely and I love what you're saying 
and I also to add on that it's like 
Society can also put us in false 
agreements as well when you said I'm too 
old or I'm too this it's like Society 
can put us those in those agreements as 
well when it comes to love yes it can be 
coming from anywhere right and I love 
that you also said you know people 
aren't Sinister it doesn't have to be so 
Extreme as the divorce that this woman 
had experienced you know sometimes we 
don't even realize that it's for you to 
empower yourself to break these 
agreements right so you want to identify 
you know your agreements and and there's 
many ways you can do that I mean I think 
what we're also talking about is really 
going in and examining your thoughts and 
your feelings and part of that you know 
bleeds into this idea of connecting with 
oneself and one's own inner voice 
um you know the best way to to really 
just start to work with agreements is to 
do a free flowing free-form 
consciousness of journaling right where 
you can just and make it simple it it's 
you know I think sometimes tools that we 
hear all around is very complicated it's 
like yes throw some salt in a circle 
with some this and some lavender sprigs 
and then dance and do a jump in an ice 
bath and I'm like oh my God it's too 
much just right get a pen and a piece of 
paper keep it simple at the top what are 
some negative ideas or thoughts I have 
about myself just start with that just 
write that and then just let it go what 
am I looking at here and then you know 
set a timer for four minutes 
four minutes on your phone and you'll 
know them 
oh oh I know mine mine art I feel 
delivered I got them in my back pocket 
I'm working through them you know do you 
see my backpack I carry them around with 
me yeah yeah like heavy Stones I have 
them in my back pocket that's why I have 
such a such a big booty right now you 
know what I mean I have them all in my 
pockets foreign 
oh my gosh we all carry these false 
agreements around and I joke it's like 
right we've got Erica's booty we've got 
I don't have a big booty I wish I did so 
I'm gonna say it's in my rucksack you 
know in my backpack but we all carry 
around these false agreements right and 
write them down right what are the 
things and you know what they are and we 
know what they are and other people ha 
might even know what they are for us 
right I know in our practice we do with 
our one-on-one clients that you know we 
work with for a year we do a 360 
feedback process where we have them 
reach out to their friends and family 
their Village telling us why they think 
our client is hasn't met the right 
partner wow and so what's so interesting 
about this is we think that these false 
agreements or the things that are 
holding us back are just our dirty 
little secrets in our backpacks in our 
booties guess what 
that everybody knows 100 everybody knows 
and they can tell you you know what she 
doesn't realize how beautiful she is she 
walks around with her eyes down she has 
no idea who's looking at her because her 
ex told her she wasn't pretty or she was 
bullied for being you know the ugly 
duckling and whatever that stuff is 
people know like we think nobody knows 
we know so get your notebook out write 
down your false agreements people let 
them stare at you you know I want to 
just finish that also for the awesome 
listeners here just because if this you 
know podcast you're hearing this and it 
stirs something up and you get your 
journal and you write them down and 
you're like oh my God you know wow you 
know right there's so many or even I 
just never consciously looked at these 
so let me give you a quick quick tool 
just what to do from here okay so number 
one you're gonna look at these 
agreements and you may feel all kinds of 
feelings number one it's okay 
everyone has these agreements please 
don't be mad at yourself 
number one on the docket I forgive 
myself I know I'm a spiritual being 
having this Human Experience to learn to 
grow to evolve these are things these 
are part of my AP courses remember AP 
courses in high school these are part of 
my Advanced courses right here on this 
paper are part of my Advanced courses to 
move my soul 
forward in this life and to forgive 
myself for these right not not be angry 
at myself because we're going to 
automatically look at the paper and go 
oh my God what's wrong with me and guess 
what there is nothing wrong with you and 
in fact if you get that pen and paper 
and you write these down there is 
everything right with you because you 
are of the 99 of people that are willing 
to grow and change so or one percent of 
people I should say that was backwards 
I'm saying we were following you I knew 
what you were trying to say girl I'm 
saying it is so rare you know people 
that listen to this podcast I know are 
looking to grow and to to shift and 
change but a lot of people aren't 
willing to do that and are very set in 
their way so just writing these things 
down you are already cooking with gas 
and you're doing a great job 
so after that I'm just going to give you 
a quick tool is that 
as you go forward in your days after 
that I want you to see your list and say 
I acknowledge you I hold space for you 
little friend little soul within you 
right and as you go about your days I 
just want you to acknowledge I don't 
want to say catch yourself because that 
sounds negative but acknowledge when 
those Agreements are coming up right so 
like you know maybe someone invites you 
to something and you're like uh I'm 
feeling so gross and I don't look very 
good so I'm not gonna go right so let's 
just use that as a silly example and you 
would go 
oh wait a minute that's a false 
agreement that I'm not good to look at 
or I'm yucky or I'm you know no good so 
what you can do is take a moment close 
your eyes take a deep breath 
and I want you to touch your hand to 
your head and you're going to say cancel 
and then I want you to touch your hand 
to your heart and you're going to say 
cancel 
and you are basically out loud saying 
cancel cancel I cancel that out right it 
seems Elementary and simple but your 
words your thoughts your intentions are 
so powerful so if you think of something 
negative about yourself go oh I I see 
her there she is there's that little one 
coming out to play and you're just gonna 
say I'm going to cancel it and I'm going 
to cancel it cancel in my head in my 
mind cancel it in my heart and my soul 
cancel cancel and then move on with your 
day 
yes keep working cancel cancel it is 
amazing it sounds ridiculous oh my God 
saying cancel cancel yes saying cancel 
cancel because think about this if 
you're continuously saying I'm 
unattractive I'm unattractive I'm 
unattractive does that affect you yep 
how to yeah yes so we'll cancel cancel 
affect you yep because you're 
acknowledging it you're taking control 
of it you're saying I I no longer accept 
that type of talk about myself I cancel 
it I cancel it try it it's amazing how 
much it works I love that so much this 
is amazing thank you for that I'm going 
to be canceled cancel canceling a lot of 
those things in my rucksack really soon 
so 
um God this is so amazing I feel like I 
could talk to you for eight hours but 
let's tell us you just gave us this 
amazing cancel cancel tool what about 
you talked about some tools that we can 
use when we need to check in 
with our gut feelings about somebody and 
let's maybe open this up into the dating 
world right so it could be the dating 
World maybe it's a new friend maybe it's 
just a new human what do we do when we 
think so when you're saying check in 
with your gut feelings like gut feelings 
like oh my God I think this person's 
awesome or oh my God this person is 
giving me the heebie-jeebies 
so a huge I love that question and a 
huge thing and I'm sure this is going to 
resonate with a lot of people right now 
is they go 
I have a feeling and a thought about 
something is that my anxiety or is that 
my intuition 
is that my false agreement saying I'm 
never going to meet anyone or is that my 
intuition we have conflict within 
ourselves it happens to me it happens to 
us all we're kind of like oh that didn't 
feel right and then we're like wait is 
it because I'm afraid or is that real 
right so first and foremost you know and 
think about this guys how much you can 
look back and you're always like oh damn 
I knew that that person was not for me 
right dynside is always 20 20. but 
somewhere along the line you felt it you 
knew it right so the idea is to get 
familiar with what is fear and what is 
intuition right so look back on those 
situations and really kind of picture 
you know when did I get that red flag 
and the way that you received that red 
flag that's your intuitive voice 
okay so practice kind of thinking about 
gosh when did that happen I recently had 
this happen to me I got a big red flag 
about something and I'm like no no 
that's cool it's cool it's cool and it 
wasn't cool 
um and so now I you know once again I'm 
reminded what that inner voice sounds 
like right 
so what the best thing to do when you 
want to connect with your gut and your 
intuition is practice it not in the 
moments so let me explain you would um 
and I'm going to tell you some quick 
steps so the idea that you would do is 
you're going to set an alarm I'm going 
to tell you this is for beginners right 
or Advanced if you want some you know 
brushing up 
you're going to set an alarm on your 
phone 
for one time a day 
you choose is it 8 PM is it 8 A.M do you 
wake up for work at you know seven and 
it's you actually set it for you know 6 
55 or whatever you're gonna set an alarm 
on your phone for five minutes you're 
gonna go to a safe separate place in 
your home 
or your apartment you're going to sit 
down either on the floor on the floor is 
preferable so you sit up tall you're 
going to set an alarm on your phone I'm 
going to do five minutes for you guys 
okay and you're gonna close your eyes 
and you're gonna breathe 
and when you're breathing I want you to 
picture you have in your hand a flower 
and a candle 
and I want you to smell the flower 
in through the nose and then I want you 
to blow out the candle 
out through the mouth and the reason why 
I give you the flour in your candle is 
because a lot of people are going 
meditation she's telling us to meditate 
get out of here lady so use a visual 
like a flower and a candle and work with 
cooling down your mind and knowing what 
that feels like because when you're 
confronted in a moment with something 
and you're like is that my gut is that 
my anxiety is that what is that is that 
my intuition 
you begin to create a space within you 
that you're more familiar with if you're 
familiar with closing your eyes taking a 
deep breath and touching in 
when there's something that's happening 
and you can go let me take a deep breath 
going in 
okay yeah this does feel weird if your 
let me touch in is Juicy because you've 
been working the let me touch in muscle 
you know five minutes a day you're 
already cooking with gas so what happens 
is we go to go within and it's kind of 
confusing in there 
so you want to start to create this 
really good and really active connection 
with what does it feel like when I just 
take a breath and go inside 
it's kind of like when you go and visit 
a place and people are like you know 
tell me all about this place and you're 
like I haven't been there in a long time 
you know they're asking you questions 
about it you're like I don't really know 
I haven't been there in a while 
so you know getting confronted with a 
question it's like uh what does your gut 
tell you it's like I don't know I 
haven't really checked in there for a 
while 
so take a few minutes a day breathe 
and just think about a flower and a 
candle and you will start to get juicy 
with this inner place 
the other idea you can do is start to 
create a place within you that's a safe 
place I call it my safe house create a 
happy place vision for yourself that you 
can go to I did this work with someone 
last week I said what's your happy place 
and she had a porch swing as her happy 
place that was it it was important in 
her mind 
she created this quartz swing it 
overlooked a lake and she created this 
happy place and now when she's feeling 
stressed anxious or doesn't know what 
she feels she closes her eyes she does 
her breath and then she sits on her 
porch swing and there she can connect 
with herself right so start to create a 
happy space as you begin to work this 
breath and this five minutes a day it 
sounds so ridiculous but it's amazing 
and it works it is and I love what 
you're saying because 
it's our thoughts that work us up so 
much 
and it's anxious thoughts lead to 
anxious feelings so what you're teaching 
us to do to reconnect with our intuition 
is to quiet our minds 
inhale smell the flower exhale blow out 
the candle right quiet the thoughts get 
to a still place then you can hear and 
you can make certain that it's intuition 
not anxiety intuition not your crappy 
false agreement 
you nailed it and like what I love too 
is like you know sometimes the idea of 
meditation or quieting the mind it can 
feel so overwhelming so don't meditate 
just smell a flower blow out the candle 
don't meditate create a happy place in 
your mind that you can go hang out at 
for a minute it doesn't have to be for 
three hours a day just a minute you're 
in a stressful situation let's just use 
work say you're at work in a stressful 
situation 
step away for a sec take a deep breath 
and visualize your happy place go there 
and you will calm your kind of your 
whole system down in order for you to 
see the truth and I love doing that with 
dating because you begin to become 
strength and stronger and more clear 
from within and then you can really see 
and kind of illuminate the person that's 
really right for you it's so amazing 
that you're saying that I couldn't agree 
more I know you know a couple of weeks 
ago we did I did a podcast episode about 
you know the anxiety that I was feeling 
in my own life and the four sentence 
meditation that really changed 
everything for me in five days and it's 
the kindness compassion meditation where 
you picture the person who's giving you 
anxiety or fear or that you're in 
conflict with and again it's just being 
quiet with yourself and hell when you 
think when you start to get into it you 
can do it while you're walking down the 
street when that pit gets into your 
stomach and this is maybe a person that 
you have a false agreement with and you 
wish them four things to calm yourself 
ultimately may you be happy may you be 
healthy may you live with ease and what 
is it may you be safe 
um that's nice the person and this is 
for people that are giving you anxiety 
and what I also said is you can do that 
for yourself may I be happy may I be 
healthy may I be safe may I live with 
these what would help me to do that and 
so much of the success in life in dating 
in love in every way and this is what 
this beautiful spiritual medium Erica is 
telling us it starts with us 
it starts inside of us and isn't that 
incredibly empowering you guys I talk 
about you have the steering wheel of 
your life and here Eric is telling you 
the same thing you have the steering 
wheel to cut the Clutter to cut the BS 
to cut the things that people have told 
you these false agreements and to suck 
quiet your mind you were blessed with 
great intuition 
get rid of the monkey chatter and the 
monkeys that hop around in your brain 
Lindsay and I called them monkey Minds 
right the monkeys go 
and they jump around quiet that 
breathe in smell your flower I love this 
visual area is it good blow your candle 
out do the kindness compassionate 
meditation do whatever it is but bring 
yourself back to Center 
I I could not agree more I think that is 
so beautiful I love the meditation you 
shared because it dispels the anxiety 
right you get back to what is and what's 
real right true kindness compassion 
connection we're all in this together 
right so it kind of helps eliminate that 
and you know what's so amazing too about 
thinking about anxiety and what you're 
talking about is like you know anxiety 
is emotionally rehearsing for the very 
thing we don't want to have happen 
yeah have you ever done that you're just 
like oh my God I'm going into this 
meeting it's gonna be terrible they're 
all mad at me uh this is gonna be a show 
I don't know if I can curse on here yeah 
I'm sorry absolutely 
I should have asked you you know I have 
I curse like crazy I should have asked 
you beforehand um so I've kept it under 
wraps you know uh but but you know the 
anxiety we're just playing out a 
terrible situation A worrisome situation 
that hasn't even happened yet so the 
idea of getting yourself in the moment 
right now is what will help alleviate 
some of the anxiety and you may even be 
doing that going on a date are they 
gonna like me this isn't gonna go well 
all the past ones have been terrible we 
play out the very thing we don't want to 
have happen and so when you're doing 
that get in the moment Get Right Here 
Right Now into what is and what's real 
I love that I love that so much and 
tell us 
we all talk a lot about manifesting and 
your spiritual medium right and this is 
like oh let's manifest let you know and 
we we talk to all of our clients we 
who's your dream guy or who's your dream 
woman so tell us about 
you have a best tip for manifesting 
someone yeah what is that so wait really 
quick when you say who's your best man 
who's your best woman do they always say 
like a celebrity type person 
so we start out one of the 
transformative exercises that we do with 
our clients to help them really get to 
you know we call them elevator people 
like who because they elevate you yes 
who's a partner that you need versus 
what you want and so we ask them in free 
form describe your dream person in all 
of his or her glory and I have heard 
things like well you know I would like 
you know 
the Marlboro Man meets George Clooney 
like you know and like super visuals so 
to Bollywood film stars to do you name 
it well that's what I was gonna ask you 
like who's hot right now like are people 
saying Brad Pitt or is Channing Tatum 
the one like you know who's hot right 
now anyway I'm just oh my gosh curiosity 
but right who'd make your list who's the 
number one person if I'm like who's your 
celebrity crush me yes oh my gosh 
oh I have a couple but it's ever 
changing I really but also here's what's 
here's what's funny about celebrity 
crush with me is that I'll be like oh my 
gosh that guy is is so hot and then I'm 
like he's like 25 years old this is like 
creepy you know what I mean so all these 
celebrities are so young so I gotta like 
give me a minute let me I'll have to 
marinate on the older on the 
age-appropriate ones no you don't 
because it's this is what I tell my 
clients okay this is your dream person 
like I can say Theo James from White 
Lotus and Divergence and you'll probably 
be my son but can we just discuss I I 
like the guy and I'm forgetting his name 
this is the one that I think is the 
cutest guy on the planet right now he's 
like in all the the Rocky movies but the 
new Rocky movies oh Michael B Jordan oh 
my God is there a more beautiful man 
like I just think he's I think he's so 
hot so but like how he's like probably 
20 years younger than me like that's 
okay well I I think he's gorgeous and I 
love his Vibe so that would be my 
celebrity crush if I had to choose oh my 
gosh I love that yeah yeah um so if you 
know him you know no I'm just kidding if 
you know him help me manifest my way to 
him but right exactly the problem is I 
am extremely happily married so 
so now let's pretend yes 
you weren't what was your what is your 
best way and you can be married I'm 
kidding but yes our listeners you know 
who are single like what is their best 
tip for manifesting someone and for 
listeners who are happily coupled you 
can manifest different things in your 
life so listen into this one so so let 
me explain 
um in terms of manifesting there's you 
know we all know a lot of the steps so 
I'm not going to go over everything you 
know you kind of you can create a board 
I think there's two main components that 
are missing number one you have to put 
action into your manifestation right so 
you cannot just 
write yourself a million dollar check 
and you know sit on your couch and watch 
TV you have to put everything into 
action number one way I recommend doing 
that 
is writing on a piece of paper the 
alphabet down one end a b c d e f g like 
this all the way down 
you are putting at the top what you're 
manifesting and then the A through Z is 
going to be one thing on each line 
that you can actively do to show up for 
your vision okay so I'll give you an 
example 
um like you said someone that wasn't 
even in dating right say they're 
listening for different reasons I uh 
want to be a nurse and they're really 
want to be a nurse right but they're 
just they don't they're just hanging out 
it's like write your A through Z it 
would be looking at schools number one 
you know a b what are my prerequisites 
see what are the schools I like write 
down what do you need to do to create 
action right same thing you're 
manifesting I want the great love of my 
life you know what I mean a through z 
number one and number a excuse me or 
letter A call Bella you know get on our 
list yes right God's sakes number two 
find my agreement so I can move on 
number three start journaling number 
four do things I love right again use 
the alphabet you can use numbers but 
write down what you're gonna do about it 
and show up for that thing every single 
all day and I hope that makes sense I 
love that so it's not just 
manifesting and putting it on your board 
and then you know going you know 
watching Netflix eight hours a day and 
saying no to all these invitations that 
come your way because of your false 
agreements it is if I want to become a 
nurse if I want to find the lid to my 
pot what are 26 things that I can do A 
to Z on the left side of the paper that 
are going to move me in action towards 
getting what I want right be about it be 
about it be about it and you're showing 
you're creating momentum you know the 
universe just can see what you're doing 
right so it's not uh the universe is not 
manipulative and it's not like gray area 
right so you wake up you're about it 
you're doing everything you're 
manifesting your vision you're doing 
your actions it's like whoa universe is 
like yeah baby it's it you're in 
momentum 
so that would that's a huge component 
that I think people miss and then I love 
that necking component 
is feeling good about the thing you want 
feeling good 
so meaning sometimes what happens is 
we're manifesting a soul mate 
and every time we think of the soul mate 
we go 
but I don't know if this is going to 
happen and oh God I want it so bad but I 
I I don't know and we actually feel bad 
about the thing that we want 
and we actually start to squeeze this 
because we're like I'm in such lack I'm 
in Lac I'm in lack I'm a lack and it 
just I want it so bad but I it doesn't 
feel good and we actually shut the very 
thing we want out we don't even feel 
good about the thing we want because we 
go back to 
we go back to fear and we start it 
starts to backfire on us backfire it's 
like oh my God we say we want these 
things but we feel terrible about it 
right so my number one thing to do is 
create a vision in your mind that you 
can connect with that feels really 
freaking good and every time you think 
about the thing you're manifesting you 
go to that vision and that feeling so 
let me give you an example 
you close your eyes 
say this is for a man or a woman I'm a 
woman so I'm going to use woman you 
close your eyes you take some deep 
breaths right you do your smell smell 
the flower you blow out your candle you 
go to your happy place 
and you're manifesting a partner say 
it's a man and you imagine someone walk 
towards you you maybe don't even see 
their face and you just go in and they 
put their arms around you and you put 
your arms around them and you just give 
each other this Epic 
Soul healing soul-quenching hug and it 
just feels so good and they smell good 
and you're hugging them they have the 
build of someone you like albeit tall 
short you know whatever you like and it 
just feels so good and you know that's 
your person and then you hold that 
vision and it feels so good it feels so 
good to feel good about your vision and 
then you go yes thank you and then you 
say thank you and you leave your vision 
and you leave your happy place and you 
go on with your day so now when you 
think of your soul mate you go oh wait 
I'm not going to go into that fear-based 
I'm not gonna let it backfire let me go 
back to my vision I'm gonna close my 
eyes oh yes that good hug awesome and 
then put that in the universe then hit 
your A through Z and keep moving towards 
it 
and that you have to feel good about the 
thing that you're that you're 
manifesting because the universe again 
is very black and white do you feel good 
or do you feel bad oh you feel bad okay 
let's not go there 
right and so if you I love that so much 
and now if it's back to being a nurse 
then your vision could be you're sitting 
next to a patient with their hand on 
your hand on this patient's head and 
you're giving them comfort and they're 
looking at you with the smiles saying 
what would I do without you 
yeah and that's it and just leave it 
there because what's going to happen is 
your mind is going to go but when am I 
going to be a nurse but how is that 
going to be but I don't have the money 
to be a nurse I don't have the time 
don't worry about that just make sure 
you're clear with your vision and it 
feels good and whenever it backfires say 
that's all for now and back out of the 
vision don't let it backfire on you it 
doesn't mean you're not being in reality 
it doesn't mean you're not doing your A 
through Z but it means the vision feels 
good to you 
it means the vision feels good and I'm 
going to add one thing on there yeah 
please what I don't want any of you to 
do is I want you to know that whatever 
you want in life requires action like 
Eric is saying and it requires time 
right and sometimes you know it's like 
if I want to lose 10 pounds then you 
know day one that I eat really well and 
work out I'm like well why isn't the 10 
pounds off the scale right and I know 
you guys will all feel me on this one 
right we want instant gratification and 
you might be manifesting this for a day 
a week a month a year a decade it's okay 
it is okay I want you to know that we 
don't know when the universe is going to 
deliver the lid to your pot but if you 
continue to do the things and be patient 
and go back and get rid of your false 
agreements and imagine your good vision 
and take action and you know do the 
things maybe you need a dating coach 
maybe you need a course whatever it is 
that's what you need to do so really 
think about guys what it is I mean this 
episode couldn't be more freaking 
inspiring we're telling you the power 
exists in you and all you can control in 
this lifetime is you right you can't 
control if someone else likes you or 
doesn't like you and if they don't to 
hell with them you dodged a cannonball 
because remember it's Smart dating 
Academy we want you to be with someone 
who likes you just a little bit more 
than you like them and if they said no 
to a second date or a fifth date well F 
them we're done because they didn't meet 
our 5149 rule so this is going to take a 
minute or a long time so please be 
patient just because you imagine this 
big warm hug like Erica said and he 
doesn't appear tomorrow it doesn't mean 
oh it didn't work come on 
we call that in the spirit world Divine 
timing 
and we don't know when that's going to 
be no no and it's so funny I love this 
joke do you want to make God laugh 
tell it tell tell it your plans right 
it's like there is such a thing as 
Divine timing and you showing up and 
believing is just a beautiful 
affirmation of that and really just 
staying on your own your same team 
believing believing in your vision and 
keep moving forward with joy and that's 
why we talked about feeling good because 
it feels so good to feel good right 100 
well Erica tell us for a second if 
people want to know more about you 
um tell us where we can follow you thank 
you so much so yeah well first and 
foremost you can always follow me on 
Instagram which is spiritual medium 
Erica with a k 
um and I do all kinds of fun things on 
there so I'd love for you to join me you 
can go to Erica gabriel.com and know 
that is not a stage name I promise that 
is your reaction that is my real name is 
Gabriel e-r-i-k-a-g-a-b-r-i-e-l.com 
and you can hit that if you want to 
request a one-on-one reading and also 
that's where you can see the courses 
that I offer right so my course that 
just launched now is called the way the 
way and it is Spirit showing you the way 
to getting all the things that you want 
including finding your purpose finding 
your soul mate whatever it is that 
you're walking towards 
it is of course about identifying blocks 
and receiving tools to help you move 
through them so that you can get to 
where you want to go and you can use the 
tools for the rest of your life so you 
can see that on there and that's how you 
can hang with me I love that Erica thank 
you 
so much for being here and for sharing 
your gems I am inspired by you and I 
know we're gonna have you back again on 
the show so thank you and for those of 
you who are ready to make some changes 
do something okay do something we've 
given you a hell of a lot of tools today 
you've got this so in psychotic optimism 
and psychotic love I embrace you in that 
warm hug and I'm always here for you and 
I wish you the most amazing Week full of 
action towards finding the lid to your 
pot 
