there's so much when it comes to 
hormones especially hormones of 
attachment and what's happening to our 
body as we're aging when do we attach 
the most you know in our reproductive 
years it's during ovulation when we have 
peaks in testosterone and estrogen and 
then we enter into the ludal phase where 
it's predominantly progesterone but 
during those times of peak you know Peak 
ovulation we're most attractive 
scientific Studies have shown that we 
look our most attractive to a mate 
during those higher hormonal periods of 
higher hormonal concentration and so 
it's also the time where we're more 
receptive to finding a mate Andor mating 
you know having intimacy during those 
times as well and as we age those 
hormones start to decline so we have to 
be very aware using our brain our 
intelligence and optimizing our hormones 
so that we maintain healthy levels of 
hormones and don't find ourselves 
disconnected and apathetic and without 
desire 
