there's something unlovable about me 
there is something about me that means 
that men find me really attractive and 
then they find a reason to not want a 
relationship or to mistreat me and I 
experienced a bit of an I guess what you 
call it an Awakening PR to start in 
baggage reclaim where I talked out loud 
about these feelings I was having about 
myself and my relationship and found 
that I was inundated people were like 
you are talking about me you're talking 
about my life my experiences and I was 
like oh wow that's weird because I was 
thought I was a weirdo uh and it turns 
out there are a lot of us that struggle 
with feelings of Abandonment who have a 
pattern of being involved with emoly 
unavailable people and who on some level 
spend their lives people pleasing I got 
so much out of talking about my 
experiences online and connecting with 
people that I wanted to help at least 
one person avoid what I had been through 
or to help them navigate out of it and 
here I am all these years later and 
clearly I've helped more than a couple 
of people 
