[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
I'm so excited that you've decided to 
join us for another episode of the Smart 
dating Academy podcast I'm feeling super 
in my glow today and I hope that you are 
too and if you're not today's episode is 
going to be perfect for you because I 
brought my friend Angela gim on here who 
is the Visionary behind Sav Beauty and 
Angela and I are going to talk all about 
your glow right and everybody wants to 
have better skin if you're dude 
listening if you're a woman listening it 
doesn't matter what age we're all 
talking about a more youthful glowy dewy 
look yes you guys too and so we're going 
to talk about the glow from the inside 
and the glow from the outside so Angela 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast thank you so much Bella for 
having me it's such a pleasure oh my 
gosh well tell us about like tell me 
your journey to becoming an entrepreneur 
let's just hop right in okay well I was 
a concert pianist in a former life and 
um while on tour I was about to walk out 
on stage um in front of hundreds of 
people put on this quote natural lotion 
all over my body and started breaking 
out from it um during the concert and it 
was very humiliating so when I got back 
to the hotel room I took a look at the 
list of ingredients and was shocked to 
find how many um chemical fillers were 
in this quote natural 
lotion and um I don't know back then 
there weren't that this is over a decade 
ago Bella so there weren't a lot of 
natural clean skincare brands on the 
market and I want wanted something that 
was organic natural but it had to be it 
had to work um I my parent my mom is 
Korean and you know Korean women are 
obsessed with their skin care so 
obsessed obsessed yes and so I just 
wanted to create something that my mom 
would want to use that I would want to 
use I'm a New Yorker as we discussed 
earlier so it needed to be it needed to 
work in a New York minute and make you 
look like Flawless and this beautiful 
skin because I think skincare is 
self-care so that's really that was the 
beginning of my journey it literally 
started with an itch on stage oh my gosh 
and this was only so you were I mean 
this was 10 years ago and you put this 
lotion on that someone gave you you're 
like I don't want to look chalky or 
flaky I know I have those moments before 
I do media segments I'm suddenly like oh 
my God look at my knees and I'll take 
whatever's around and slap it on me so 
you did one of those and you just 
started to break out and you had never 
had issues well it no I've had I've I 
have very sensitive skin so okay um it's 
been a lifelong journey to find skin 
care and body care that makes you glow 
as you were saying earlier but without 
all of the chemical fillers or 
preservatives that were making me break 
out so um and actually it was it was 
well over a decade ago my daughter I 
remember remember it was around the time 
that my daughter was born that I started 
playing with lotions and potions in my 
kitchen she's now 14 she's a teenager 
now so oh my gosh yeah so that was 
really the beginning that's amazing and 
so is she using your skin care as well 
she is I think there are a lot of teens 
that use sa Beauty you know we have sa 
beauty is a natural skincare brand 
inspired by Korean beauty rituals um 
it's made here in New York and we have 
two spas in Manhattan one in Bangkok 
Thailand and um we a lot of our guests 
are teenagers believe it or not and men 
like we're seeing an increase in teens 
and Men come through the doors and both 
segments are becoming increasingly more 
interested in skincare and my daughter 
in particular what I'm seeing is her age 
group you know they're breaking out 
because maybe they're not taking care of 
their skin so we teach them how to wash 
their face 
at night um how to use peels gentle 
peels so that they are exfoliating their 
skin without um you know harming it at 
this early stage so there's a lot of 
education and and then for the men that 
are walking in they're you know they're 
very interested in how do I take care of 
my skin now um a lot of their questions 
is do I come in to get a 
facial after I shave before I shave you 
know so there it's it's very cute these 
two unexpected groups of people coming 
in now I'm so I'm I love that I and I 
think you're right I think as a society 
we're thinking more about longevity and 
we're living longer and kids are 
thinking about things earlier because 
they're they're influenced and 
surrounded by social media all day long 
so how much do you think 
um genetics play a role in this right 
like okay I you can look at your mom or 
your grandma yes like how much can good 
practice alter your 
genetics I think it is key to having a 
healthy glow I think you can do so much 
to counter genetics um meaning that 
let's say you're just you just have oil 
skin that breaks out and this is what 
your mom or your dad had and this is 
what runs in your family I there's so 
many things that influence your skin it 
can be 
environmental it can be um what you're 
eating in fact a lot of it comes from 
what you're eating we find a lot of 
people that are lactose intolerant or if 
they're eating too much sugar it shows 
up on their skin um I really believe 
that what how what you're going through 
in life also shows up on your on your 
face yes yes so stressors can exacerbate 
rosacea breakouts dry 
skin um so all of these things 
contribute 
tremendously you're so right and so I 
know most people listening probably 
including myself haven't had the 
opportunity to try your products now 
with that being said can you also and 
I'm sure we'll all want to by the end of 
this episode but can you tell us some 
things that you know while we're 
listening to this what are some things 
that we can do to improve our glow today 
whether that's the inside whether that's 
the outside so many of our listeners are 
single right and they're thinking about 
relationships and they want to feel 
better while they're dating or maybe 
they're in a relationship but they want 
to make sure that their relationship has 
that glow so talk to us about this I 
love that uh your question is very rich 
and there's a lot to tackle there so 
let's start with a philosophy that I 
think is very important um I think 
waking up with a glow is so essential to 
how you carry yourself through the day 
how and now we're since we're talking 
about living a single life attracting if 
you're interested in that attracting 
love into your life it starts with 
self-love right talk yeah so I think 
skinc care is your best accessory I mean 
I don't wear makeup I don't wear a lot 
of um Foundation I like for my skin to 
just glow because it really represents 
to me and I and I told you that sa 
beauty is all about um Korean beauty 
rituals and Korean women as early as ad. 
uh 9918 ad they were putting on they 
were taking care of their skin Radiance 
with things like safflower apricot peach 
oils um it was this um this philosophy 
that your inside is reflected on your 
outside so that's the foundation of 
savor Beauty and I think there are some 
beautiful rituals that I'd love to teach 
you on how you can take care of your 
skin from the inside out so one of them 
and this is a beautiful place to start 
is to wash your face at night and people 
often say well why do I need to wash my 
face at night why is is so important 
because how many of us sometimes get 
into bed and we're so dead tired and we 
just don't want to wash our face well 
something I'd like to encourage you to 
do if you're not going to go out at 
night and you're in and it's around 5 o' 
you're about to cook yourself dinner 
wash your F face at 5 o'clock okay and 
um this is a beautiful tip because 
you're not tired and you will take the 
extra step to take care of yourself to 
me washing your face is symbolic 
for um removing the toxins from your 
pores and your mental psyche right your 
soul so there's this beautiful Korean 
beauty ritual of double cleansing you 
start with an oil cleanser and you layer 
on top um you know and saber Beauty we 
have this Jasmine cleanser um oil 
cleansing oil and then there's the uh 
Pearl cleansing cream that you layer on 
top so the reason why I love starting 
with an oil cleanser is because the 
coconut and the Jasmine it pulls out the 
bad oil from your pores and then and it 
smells like a tropical getaway I love it 
it just the scent the aroma just takes 
you away for one second and then I love 
to um layer on top the Pearl cleansing 
cream which has these grape seeds 
exfoliators that just sweep away all of 
the dirt and debris that you've just 
pulled out of your pores and it's it's a 
beautiful way to just soften your skin 
and to get rid of all the toxins and 
once you do that you are more glowing 
and because if you go to bed with all of 
this makeup and dirt and debris in your 
pore you're sweat and sebum are having a 
party in your pores it breaks down your 
collagen with M which makes your skin 
age faster it makes you break out so you 
just want to clean all of that if you 
want to change your skin cleanse your 
pores and for those of us that might not 
have these products on hand is it okay 
to you know wash your face with the soap 
that you have or a standard cleanser 
like what would you say to someone who's 
like okay I want to start I'm gonna take 
baby steps so I love that question you 
can start anywhere with what you have I 
often think that life is sometimes you 
choose from the lesser of two evils so 
so I'd rather you wash your face than 
not then not exactly not now if you want 
to upgrade or elevate your life and your 
experience you can get you can I mean 
there are a lot of beauty products on 
the on the internet that you can choose 
from you know obviously sa be I use sa 
Beauty because I'm the founder um but I 
love it because we choose each 
ingredient for specific purpose so um 
you know Jasmine and coconut uh coconut 
the ingredients it's great for 
antibacterial purposes um coconut has 
lorc acid which for me softens the skin 
and it just breaks down like all of the 
dirt and debris so after I use it it 
just number one smells amazing but also 
I just feel like my skin is Velvet soft 
I love having very soft skin and I and I 
work for that you know so I like that 
product and then what I mentioned 
earlier um the Pearl cleansing cream I 
love that has crushed grape seeds to 
sweep away um all of that dirt and 
debris you can find any product and I'd 
rather for you to wash your face than 
not oh my gosh totally okay asking for a 
friend does using a makeup wipe count as 
washing your face yes okay asking for a 
friend named 
Bella yes and I think especially if 
you're on you know in Flight that's a 
great way to wash your face um you know 
I prefer to have a more eco-friendly way 
to do it and I like I like for women and 
men and teens to take the time to really 
enjoy it as a sensorial 
journey because if you're you're going 
to wash your face anyway you may as well 
use it as a moment to ground yourself be 
present and so sometimes I think a 
makeup wipe is not the best way to do 
that but I again lesser of two evils I 
agree I agree with you 100% there are 
days where one makeup wipe if I've been 
doing Media stuff doesn't take off all 
of the things and then I'll use a 
cleanser on my face and there's 
something really cathartic about the 
water on your face it's like it feels 
like a higher level more natural cleaner 
way I know the days where I do that I'm 
like H why don't I do this more often 
with cold water on my face or even just 
lukewarm and it feels so good so I 
couldn't agree with you more I I'm going 
to get away from just a makeup wipe so 
you can all keep me accountable on 
that that's awesome okay so we should 
wash our face at night to start and 
whatever that means before bed even at 
5:00 p.m. just as you're winding down 
your day wash your face okay what would 
come next so I think one thing that's 
super important for inside out glow is 
to drink your 
water um a lot of people don't I I keep 
by my desk um a glass of water at all 
times because you need to stay hydrated 
and then of course moisturizing your 
face so um I like to mist my face uh all 
saber beauty products are numbered so 
it's like one two 3 four five so you 
takes the guess work out so you missed 
step number two would be to miss 
yes and the reason why it's important to 
mist your face and with a toner 
non-alcohol toner is because it preps 
your skin for um penetration of your 
serums and moisturizers five to seven 
times deeper so I like that as well 
after washing my face I like to um mist 
my face with a toner because it also 
balances is your skin and you want that 
perfect balanced skin because it helps 
you to not get too dry and not to break 
out so you want to keep your skin be pH 
balance happy right then I like to put 
on step number three is the serum and we 
have three serums that you can choose 
from um you can choose from carrot Rose 
which has natural retinol we have 
pumpkin serum which is has zinc so it 
helps with 
hyperpigmentation and then we also have 
um the red raspberry which is very 
nourishing for drier skin so I like to 
massage that on my skin at night time 
and in the morning actually and in the 
afternoon and I think it just having 
that glow especially um helps with 
moisture but it also gives you like for 
example on the Go On The Go Glow like if 
you have a zoom meeting like you and I 
have you've got that just Natural Glow 
um I like to call it the glistening 
glow and then um I like to moist the 
step number four is I like to moisturize 
my face with uh the Truffle face cream 
that we have it's rich in vitamin B so 
it restores your Skin's 
luminosity and then you can finish with 
step number five which is the we have an 
eye cream caviar eye cream or 
pomegranate Eye Serum so that helps with 
the puffiness the dark circles and the 
fine lines that a lot of people have 
issue 
with okay tell me about the difference 
between a cream and a serum and who 
should think about 
what so I thank you again you asked such 
excellent questions that I just assume 
people know the answers to so the way I 
like to think about it and this is a 
Korean beauty philosophy is you want to 
layer your skin care the same way you 
layer your winter clothes so I know 
you're in Chicago you're going to layer 
going from thinnest to thickest you're 
not putting on your coat first and then 
you're long underwe wear you're going to 
put on the long underwear first and then 
the coat right or long underwear sweater 
and coat right so that's the same thing 
with um the philosophy of skin care so 
the toner is the first layer because 
it's the 
thinnest then you put on the spr on yeah 
that's the spray or a toning or or toner 
make sure you choose non-alcoholic 
because non-alcoholic non-alcohol toners 
because you don't want to dry out your 
skin unnecessarily a Serum is 
then less thick than a cream right so 
you're going to put on serum on next 
which is why we label it number three in 
the saber Beauty system and I love 
serums because the serums just give you 
extra layer of concentrated nourishment 
much like a vitamin for your skin so you 
might choose a vitamin C serum like our 
pumpkin serum has a lot of vitamin C um 
which gives your skin um also zinc for 
hyperpigmentation if you're concerned 
about brown spots or you might find a 
serum that has vitamin E for soothing 
nourishment so or for example you might 
find a serum that's concentrated with 
vitamin A like our carrot Rose serum for 
natural retinol which is which gives 
your skin cellular turnover then you put 
on your moisturization because it's a 
little thicker got it what a mo what a 
good face cream will do it will lock in 
moisture for the rest of the 
day got it so you should do a serum and 
then cream after so you can do an eye 
serum and an eye cream yes yeah an eye 
cream is usually you want a thinner eye 
cream because the the skin around your 
eyes is a lot thinner than anywhere else 
on your face so you just want a lighter 
fluffier eye cream which is why we whip 
our caviar eye cream so it's just 
lighter and then the way you put on eye 
cream properly is to dot it around your 
eyes with your using your ring finger 
and then I like to play the piano around 
my eyes like this concert Pi just to 
yeah just so that you're not a lot of 
people will put on their eye cream and 
drag it on and not be delicate so the 
piano lessons that your parents gave you 
you just put it on like this I love that 
and it feels so good too to do that I'm 
doing it here in case you're now we you 
know you can watch this podcast on 
YouTube or listen to it on all of your 
platforms so I was just piano my face it 
feels kind of good yes it gives you 
circulation yes I love that it's kind of 
calming okay this is great and this is 
and again this is B this is the Korean 
formula so in general Korean skin care 
uses these steps and for men and for 
women so there's nothing you would 
recommend differently for my husband 
Andy who is Caucasian right and because 
of that he's like I'm getting wrinkles 
when he like here and here and so he's 
getting more like oh my God right should 
I could do Botox I'm like I don't know 
if you should so well I think I think 
that that's why and I had said this 
earlier to you we have a lot more men 
coming into the spot something that men 
love is that the the skin care line is 
numbered 1 two 3 four five so if you 
were to tell Andy um use the serum he 
will probably tell you what number is 
that that's how guys think right so my 
partner he loves or I should say my 
fiance now oh congratulations thank you 
he loves the saber Beauty line because 
it's numbered so if I ever say hey I 
think you need some carrot Rose serum 
because your skin is looking a little 
bit dull he'll say what is that just 
tell me what number that is um so I 
think that's why a lot of men may be 
attracted to coming in for spas and to 
our line because numbered system takes 
the guess work out and that's what we 
did the saver the Korean beauty rituals 
are very daunting for a lot of people I 
know a lot of people are intrigued and 
very attracted to the Korean beauty um 
industry but it's overwhelming I think 
the New York Times called it the over 
whelming multi-step line which is why we 
sort of made it for the American woman 
and numbered everything and simplified 
everything so that it takes a guesswork 
out I love that Angela because I can 
walk into Sephora right or blue Mercury 
or whatever is in my neighborhood and 
it's so daunting because there's a 
thousand different products and that's 
why they're like well you should use 
this serum or this creamer this Ral I'm 
like oh my God overwhelmed walk out and 
I'm going to use my makeup wipe today so 
this is literally so I'm very much a 
skin care virgin very much a newbie so I 
love the fact that you have things are 
like one two 3 four five I must think 
more like a guy like show me exactly 
what to do and and I love that you're 
doing this for men as well and are your 
products unisex like could we use the 
same products for example absolutely 
yeah um I will give my partner a facial 
sometimes at night and I use all the 
same products they love the scent um 
it's a sensorial experience and um you 
know the reason why Bella I we numbered 
everything is because when I when I was 
working at the spa you know when we 
first uh took when we first launched 
people would come in and say Angela when 
do I put on my serum when do I put on my 
cream so I would take a big black 
Sharpie and I would just number it okay 
you you cleanse your face first one and 
then then you're going to do the toner 
two and then you I want you to put on 
the serum three and then I'd like for 
you to do the cream four and actually 
it's very interesting because we came 
out with our hyaluronic acid serum which 
is hyaluronic acid if you don't know it 
helps to boost moisture in your skin and 
hold it in and I remember my part my 
partner at the time fiance now he was 
like well when do I put this on and I 
would say well right before three he's 
like can you number it 2.5 please 
so now we have one 
2.5 no sorry one two 2.5 
three I love that your partner and I 
need to like have the same regime it 
sounds like would you please put a 
decimal on this um well you and yeah you 
my fiance and Andy need to do that it's 
it's just I think it really helps people 
to keep it organized people tell us that 
they love to see at one two 3 4 five in 
their in their beauty 
pantry I love that because we hear again 
newbie what is the difference between 
hyaluronic acid and retinol like what do 
we need to be thinking about like if I 
need X tell me about this because I know 
even for someone like me people are like 
you don't do all this stuff I'm like I 
don't I would love to become more 
educated around it but I just never had 
the time and so here you are to help 
educate me as well as our listeners so 
what should we need to do 
what should we do for staying youthful 
and glowy do we need to do both of those 
things well okay so I like to do 
everything and I take it very seriously 
because I believe that skin care is a 
marathon not a Sprint and I think as we 
gain wisdom years as I like to say um 
it's like waking up with great skin is 
just it makes you feel beautiful you 
know and confident I think when you have 
really good skin you feel very confident 
and the fact that you know I don't need 
to use a lot of foundation I just it's 
it's very symbolic for not needing to 
hide it just this is who I am this is 
what my skin looks like I feel good in 
the Skin I'm In you know it's very it's 
a very spiritual slash inner outer 
Radiance attitude right um so so you 
asked what's the difference between 
hyaluronic acid and retinol and I'd love 
to explain it because I think it's 
important to understand why you need 
both for your skin so hyaluronic acid um 
is great because it hyaluronic acid 
attracts a thousand times its weight in 
water to plump and hydrate your skin so 
it's a great way to boost moisture which 
is what keeps your skin feeling elastic 
and flexible and soft and supple so it 
safeguards collagen collagen is what 
keeps your you know when you see a baby 
with all that baby fat that's collagen 
and as we gain wisdom years um we 
deplete in collagen and so the skin 
becomes a little bit more thin and hot 
and you lose a lot of that elastic 
buoyancy in your skin so that hyaluronic 
acid is your the hero to um to solve 
that problem and then retinol is vitamin 
A and the way that you can think of 
retinol is vitamin A is a stands for 
acne and it also stands for aging so um 
retinol is great to turn over your skin 
because as we gain wisdom years again 
your skin stops exfoliating at the same 
rate as when you were younger so that's 
why you'll get more age spots that's why 
your skin feels drier because youve got 
this like top layer of dull skin cells 
because it's just not exfoliating as 
fast so you want the retinol what that 
does is it helps with cellular 
regeneration which is a fancy word for 
it just exfoliates and renews new cells 
that look youthful and vibrant and vital 
right 
so that's your beauty 101 Bella damn 
there's a lot for me to learn here 
clearly um I do that make sense so does 
that make sense why retinol would be 
that's the skincare 
solution to if you have aging concerns 
or acne concerns because you want 
to ex um expedite the exfoliation 
process the cellular regeneration 
process I love that no this is so great 
and I really appreciate you giving me 
the you know skin care for 
kindergarteners I'm sure you're all 
horrified at my prac no these are great 
questions I love them them um and with 
these Korean skincare regimes and Sav 
Beauty which I love everything you're 
saying do you find that people don't 
have to do as much cosmetic stuff like 
botox fillers or is that kind of like 
the 102 of skin care then interesting 
because I asked one of my friends when I 
saw her recently I said um and I think 
she just turned 50 maybe she's 49 she 
looked fantastic and she was super glowy 
and I said oh my gosh I just love the 
way you look you know I hadn't seen her 
in about 10 years so I was just like you 
look younger what's your secret and she 
said sa her beauty and Botox oh my gosh 
wow so she um you know so I think people 
they find what makes them feel 
comfortable they they do I think it's a 
very person personal decision what makes 
you feel comfortable some people just 
choose an all natural route and they 
look gorgeous but they moisturize their 
skin they wash their skin they take 
really good care of themselves they're 
happy they have that glow I have a 
friend who doesn't use any Botox and 
she's just using saber Beauty and she 
just looks phenomenal but she's one of 
the happiest people I know she's so 
grateful for everything in life she 
doesn't talk behind people's back she's 
not she's not a complainer she's one of 
she's probably the most positive friend 
I have and she looks so young and happy 
and vibrant and everyone's really 
attracted to her energy you know um so I 
think everybody I think you know I think 
I say that part of the I think um secret 
to youth is looking for what you're 
grateful for and 
um this carries you so much further than 
you would realize you know it is it is 
an elexir Fountain of Youth 
secret you know it's it's so true and 
you know my friend Jenny Stevens who is 
a coach and therapist she recommends she 
recommended for me to do two pages right 
gratitude 100% And guys once you get 
used to doing it it's a little addicting 
to sit down and write all the things 
that you're grateful for be and it's 
awesome and I've been doing this for the 
last month and I know I've been talking 
about it a lot but now I'm doing it and 
on the other page what she has me do is 
what she calls the dump right the things 
that didn't go well get them out of your 
head and dump them out on the paper just 
things that like irked you where the EG 
didn't go well do your dump page do your 
gratitude page and what I found by doing 
gratitude obviously it's great but doing 
the dump in conjunction also helps get 
out the ick kind of like we get the ick 
out from our skin like you first said 
when you're washing away the toxins of 
your day both physically mentally we've 
got to get rid of the toxins as well so 
doing a dump page has been super helpful 
and it's funny I did a dump page two 
weeks ago and I had said something to my 
mom which I was probably I was busy and 
it just came out shorter and edgier than 
I wanted it to and she's my best friend 
but she's my mom and sometimes we can 
just take on that tone and that came out 
on my dump like I don't like how I got 
short with her about this when I 
finished my dump page and my gratitude 
page I sent her a text hey I was in a 
rush and I feel like I was mean when I 
text did you or when I said that to you 
today I'm not proud of what I did or my 
tone I'm really sorry and she picked up 
the phone and she called me she's like 
what are you talking about I didn't even 
sense that but for me I had to process 
it and I texted her anyway so I love the 
I love the Gratitude 100% to Glow 
getting rid of the I with the dump and I 
love what you said about your friend is 
the most positive person and you know 
and she doesn't talk about people badly 
behind their backs and listeners if 
you're thinking about that it is so easy 
to get caught up in talking about 
other people right it's really easy but 
usually when I find myself tempted to do 
that because we're all human at the end 
of the day think about when you're doing 
that you have a mirror and you're 
pointing it outward right and usually 
what's going out is what you're feeling 
inside about yourself if you're thinking 
bad things and saying bad things about 
someone else it's usually stuff that 
we're not loving about ourselves instead 
when you find yourself doing that think 
about the mirror pointing outward and I 
want you to visualiz putting your hands 
on that mirror and turning the mirror 
gently inward towards yourself and say 
what am I not happy with right now yeah 
I love that you said so many amazing 
things and I first of all I just want to 
acknowledge um how you made it right for 
yourself with your mom and I think 
that's so beautiful I agree with you 
100% that you know just how we need to 
clean out all the dirt and debris and 
toxins from our pores we need to do the 
same and not only focus on what we're 
grateful for because part of that 
process is being 
real and what's not working and you know 
um saber Beauty has a self-care planner 
that it's called called my next 90 
days and we do just that there we it's 
it's a book actually it's right here oh 
and and here and and I have it by my 
side at all times you know there's a 
manifest wheel where you bring out your 
beauty Brilliance and balance for a 
holistic life and balanced life and you 
get to create your 90day vision here and 
some of the questions are you know 
what's flowing in the last 90 days what 
did I learn in the ne last 90 days and 
what's not flowing in the last 90 days 
but then the last question I think is 
really important what do I want to do 
the same or differently in the next 90 
days so what I love about your story 
with your mom is that you were able to 
process it write it down do a dump and 
then what what are you going to do about 
it you know like and I think that's the 
positive I call it focusing on the 
gorgeous chaos right it's like you know 
our life can be gorgeous chaos but you 
acknowledge that some things are not 
going well and then you focus on what's 
gorgeous and you take it into the next 
iteration of your next 90 days for 
example that's what we have you do in 
this in the self-care planner so I'm a 
big proponent of that as well and I 
think you know touching upon what you 
were saying about my friend 
um I agree with you that I think it's 
important to process and that's what 
friends are for but I also think it's 
really important what you said that like 
how we see anything is 
everything and how you see anything is a 
reflection of how how you see it because 
this is your experience right so um and 
I think if you practice this Bella in 
your life then because I I will not be 
friends with anybody who gossips I I 
believe that we are here to help each 
other process but there's there's a 
point where it becomes gossiping and 
there's a point where it becomes 
unhealthy right when it's just pointing 
out someone else's flaws and and you 
don't do any reflection of what's my 
50% um I I just find that if you 
practice this clean what I call the 
clean inside living um it becomes a way 
of life and you attract very different 
experiences into your life life as in as 
a 
result um you know in 2020 I was going 
through a 
divorce and I started to I launched 
myself into the dating world as a single 
mom in Manhattan which is very 
challenging and I've just practiced um 
you know clean inside living I call it 
spiritual intelligence where I see 
everything as a lesson every experience 
that I have in life negative or positive 
and especially actually negative because 
sometimes that's even more valuable 
because if you can look at it as what 
did I learn from this what's my 50% what 
do I own you just become so in tune with 
your spiritual intelligence and the 
higher your higher self and what you 
were meant to learn and I think as I was 
dating I I learned a lot from the guys 
right they would say that a lot of um 
the women in Manhattan because there's 
my partner my fiance says that there's 
like it's like 80% single women in New 
York city so it's very competitive in 
the dating world and it's it's can be 
demoralizing for women it's hard it's a 
hard City it is a hard city and what I 
heard a lot from the men over and over 
again was that you know the women that 
they were dating were 
angry jealous 
desperate and um they were scared they 
got scared off by it because there was 
this General energy of um I'm mad at my 
divorce I'm not you know they weren't 
and and they were describing it in a way 
where it was like these women are 
vicious they're they're out for 
something it's an energy thing they 
could feel it but I knew deeper down 
that a lot of the women are still just 
healing from past experiences right and 
I think a lot of the way that we can 
heal maybe a little bit faster because I 
think you do need to process it and you 
shouldn't ignore what you've been 
through is plugging into that spiritual 
intelligence which is okay let's start 
even though it's really hard for me to 
do this let's start with what you just 
said earlier Bella we need to take that 
mirror and point it inside and say okay 
what do I own here what's my 50% and 
that's really challenging to do and it's 
not just for dating it's for everything 
in life your work your relationship your 
every relationship you have friends 
family daughters sisters parents your 
lover 
whatever it's just asking yourself what 
do what can I own it's not over owning 
and it's not under owning it's just what 
can I clean up on my side of the 
sidewalk and then what were my lessons 
learned what am I learning here and then 
what can I focus on what can I do the 
same or differently for the next it's a 
very empowering practice right and I 
think once and and I do think because I 
had that a lot the reason why these guys 
were confiding in me this way is they'd 
say well you're you're glowing they 
would actually say you're glowing and at 
first I thought it was the skincare and 
and maybe it does have something to do 
with skincare but I course it 
but I think it has to do with also this 
attitude of yeah I'm not going to focus 
on the the things that didn't go well I 
want to focus on the lessons I've 
learned and what I'm going to do 
differently this next time you know I 
love that I think it's really important 
um for you and it's the greatest act of 
self-love so we've talked about skincare 
being self-love and turning it from a 
chore of washing your face into 
sensorial experience of taking out the 
dirt debris from your skin and yours 
your spiritual psyche right and the same 
thing can be said about what we're 
talking about now doing that inner 
self-work because it is work a self-work 
it's taking out the dirt and debris 
cleaning up your side of the sidewalk 
you know cleaning up your your 
proverbial skin and then just reflecting 
the radiance of what did I 
learn and how am I going to take care of 
this for myself in the future right and 
what am I going to do the same or 
differently I love yeah what am I going 
to do the same or differently and the 
self-awareness of it all is so 
empowering and it's really beautiful and 
it's super attractive it's very 
attractive when you can have that level 
of connection to your higher self and 
spiritual intelligence awareness you 
know it's really really I'm telling you 
Bella it's very beautiful and that's 
what I think when I was talking about 
one of my good friends that's what she 
has in Spades and by the way she's been 
married for 25 years and they act like 
newlyweds oh I love that and they're the 
only people that I've ever couple I've 
ever met that's like in that honeymoon 
phase 
still it's funny this week's podcast 
episode maybe for you guys by the time 
you're listening to this it's going to 
be uh several podcasts out was with Dr 
Helen fiser who is amazing and an 
biological Anthropologist and she 
studied men and women and relationships 
through fmri Chambers and how we fall in 
love and how we stay in love and one of 
the things that she said about happily 
married couples is we have what's called 
positive Illusions about each other 
right it's not delusions but it's we 
tend to over focus on the positive and 
we underfocus on the negative right it's 
it's like so your friends that have been 
married for 25 years they continue to 
look for the good and they're kind of 
like nah okay whatever with the bad 
right and most good relationship 
researchers if you're in a healthy happy 
relationship I am not talking about 
those of you who have been in toxic red 
flag relationship it's good it's healthy 
it's the kind of relationship we would 
put you in at Smart dating Academy it's 
continuing to focus on the positive and 
just having a strategy to deal with that 
15 to 20% that you don't love or you 
differ or you argue about my husband 
Andy and I have been married for 26 
years oh my gosh oh congratulations 
that's beautiful thank you and it's 
really it's important to continue to do 
that because especially as women right 
we've got diffuse awareness and meaning 
men have more one track minds because 
you know 200,000 years ago they're job 
was to sit in a damn tree and wait for a 
buffalo with the bow and arrow and shoot 
the Buffalo right whereas we had to like 
make sure that you know are there any 
Marauders in The Villages do all the 
other women around here like me because 
all the men are out in the jungle 
hunting Buffalo do we have enough 
mangoes like all of those things so 
women we tend to pay attention to 
anything that might be going wrong right 
and so and that's what leads to that 
negativity bias and we can become more 
critical and look at the things that are 
wrong it's not because we're bad people 
again check in with self-awareness is 
this something that's really important 
and am I focusing on the negative can I 
flip to focusing on what's good right 
because the bottom line is there's 
always going to be something that's not 
good no relationship will ever be 
perfect and I love what you said Bella 
as long as you're in a healthy happy 
relationship overall overall guys not 
red flag not toxic not abusive okay 
that's get out of that right there's 
always going to be you can it's I always 
say life is like a party you can focus 
on many many different conversations and 
activities and the good and the bad and 
the ugly but I think what you just said 
was so spoton it's really important to 
blow up what is working the gorgeousness 
right and focus on that and then dump 
the ick and then have a cleanup session 
for the ick right look at the ick and 
say what was my role in this yes right 
can I act differently hi Mom I'm sorry 
right your thing right because then the 
ick isn't an ick anymore and the next 
day it goes to your gratitude list so 
it's this good virtuous cycle that can 
happen in this so Angela this was such 
an amazing conversation I knew it would 
be good but it was even more Soulful and 
educational than I thought it would be 
so you've exceeded my glow expectations 
for the day and for that I'm grateful 
and smart daters listening to this I 
know you love this as much as I did so 
I'll put a link to Angela's website to 
save her beauty in our show notes so 
make sure you check it out because she's 
been all over the place and all of the 
media voted you know best skin care here 
and there and there and you can be damn 
sure I'm going to be trying these steps 
one two 3 4 five ASAP so I'll report 
back on how that goes so until next week 
get ready for Peak dating season ladies 
and gentlemen because it is arriving 
shortly if you need some help around 
that ping us go to Smart dating Academy 
fill out a form we'll do a session with 
you we'll make sure you're in good shape 
for Peak dating season so all the best 
to you until next week Angela thank you 
again and you so much for having me have 
a beautiful love filled 
week 
