[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back I could not be 
more excited like jumping out of my skin 
excited about this episode today because 
I will tell you you have asked and we 
are delivering ladies this is for you or 
maybe men you know you might want to 
perfect your summer face too because we 
don't discriminate here right color and 
products are for everybody but I will 
tell you I brought on one of my favorite 
human beings for those of you who work 
with us in our one-on-one coaching 
program or you've taken our makeup 
webinar love lab called perfect your 
look for zoom and Beyond I introduced to 
you a celebrity in her own right my 
right hand makeup artist Anissa sabovich 
who is awesome and is going to tell us 
today how we can perfect wait for it our 
summer face and our summer look Anisa 
well welcome hello Bella and hi everyone 
thanks so much for having me I 
absolutely love what I do I hope that 
relays to our clients and I love 
teaching and I love informing I don't 
like to keep the secrets like if I know 
it and I know how to incorporate it I'm 
going to teach it to you I'm going to 
show you and let's do it I thank you for 
that lovely intro I really appreciate it 
oh my God you guys Anissa is the best 
and smart and funny and gorgeous inside 
and out so if you have not yet come to 
work with us one-on-one just call 
follow our insta stories and we always 
post the fun that we have in our photo 
studios because Anissa has worked with 
me I picked her up at a photo shoot 
um I'll tell you that story at the end 
so stick around for the end but she does 
all of the makeup for our clients that 
come in for our photo shoots and it's 
the most Glam fun amazing day it's one 
of the highest highs of the dating 
process it's my favorite day to go in 
see our clients see our team so Anisa 
creates the magic along with Michelle 
who's our photographer so she's gonna 
tell you right now because we're doing 
how many summer shoots have we done a 
gajillion already discount I've lost 
count and we're like fully booked next 
week and the week after and the week 
after so we're going to talk about 
perfecting your summer face and look so 
okay in general and of course I'm here 
learning from you Anisa what's the 
difference difference between a winter 
look and a summer look I'm here to share 
so think about winters so we're in 
Chicago y'all like it's not a pretty 
winter no one's loving it but winter 
typically we want to do like heavier 
right so we think just in general 
heavier layers of clothing but it also 
kind of translate over into our faces so 
heavier moisturizer heavier Foundation 
we need a little more coverage that 
summer glow the sun Tans are fading away 
her Skin's getting a little dry so we 
typically tend to go heavier-handed in 
the winter than we do in the summer 
summer again it's super hot so we're 
just kind of keeping it Light fresh easy 
breezy beautiful Chicago summer girls 
I love that okay so I'm gonna start out 
with the quote that I know you say all 
the time good makeup starts with good 
skin okay so tell us about our canvas 
our face our skin what do we need to 
know for this summer and while the 
weather is warm I would love to thanks 
for asking so yes this is my coined 
phrase I constantly say this so 
oftentimes a client will take a seat and 
she's like oh my skin is just okay well 
so my question I'm like I'm gonna throw 
it back at you what do you do to take 
care of your skin well what does that 
entail do you hydrate 
sometimes okay do you wash your face 
daily you know I'm so big about this so 
big about this is this yesterday's 
makeup because it's looking a little 
janky and I'm very forward as you all 
that have met me know I intend to be 
super forward but with good intention 
from a place of love we everything we 
say is our dating Academy is a place of 
love right girlfriend this is 
yesterday's face I can tell okay we all 
have our rough nights I get it but let's 
do something to take care of our skin so 
those steps look like simple easy wash 
your makeup off cleanser just get 
comfortable anything typically 
lightweight if you tend to be a really 
dry skin you're going to want to go for 
like a heavier cleansing balm something 
like like that just take take today off 
at the end of the day remove today's 
makeup after that hydrate throw a little 
exfoliation in there exfoliation can be 
simple it's not super invasive it's a 
quick extra like two minutes to your 
skincare regimen you can do it like 
twice a week but it makes a difference 
so summertime every every couple weeks 
your skin renews itself so what happens 
is we're getting these dead skin layers 
on top of dead skin new skins growing on 
top of old skin Slough that away so 
you're getting like the good skin the 
pure like virgin skin if you will 
underneath so Slough it off an exfoliant 
could be like little beads or it could 
be a chemical exfoliant they have these 
cute little pre-moistened like 
towelettes 
do do rub it on your skin that's it 
we're done okay I was about to ask you 
I'm like okay I'm gonna have this is a 
confessional today for Bella Gandhi 
um not the heaviest makeup wearer as 
everybody who knows me knows but I have 
a question 
pardon but stepping up your game for 
sure stepping up my game because Anissa 
is around me to help me she's like you 
need to step it up and I always listen 
to Anissa so when you know after a day 
you know whether it's been on camera or 
just a regular day I'll use a good 
makeup wipe to get my makeup off and 
then an eye makeup remover do I need to 
come back with cleanser with soap and 
water or is that enough yes you should 
okay with an extra cleanser so the make 
things are awesome thanks for asking 
great question the makeup wipes are 
wonderful lovely they are just taking 
the makeup off well now you have a 
residual leftovers from the white 
and you have to go in and wash that off 
to get your skin like squeaky clean so 
the reason you want your skin 
the reason you would want your skin 
squeaky clean is so that when you apply 
your skincare your serum your 
moisturizer your skin is absorbing all 
the goods from your skincare instead of 
having to work through that layer of 
makeup remover 
okay perfect so use your makeup wipe and 
then cleanse exfoliate hydrate okay and 
then we're talking about it's the Sun so 
we need sunscreen on our face at all 
times correct correct often times it 
will get there so I'll give you a little 
a little teaser a little sneaker yeah 
yeah please give us all together we're 
making our way towards like summer face 
summer complexion and it doesn't have to 
be like a heavy a heavy Foundation it 
could be a BB cream it could be a CC 
cream but definitely at some point in 
your regimen incorporate an SPF if 
you're going to be out in the sun and 
you know you're going to be out there 
for a prolonged period of time let's 
kick it up to like 50. if you're just 
taking a walk or going out with your dog 
or running out to run errands the 
minimum is 15. sometimes you guys these 
like products that are targeted towards 
like a quote-unquote summer face already 
have like an SPF 15 or an SPF 20. that's 
fine that'll do the trick as long as 
you're not outside for a prolonged 
period of time if you are just throw an 
SPF 50 in before your day and there you 
go 
another video 
warm but wait there's more but wait 
there's more 
um so personally this is a this is a 
two-way confessional I wasn't prepared 
for this but here we go 
after dark behind the freaking scenes 
here 
full disclosure I don't like to tan my 
face okay I am a sun worshiper I love it 
I love being tan but I don't like to tan 
my face because we all know the age-old 
stories of what it really does to our 
skin right we're getting wrinkled no 
one's getting younger out here and I 
just I want to keep them at Bay it's 
okay they creep in and it's fine but I 
just like to prolong the aging process 
and keep it at Bay what I do is I 
actually don't tan my face at all so if 
I'm laying out for example if I'm with 
my kids at the beach or with friends I 
will put 50 on reapply it regularly at 
SPF 50. reapply it regularly well guess 
what once I'm out of the sun my face is 
super pale and doesn't match the rest of 
my body you ready for it here's the 
secret self tanner 
self tanner on my face so my face 
actually never sees the Sun 
oh because you're covered in 50. and 
maybe a hat and sunglasses and all of 
the things but then to keep my skin tone 
even with the rest of my body so my body 
will get tanned the neck down but my 
skin I like to protect it from the Sun 
my complexion I should say I like to 
protect it from the Sun so I'll just 
even it out post sun exposure with a 
little sunless tanner so a little self 
tanner and I like to apply a lot of them 
you can apply with your fingertips or 
they come with like a glove or a mitt 
again another one of my little tricks I 
like to use a fluffy makeup brush and I 
just blend it over apply it usually it 
stays on overnight 
your your bed sheets are a little yucky 
in the morning but I mean tomorrow's 
laundry day anyway and then toss it in 
the wash your face is nice and tan you 
rinse it off in your tan and evens out 
and it just stays like that for how many 
days it stays oh it lasts about a week 
oh wow even if you work out or you're 
sweating outside you're working out 
you're sweating you're still cleansing 
you're still exfoliating it's still 
gonna last when it starts to fade you 
hit it with a round two oh my gosh I 
love that okay so that's your secret so 
you're not walking around with the white 
face and a brown body right and white I 
mean white compared to you for you 
because it's different I'm different 
mismatch is the right way to look at it 
so a self tanner available in all shades 
by and large all shades usually it's 
just they'll have most companies 
marketed like a light or a dark it's one 
of the two it just depends it depends on 
how dark the rest of your body gets or 
how dark you'd like your the skin on 
your face to be okay that's great and 
self tanner 
um you can also put it on your legs if 
your legs are inordinately white like 
mine 
um right you can put a self tanner on 
there as well right so always tease like 
you know my my winter skin my winter 
coat I'm very very very fair and I love 
it and I embrace it but in the 
summertime I'm like I I want a little 
Sun we all want to be that sun goddess 
come the summer month and here in 
Chicago I mean we have a very short 
three months of summer so we want to 
maximize 
I mean if this hasn't changed your world 
already it's changed mine I mean for 
God's sakes the sun is out but put on 
self tanner okay episode over game over 
let's go I mean okay my world has just 
changed for the better so now let's go 
we know our face is our canvas we know 
how to keep ourselves out of the sun put 
on the SPF clean yourself people know 
last night's makeup I can't even believe 
that but that's a whole nother episode 
in studio on the street I will call you 
out oh damn okay so now summer makeup 
right the first thing you'll always say 
is keep it light it's summer right keep 
it light keep it fresh think we're not 
masking anything it doesn't have to be 
heavy or a mask like just like I keep 
using metaphorically I keep using the 
layers that we have to bundle up in the 
winter so you've got your scarf you've 
got your hat you've got your gloves 
you've got your tank you've got your 
hoodie we don't need all this in the 
summer we just want to be fresh and free 
and clean and free of those layers same 
rule applies as it does with wardrobe in 
the winter we can metaphorically use 
that for our skin also in the summertime 
it's hot out we all know ladies we want 
to throw on a summer dress we just want 
to be easy breezy keep it lightweight 
same exact rule applies to our skin so 
think minimalistic okay Golden Goddess 
if we're taking care of our skin if 
we've already got our self tanned around 
we're already evened out we need a 
smidge and these are technical terms 
just a little touch of concealer maybe a 
little liquid blush to throw it up I 
love liquid blush here's why it tends to 
just blend right into the skin and it 
lasts all day we're gonna get to making 
your makeup last for the day and we were 
just talking about this Bella 
um but just keep it light keep it fresh 
you want everything Blended in and not 
not a lot less is more less is more 
these are this is the motif for Summer 
Skin and perfecting your summer face 
okay so let me recap what we're talking 
about summer makeup okay so now we're 
saying Tinted Moisturizer I love that 
that is 100 what I use and I have an SPF 
50 in mine and I will tell you I don't 
go anywhere without it I use it in the 
winter if I'm not doing you know if I'm 
like running around in my daily life 
Tinted Moisturizer is the bomb and it 
gives you that kind of glowy dewy look 
because it's part moisture there's SPF 
and a little bit of color it doesn't rub 
off everywhere and in the summer like 
Anise is saying you want light because 
you will Sweat Right because we want you 
moving you guys hear me talking about 
happiness and exercise and being outside 
for our mental health you want a face 
that doesn't melt off so we don't want 
layers that are melting off so use that 
Tinted Moisturizer if you need it over 
your self tanner because your face is 
now going to match your body right light 
concealer right nothing and then liquid 
blush does that mean cream name or an 
actual liquid so there they come in a 
few different varieties markets have I 
mean where blushes it used to be just a 
standard powder blush compact those days 
are gone blush is just blowing up in 
blush is really the pop that you want in 
the summer 
um alert alert guys summer summer blush 
blushes everything this summer this is 
the trend so your blush a liquid blush 
is just that it usually comes with the 
pump or it comes in a wand but it is a 
liquid formula that's distributed 
through a tube or a pump the way I like 
to apply it you know one of my favorite 
tools always is a beauty blender so I 
like to for example one with a pump that 
I use on set with a lot of our clients I 
will pump it right onto a beauty blender 
and just press it into the skin and it 
truly is that like fresh glow from 
within that's exactly exactly what it is 
and I like to do a light wash on the 
cheek and then guess what you can use 
that same blush on your lips you can use 
it on your eyes like I'm all about 
products that are one hit wonders like 
give me multiple uses for it and I'm 
sold oh my gosh I love that products 
yeah I love that and one of the things 
that I know you talk about and I know 
I've been guilty of and then and I now 
know better is that everyone's skin 
tones change to your point about being 
pale in the winter sun goddess in the 
summer right and even if we're taking 
all the Care in the world our skin is 
still going to shift I know I have to 
have different summer skin products than 
in the winter because I get really light 
in the winter so my winter Foundation 
shade is darker than my summer shade so 
just know that you're gonna have to and 
you might have to adjust your skin 
Shades is that right definitely 
definitely and that's normal that's 
typical that's standard don't feel bad 
about what's wrong with me it's totally 
normal I'd say 85 to 95 of my clients 
tend to feel this that like how come the 
same shade it just works for me two 
months ago well there's no sun now so 
that's why we need a different shade 
Just Adjust go with the flow roll woods 
and heims have a winter shade of 
foundation or BB cream or CC cream and 
have your summer care too right exactly 
and give us a quick definition of BB and 
CC for those who might not know this so 
BB cream is beauty balm so that is a 
treatment 
just to break it down to lamest terms a 
BB cream is a beauty it stands for 
beauty balm and what is a beauty bomb a 
beauty bomb is a product that is your 
treatment and correlation with your 
um Foundation or Tinted Moisturizer so 
it's like a treatment tinted moisturizer 
it's kind of how you want to approach it 
a CC cream is a color corrective cream 
oftentimes makeup artists what we'll do 
is it will have to go in and color 
correct so that's for us that have like 
dark circles or I've got these like 
hyper pigmentation spots on my 
complexion what we as artists do what I 
do is I'll go in and color correct so 
the CC cream has that step built in to 
the product again it's like let's 
eliminate not break it down it's all in 
the one tube of CC cream 
okay I love that both of those tend to 
have excuse me SPF in them amazing 
amazing amazing and so now let's talk 
about the subject that I love and you 
guys know I will talk about the berry 
lip but let's talk about color what is 
going on for color this summer what do 
we all need to know to look fresh and 
cool and like on Trend it's it's just 
that it's fresh bright washes we're 
looking for the pinks we're reaching for 
the berries the corals your berries are 
still here Bella we love you yeah where 
you're still good 
so whether you have the tan whether 
you're working and you're not getting 
much sun now thanks to this podcast you 
can everyone's going to be reaching for 
a self tanner at least for their face 
um go ahead and treat yourself to a nice 
fresh pop so pink Berry a light wash on 
the cheeks again I love these liquid 
liquid blushes girls I'm telling you 
it's where they're at because you can 
use the same shade let's say you opt for 
like a bella Berry because berries 
aren't just berries anymore you all 
should know that they're Bella berries 
like Bella Berry lips it's a movement 
it's a movement it's a movement jump on 
the bandwagon so if you reach for your 
bella Berry the same shade that you use 
on your cheeks you could do just a light 
wash on the eyelid and a little bit on 
your lips and there you go you're ready 
for it oh my God did you guys hear that 
three in one 
we're going to call it the Bella Berry 
absolutely it's it is Tyler Berry oh my 
God absolutely people ask me all the 
time what's your favorite Berry lip and 
I when you and I did the love lab the 
perfect your makeup look which you can 
buy on our website we talked about my 
favorite Berry lip is still Nars is Pele 
Royale and I'm trying to remember what 
yours was at the time 
mine was lover I believe or my new one 
is Lover by Maybelline oh I love that 
we're a good thing I'm obsessed oh my 
God we're like Walgreens CVS all the way 
up to Neiman's right and that's what you 
can do right you don't have to break the 
bank on these products you can totally 
mix and match so we like we share our 
love and our passion over these 
Maybelline and we're not plugged guys 
we're not I mean I'm plugging 
shamelessly because it's a great product 
and I don't like to gatekeep I love 
these Maybelline long wear lip stains 
they're on forever and lover tends to be 
my favorite Berry and heroin is my 
favorite coral for the summer and 
they're like under 15 and I've tried 
high-end low end like I just I love 
these things and they're great 
absolutely and her makeup kit that she 
brings to at SDA to do our photo shoots 
has like 150 different shades of 
everything and so many of them are 
Maybelline and those are absolutely 
amazing I agree and you can pick up even 
the everyday the Maybelline 
um what are the Crayons called that are 
like eight bucks that you can get at 
Target the ones that stay on like you 
and I have left like you have to take a 
washcloth to get the sucker off 
it's there to stay oh yeah absolutely so 
love those and 
um again love for lips that I want to 
share 
um tinted lip balms or lip oils again 
just kind of keeping it light and fresh 
so sometimes gloss and I'll get this a 
lot from our clients that gloss it's 
like I don't like it it kind of gets all 
over the place I will always suggest go 
for a lip oil so you're again hydrating 
and treating the lip but also wearing a 
little tint so you have a little bit of 
color 
okay and we can just look for lip oil 
yeah yes and most brands make that this 
is new to me too they do 
because I do berries and I can show you 
every Cup in my office and there's a lot 
because I drink a lot of stuff during 
the day has residues of lipstick and lip 
gloss so I'm always like oh gosh if I'm 
gonna go to someone's house I don't want 
to wear lip gloss because I'm good 
they're going to be like oh my God 
there's that Bella Grande and that Berry 
lip gloss all over everything and I know 
it was here giving your mark in 
everyone's living room 
absolutely so that's really great to 
know about lip oil I'm going to make 
sure I go out and get me some and and 
again I know you're a big fan of these 
things beauty blenders right and blend 
in all of this stuff like you're saying 
I bought my first one two months ago 
don't judge I love it it's okay it's 
okay it's never too late it's never too 
late and no judgment this is the no 
judgment Smart dating Academy Zone oh my 
God Beauty blenders for those of you who 
might not know and maybe I'm the only 
ignorant Schmo on Earth which I tend to 
be a lot but especially when it comes to 
makeup but it's like this pink sponge 
that's sort of shaped not like a clown 
nose but it's sort of it's just cool and 
you can blend literally anything I've 
taken it when I feel like oh I don't 
like the concealer you just rub rub rub 
and it's like it's like an artist's 
paintbrush and it just Blends everything 
together so get yourself a beauty 
blender they're like five bucks and 
they're amazing amazing and I have a PSA 
okay I've had clients that are like how 
come yours feels different yours is so 
much softer so this is a public service 
announcement you are supposed to wet it 
and Bella you I hope that I told you 
this or you may already know you're 
supposed to wet it squeeze out the 
excess water before you use it so you 
use it damn oh God she didn't know you 
did not tell me this I I want to try I 
dropped the ball I'm a terrible friend 
I'm sorry you wet it you completely 
submerge it in water and squeeze it dry 
and use it damp and that's how you blend 
I'm so sorry truth bomb ladies 
so today we've learned that I've just 
bought my first Beauty blender eight 
weeks ago and it's been dry so now we're 
gonna soak that sucker and we're gonna 
squeeze it out hey guys we're all works 
in progress including me right nobody 
has made it yet 
except Denise has made it to the top of 
the makeup Hill but the last the rest of 
us are all Learners so um let's talk 
about one of my favorite subject 
besides lips eyes tell us all of the 
things about summer eyes I love eye 
makeup so eye makeup also tends to be 
the one thing that it's like oh the 
girls in the magazine or people on 
social media they just look so perfect 
and Blended and it doesn't have to be 
complicated you don't have to call in 
and call off a work for the day it can 
be a super quick process and it doesn't 
have to look like you threw something 
together you can definitely still look 
fully put together and don't have to 
spend half your day 
um tackling eye makeup what I absolutely 
love especially for summer are the cream 
eyeshadows so you guys they have these 
in either sticks so there's like an eye 
shadow stick there's so many of them on 
the market 
um eyeshadow sticks tend to be more 
popular and then they also have 
eyeshadow cream pots again high-end low 
end so the pots look like 
um 
like a Carmex right that's that's kind 
of how they're sold and they come in 
Shimmer washes or matte washes same 
thing applies with the eyeshadow sticks 
but what I love about the eyeshadow 
stick let's say let's stick with those 
no pun intended 
we do it all makeup comedy you name it 
you name it we got it you want a drink 
you want a shot we've got it you got it 
um the eye shadow stick for example 
you'll take that and literally just rub 
it from your lash line up to 
um halfway up your eyes so halfway up to 
your brow and just blend it out with 
your fingertip boom your eyeshadow is 
done 
it's that easy it's that easy you can't 
mess it up I assure you I promise you 
cannot mess it up oh my gosh one of my 
favorite ones is a gold Shimmer crayon 
from Laura McAvoy and it's amazing and 
I'll take it and I just wear it on my 
lips Laura Mercier or Trish or Trish 
McAvoy see Trish mcelboy that one Laura 
I was thinking is it Laura Mercier 
they're both beautiful Brands they 
should be friends you guys see why I've 
hired a makeup artist that you're not in 
my hands for makeup so Trish McAvoy it's 
amazing it's this gold Shimmer and I 
have one in charcoal and I put it on my 
lid and now that I've watched Anissa do 
her work I'll also like tap a little bit 
underneath my eye to just sort of make 
it look like eyeliner so it's a lighter 
look and it doesn't have to be a harsh 
black liner or something underneath your 
eye and it's just and it's easy and you 
throw it in your bag right especially if 
you think oh my gosh my face is going to 
melt off throw it in your bag and it's 
teeny tiny and it fits and they're 
amazing definitely definitely and 
another another little tip because I 
love them and I love to share 
um if you get a light like gold wash 
like you're saying Bella what you can do 
is you can even use that same pen and 
just give yourself a little tap on the 
inner corner of your eyes it brightens 
up your whole look and let's say you're 
running late and you're like I don't I 
can't afford the 23 seconds it would 
take me to apply the shadow just give 
yourself a little love tap with that 
light bright eyeshadow stick on the 
inner corners of your eyes and you're 
good to go oh my gosh and you guys this 
is just a public service announcement 
Anissa and I put together a 90-minute 
webinar love lab called perfect your 
look for zoom and Beyond and Beyond made 
States and it's rooted in data from 
Harvard about the look for women the 
makeup look that is the most promotable 
at work and that dovetails perfectly 
with our recommended dating look and we 
put together this 90-minute webinar we 
did this about a year and a half ago and 
it we put 
we have products we have a list we and 
we I'm talking through it Anise is doing 
a demo on it so if you want to look at 
this and you love these tips in detail 
go to our website 
smartdatingacademy.com go to webinars 
buy that thing it's on sale for 99 bucks 
on there you will learn more than you 
will potentially imagine and you will 
see Anissa at work and that just 
reminded me when you talked about 
dabbing that eye shadow stick into the 
little inner corners of your eye how we 
went through every single step including 
contouring and highlighting and how you 
give yourself an instant eye lift using 
makeup in this webinar so I'll put a 
link in the show notes as well to this 
webinar if you're loving this watch that 
it will change your freaking world and I 
can't tell you it's how selfishly 
rewarding we've spoken about this ballot 
to this day still so that was some time 
ago as you mentioned about a year and a 
half ish let's say 
um we still are getting so much positive 
feedback from clients that attended 
clients friends that attended that and I 
love it it's the gift that keeps on 
giving and it just it makes me feel 
really good to know that oh wow okay you 
did learn a lot and you're still using 
those roles today I love it oh 100 my 
married friends have all they're like 
can I buy the webinar I'm like of course 
you can and it's available on our site 
so if you like this and you really need 
help with how to apply it that is the 
thing to do in any six spills out all of 
her favorite products in there a lot of 
us have bought a lot of that stuff and 
everybody is in love with it so 
um so first summer and this is 
um how do you how do you kind of melt 
proof your face I know with our client 
photo shoots we do a lot outside and the 
clients always look amazing I'm sweating 
my face off we're all sweating our faces 
off but how do you protect that look 
setting spray setting spray setting 
spray setting spray I cannot say it 
enough so again we have really short 
Summers we don't want to waste our time 
inside we want to maximize every moment 
we can of being outside and enjoying it 
because you know we are going to be 
cooped up in the winter so let's get 
outside no one wants to waste their time 
inside it's too lovely of a day so 
making sure the day doesn't slip away 
off your face you're going to use 
setting spray here's where the magic 
lies are you guys ready instead of 
spraying it directly on to your 
complexion I like to use our new magical 
favorite tool in my kit the beauty 
blender so I get a setting spray spray 
it onto the beauty blender and tap it 
into your complexion at those High sweat 
areas right so our T-Zone our forehead 
maybe the upper lip a little right here 
outside on the cheeks that's how you're 
going to tap it once you have the spray 
onto your bra onto your beauty blender 
you're going to tap it on and then make 
up it's not moving the wet Beauty 
blender not the dry Beauty blender the 
dance Beauty blender right no you spray 
it on the dry one and like you need a 
new you need a new setting spray it's 
going to absorb all of it oh my gosh and 
I love that because not only are you 
going to set it but you're going to blot 
off any excess stuff right as you're 
blending so that's amazing do you have a 
favorite setting spray 
I tend to I love morphe okay I used to 
use it it was an Urban Decay 
um I I didn't love the smell I'm I'm 
very particular about smells and that's 
just like honest full disclosure I 
didn't love the smell of the Urban Decay 
it works well but I just couldn't get 
over the smell to me I had like a little 
Funk to it I love morphe 
um because what I love about it is that 
it smells fresh and clean it's a light 
mist it's just like a nice little treat 
for yourself when you're done with your 
makeup like look at that so you do your 
makeup you follow our steps you go ahead 
you purchase our class that we talked 
about before you're done you take a step 
back in the mirror and you're like damn 
I look good I just did that I just did 
that to my face look at me I'm feeling 
myself and then you just missed it on 
press it into your skin and you're like 
okay I'm ready this work of art is not 
going away so let's make plans let's go 
okay so after recording this podcast I 
will tell you I'm going to buy the 
morphe setting spray I think it's 
m-o-r-p-h-e is that right 
yes yes have fun with it they're they're 
no wrong have fun with it embrace it 
it's makeup it washes off because now 
you're all washing and wiping it washes 
off it comes off have fun with it play 
with it customize it make it your own 
these are the general tools but every 
face is different every look is 
different every preference is different 
and it's okay just have fun with it 
claim it make your own we may even have 
some listeners that are saying you know 
I don't really like makeup that's okay 
that's your thing that's your thing it's 
fine it's totally 
and everyone has a different preference 
that's why there are so many products 
there are so many faces that we see on 
billboards and that's the beauty of it 
customize it have fun with it make it 
your own 
and try some new things guys I mean I am 
the Pele Royale Soldier 
recently I've started trying out 
brighter pinks Anissa will give me new 
colors she did my makeup for my TED talk 
with this pink lipstick and people were 
like what is that lip that it needs to 
put on you for the Ted Talk today if you 
watch the reels of this segment I'm 
wearing a brighter pink lipstick and 
it's not a berry so push your boundaries 
out it'll give you a little bit of a 
dopamine surge you'll walk down the 
street going who's noticing my new 
lipstick my new lip stain or my amazing 
setting spray so people will when you 
wear it permanently people will they 
definitely will so embrace it have fun 
with it it's makeup it's not a tattoo no 
it is definitely temporary you can 
although these lip stains I mean they 
could be as permanent as you want them 
to be but it's not a tattoo you can wipe 
it off you can wash it off but I agree 
have fun with it go outside of your 
comfort zone this is part of like the 
human growth process jump out of your 
comfort zone I love that Anisa thank you 
so much for being here and guys remember 
if you loved this go to the show notes 
buy the whole tutorial you will not be 
sorry we've had nothing but five star 
reviews hundreds of them on this webinar 
that we literally took hours and hours 
and hours and hours and hours to put 
together between us and it was fabulous 
and if this all sounds good to you get 
your tail to Chicago to come and work 
with us and do a photo shoot because 
then you'll need us personally and guess 
what then you don't even have to do the 
tutorial because Anise is going to make 
that gorgeous face gorgeous for you so 
with that Anisa thank you again 
thank you Bella thanks for having me oh 
my gosh you're such a delight one of my 
favorite humans smart daters until next 
week we leave you in a world of happy 
Rosie blushed summer looks have a great 
week 
