we have a lot more men coming into the 
spa something that men love is that the 
the skin care line is numbered 1 2 3 4 5 
so if you were to tell Andy use the 
serum he would probably tell you what 
number is that that's how guys think 
right so my partner he loves the saber 
Beauty line because it's numbered so if 
I ever say hey I think you need some 
carrot Rose serum because your skin is 
looking a little bit dull he'll say what 
is that just tell me what number that is 
um so I think that's why a lot of men 
may be attracted to coming in for Spas 
into our line because numbered system 
takes a guesswork out and that's what we 
did the New York Times called it the 
overwhelming multi-step line which is 
why we sort of made it for the American 
woman and numbered everything and 
simplified everything so that it takes a 
guess work 
out 
