I was dating someone casually I was on 
the west coast he was on the east coast 
and that worked just fine then I moved 
back to the east coast because of my job 
and we were in the same city and it just 
became clear that it was not the right 
relationship probably for either of us I 
have this one friend who told me about 
Smart dating Academy and I was like oh I 
don't know she sponsored me to come to 
this the the workshop where you were 
talking to this group and I came and I 
still wasn't convinced because I didn't 
want to put in the hard work I was like 
this is too hard I kept thinking about 
it off and on and then I finally decided 
that okay I'm going to do it but when 
you called you were in and I'm just 
thankful that that I did find a liit to 
my pot and who would have thought who 
would have thought that you know I would 
meet somebody who was literally in route 
to another continent and that we would 
end up together it's it's just 
unbelievable 
