[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back I am so excited 
to talk to you today and we're going to 
hop right into 
a segment that I think you're going to 
want to listen to again and again and 
again I'm bringing you back again my 
friend Dr Lauren Stryker if you haven't 
heard the episode we did last time it 
was about dating and weight gain an 
amazing episode so Lauren thank you for 
being here with us well you're welcome I 
thought when you were gonna say this is 
an episode you're going to want to hear 
I thought you were going to say when 
you're alone 
and you're in a crowd of people because 
we're going to get down deep and dirty 
and intimate yeah when I do this when 
you're with your mother for example I'm 
just saying exactly get the little ones 
out of the room get all put your airpods 
on people get your headphones on because 
today we're gonna talk about sex and 
most importantly safe sex and fun sex 
okay and they can all go hand in hand 
but Lauren is here to tell us all of the 
things you guys know she's a 
gynecologist she runs the sexual health 
clinic at Northwestern University and 
she's a basically a celebrity in this 
world so Lauren let's get right into 
this tell us everything Let's Talk About 
Sex and safe sex 
well the way I like to think of it is 
how to have a positive experience 
without testing positive because as you 
said it's supposed to be fun you don't 
want to spend so much time worrying 
about if you're going to get herpes or 
gonorrhea or chlamydia that you don't 
have a good time but having said that 
you can have fun and still keep it safe 
but this is all about planning in 
advance because in the moment is not the 
time to say whoops you know I hadn't 
really thought about that how am I going 
to protect myself against a sexually 
transmitted infection but the numbers 
are going up in all age groups and we 
see the highest numbers of sexually 
transmitted infections in the 20 to 30 
year old crowd why because quite frankly 
they're having the most sex 
um and it's not always safe sex it's not 
always protected sex but having said 
that no age group is spared bacteria do 
not ask to see proof of age before they 
infect you and we see infections whether 
you're 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 and and we 
see them more in women than in men 
because women are more prone to getting 
a sexually transmitted infection than 
guys are so unfair but so true why why 
is that the case a lot of it is because 
women have you know thinner skin there's 
more of a chance that there's going to 
be a nice little portal of entry in the 
vaginal walls because it doesn't take 
much it can be a teeny little scratch or 
an abrasion such that when there's a 
little bugger a virus in there it's 
going to have access to crawling right 
into the tissue and because women are 
the receivers instead of the givers it 
is more likely so I'm not saying that 
guys don't get STIs of course they do 
otherwise we'd be giving it to the women 
you know so the guys exactly it's just 
it's more likely that if a woman has STI 
with a man it's less likely that he's 
going to get something from her than if 
a woman has sex with a guy who has an 
infection so but everybody has to be 
careful about them time 
right and I know you and I have had many 
conversations about this both online and 
offline with drinks in our hand talking 
about sex and when to have sex and you 
smart daters I know subscribe to the 
Smart dating Academy philosophy of sex 
exclusivity waiting to have sex until 
you're in a committed exclusive 
relationship I agree with that it's just 
the timing that might be 10 minutes 
after you meet someone that you decide 
your aunt you're the lid for my pot and 
and we're best to be exclusive everyone 
says yay and then yeah that's an 
exaggeration that's right after well we 
want to keep all the narcissists and the 
avoidance at Bay and the only way to 
know that is over an extended amount of 
time so that we can really kick the 
tires on seeing who this person is you 
can build that connection and then 
ultimately have a partner a boyfriend a 
girlfriend whatever you're going to call 
it and then hit the hay jump in the sack 
do the nasty and all of that now here's 
what's particularly fascinating we say 
exclusivity now what I also tell my 
clients is oh but I'm not saying we're 
in a Convent okay I'm saying there's a 
lot between zero and the big nasty and 
Lauren is always educating me and out 
there educating all of us on the fact 
that just because you're not actually 
really having sex sex that doesn't 
necessarily mean you're not going to 
catch anything so even if you're 
subscribing you're like okay well we're 
making out we might be going to second 
base or third base 
you sound like you're in seventh grade 
all right I'm gonna put things a little 
more out there 
penile vaginal intercourse is not the 
only way to have sex 
a lot of people think of that as actual 
sex but the truth of the matter is that 
sexual activity can be oral it can be 
anal it can be digital with fingers it 
can be with toys it can be what we call 
outer course meaning you get all naked 
and you're rubbing your genitals 
together but there's not actual 
insertion those are all forms of sex all 
of them and those are all ways in which 
a sexually transmitted infection can be 
transmitted but part of what people kind 
of fall into to feel like they're a 
little safer or they're not going to get 
themselves into trouble is they'll say 
as Bella would say we're really not 
going all the way we're really not 
having sex we're just fooling around and 
I maintain that fooling around is sex 
it's just a different kind of sex it's 
the sex that maybe you're not going to 
get pregnant but you are certainly 
having sex and you can certainly have an 
STI 
okay so maybe we can call this like bdad 
before the deed after the deed penile 
vaginal anal where one thing's going 
into another okay so does that sound 
fair like what do we need I think we can 
call I think that what we let's just 
divide it up to make it really simple so 
we're all talking the same language yes 
we either have sexual activity with 
intercourse or sexual activity without 
intercourse okay sexual activity but 
it's are you having intercourse versus 
are you not having intercourse okay is 
that that work for you that's perfect so 
let's say we're in the beginnings we're 
on like you know we're sort of just 
testing the waters out we've got our 
dating funnel going we're hanging out 
with multiple people now what do we need 
to be thinking about well that depends 
on how naked you are and oh I love where 
this is going turn the volume up ladies 
and gentlemen that I used to read good 
old and Landers who's now been dead for 
I don't know many years and Ann Landers 
used to always say as long as both of 
you have both feet on the ground you 
have nothing to worry about 
I don't know that I 100 agree with that 
because people can be very creative 
nowadays 
um but you know the idea of when you say 
how when are you going to get into 
trouble I mean the truth is as you get 
into trouble in general when at least 
one person has their pants off and I 
mean they're Underpants too you know 
that's when things can go to the point 
of actually having a sexually 
transmitted infection so I think at the 
point when you are at you know get 
getting down to that level is when you 
have to start thinking about am I 
putting myself in a position where I 
might get something and and one of the 
big misconceptions about acquiring a 
sexually transmitted infection is this 
idea that it's only going to happen 
through intercourse and the problem is 
is that a lot of sexually transmitted 
bugs they live on the skin they're not 
in the vagina necessarily they're not in 
the semen they are on the skin and I 
think when you think about it you all 
know that I mean we know that you can 
have herpes on the outside side and that 
you don't have to ejaculate for you to 
get herpes you can get herpes from your 
mouth obviously so you know that has 
nothing to do with actually having 
intercourse we know that genital warts 
HPV which is the most common sexually 
transmitted infection that lives on the 
skin and on you know what we call the 
mucous membranes like the openings of 
the vagina and also you know other 
places on the body that have mucous 
membranes so there's a lot of 
um there's a lot of potential for 
transmission of an STI even if just one 
person has their clothes off 
interesting and so 
people will often ask me like Bella do 
you think I should get tested you know 
should my partner get tested what and so 
my question to you 
is when we say tested and I put that in 
quotes what does that even mean and how 
like what should we do with us and our 
partners to make sure that we're both 
safe right well you know that's probably 
one of the most common questions that we 
get in the clinic is people come in and 
say I want to get tested for everything 
and when we tell them there is no such 
thing as getting tested for everything 
people are surprised to hear that 
because there's this kind of basic you 
know sense of well of course you can get 
tested and then if you both get tested 
and you're both negative then you're 
home free and the truth of the matter is 
is that there's no such thing as getting 
tested for everything and to make it 
even more confusing every doctor has 
their own little panel of what they 
might test for so one woman might go to 
a clinic and say I would like to get a 
test for sexually transmitted infection 
and she might get a test for say 
gonorrhea and chlamydia and then another 
clinic might also say well we're going 
to include syphilis and then someone 
else may include hepatitis so the the 
idea of that you're going to go and get 
a test and be free and clear is simply 
not true and this is even a bigger issue 
when you have asked that of your partner 
in a willing you know lovely partner 
might say sure I'll go get tested and 
then he or she come back and reports I 
was tested and I was negative and then 
there's this confidence level of oh good 
you know they were tested so I don't 
need to worry about it when in fact the 
real question is what were you tested 
for specifically and so when someone 
comes to me and says I would like a 
sexually transmitted infection screen 
the first question I say to them is are 
you having any symptoms now most STIs 
are asymptomatic but sometimes people do 
have symptoms that may lead me to test 
for a very specific infection and then 
the second thing I'll say is were you 
with a partner who you know to have a a 
particular infection because if they 
come to me and say yeah I was with this 
guy and he told me after the fact that 
he has gonorrhea well then obviously I'm 
going to test you for gonorrhea actually 
I'm just going to treat you for 
gonorrhea but you know but I'm going to 
test you for gonorrhea and 
so once we have that conversation then I 
will say to the woman because my 
patients of course are all women I'm a 
gynecologist and I will say okay I am 
going to test you for the following and 
then I list the following four or five 
things 
um there are many other things that I 
can test you for and there are also 
things that we don't do as part of a 
standard battery is there anything else 
you had on your mind because I'm not a 
mind reader you know is there anything 
else that you were thinking about or 
worried about or concerned about that 
you would like me to test you for and um 
and then we could have that discussion 
but I mentioned HPV human papillomavirus 
is the most common sexually transmitted 
infection and a lot of times people will 
say oh I want you to test me for HPV 
well we actually can't really do that 
and that's because yeah it's I mean if 
someone has let's say a genital wart on 
their vulva or vagina yes I can test 
that for HPV but if someone has a 
completely normal exam and I know don't 
see anything and everything looks fine I 
could certainly do a cervical swab to 
check for HPV which is What's Done 
during a Pap test because we're checking 
for HPV as well because HP of course 
increases your risk of not only cervical 
cancer but vaginal cancer vulvar cancer 
penile cancer 
Etc so we can do a swab but what that 
slob tells us is not do you have HPV 
what it tells me is do you have one of 
the high risk HPV that we are 
specifically testing for and is it 
active right now meaning oh yeah it gets 
a little confusing but this is important 
so if somebody gets a Pap test for 
example and the Pap test comes back 
showing HPV 
and they'll say oh did I just get it 
because my last Pap test was fine 
and the answer is we don't know you 
could have had HPV for 10 years but 
basically your HPV can go into 
hibernation it can become inactive so 
it's not always going to show up in a 
Pap test so I don't know when you got it 
but the other thing is is there's 60 
different subtypes of HPV we don't test 
for all of them we test for the ones 
that are put you at increased risk of 
cancer so if someone says I don't have 
HPV because my Pap test didn't show any 
it's really not true it means they 
didn't have a high risk HPV that was 
active at that moment so to Circle back 
to where this started if someone comes 
in and says I would like a test for HPV 
what I say to them is I can do a 
cervical swab and it will tell me if you 
have an active high risk HPV right now 
but that's the only information I'm 
going to get so the answer is no in 
general blood test there's nothing 
there's no blood test I mean you know in 
research settings certainly they that's 
how they get you know all this 
epidemiological information in research 
settings certainly they can test for 
specific types of every type of HPV and 
all that but from a practical point of 
view I can't do that kind of testing in 
my office and and it's just not done so 
you know again people get this idea like 
okay I was tested I'm negative same like 
we talk about Herpes you know herpes is 
of course extremely common and if 
someone has a sore I can certainly 
culture that sore to see if it's herpes 
and if it's positive it's herpes if it's 
negative it doesn't mean it's not herpes 
it might be that it's just already 
drying up you know if you don't get it 
in the first 48 72 hours you're gonna 
get a false negative so that's not 
helpful and if someone has no sore well 
I don't have anything to culture and yes 
we can do a blood test for herpes but 
that blood test is going to be positive 
if you ever had a cold sore on your lip 
ever so yeah yeah so you know again 
um we don't do herpes blood tests 
routinely for women who want an STI 
check because we're going to get an 
awful lot of positives that may just be 
for from a former cold sore there are 
certain circumstances we do do it like 
pregnancy and all that but in general we 
are not doing routine testing for for 
herpes so in my clinic if someone comes 
to me and they are asymptomatic and they 
just say I would like a screen for 
sexually transmitted infection what I do 
is my general basic screen is I do 
gonorrhea chlamydia 
syphilis hepatitis HIV 
and then uh that's that's kind of my 
basic screen and is that even a fraction 
of sexually transmitted infections no 
but those are the ones that we see most 
commonly and uh you know that we want to 
know about but it's not like I'm saying 
if that's negative 
you're not going to give them anything 
or her anything because we also you know 
know that there are other things the 
other thing also to keep in mind when 
you when you ask for that STI screen 
unless you've only had vaginal exposure 
don't forget about getting other places 
screened you know if you've had oral sex 
and you're concerned about having gotten 
oral gonorrhea 
um or you know you you need to you're 
looking horrified Bella 
um they can't see this but I'm telling 
you 
issues yet which was my 
was mine's day here we are seeing um a 
huge increase in anal cancer you know it 
used to be that I mean not animals I'm 
sorry anal intercourse 
um 
we are seeing we are seeing a huge 
increase in in anal sex and it was 
always kind of the convention that if 
someone was having anal sex of course it 
was a gay guy because they have anal sex 
well that's simply not true we know that 
in uh heterosexual couples there's a lot 
of anal sex going on for a variety of 
reasons some is because people have just 
found to be very pleasurable 
um the others because they're avoiding 
pregnancy 
um and the others because maybe they're 
not really thinking of it as having sex 
because it's not the bowel definition of 
sex just saying but the point is is if 
someone has had anal sex well then you 
need to tell your gynecologist that you 
would like a swab of your rectum as well 
because you can be harboring gonorrhea 
hepatitis all of that can be in the 
rectum so when you're thinking in terms 
of STI screening it might be a little 
bit more comprehensive than maybe what 
you were thinking 
interesting so it's a swab so you swab 
the vagina 
what you're testing for okay so so for 
gonorrhea and chlamydia it's a cervical 
swab like a Pap test basically 
depending on which layup someone is 
using sometimes they can do it all at 
the same time from the same swab those 
tests can also be done on the urine and 
that's really important because a lot of 
people for a variety of reasons are not 
going to have a gynecologic exam or they 
want to just go to their internist who 
may not be equipped to do that and you 
can get a gonorrhea or a chlamydia test 
from a urine sample it's not quite as 
accurate but it's still you know 
definitely appropriate some things are 
blood tests for example syphilis is a 
blood test hepatitis is a blood test HIV 
is a blood test 
um you know rectal swabs again it 
depends what you're looking for so it's 
really very much test specific and and 
it's funny how when I give people the 
menu and and they'll pick and choose 
what they want and I don't know what 
they're basing it on like a lot of times 
someone will say well while you're down 
there you know do a screening us do it 
all do it all and I'll say okay well I 
can do gonoring chlamydia and they'll go 
yeah yeah do that and then I'll say okay 
then we've got to draw your blood for 
and then you know list all the stuff and 
they'll go no that's okay I'll just do 
the gonoring committee and I'm like okay 
if you know those aren't the most common 
things but if that's what you want okay 
so it's it's always interesting to me 
what people have on their menu of STIs 
that's interesting so you typically 
would say a good an STI screen if you're 
asymptomatic and you just is 
don't have a known exposure to something 
yeah right and just curious if you're 
testing for five everybody can test for 
different things how many STIs exist and 
maybe that's just a crazy question is it 
500 
um it's about 60. 
um okay it's about 60. because if you 
define an STI as something that's 
transmitted sexually even if we don't 
think of it as being sexual per se 
um that counts as an STI so when you 
look at the list it's really long 
there's also sexually Associated 
infections so as an example 
um bacterial vaginosis is a very common 
form of vaginitis in women that causes 
vaginal discharge it's the most common 
cause of vaginal discharge you have 
normal vaginal discharge and it's not a 
sexually transmitted infection I want to 
be clear on that bacterial vaginosis is 
not sexually transmitted however it is 
an associated with sexual activity both 
women having sex with women and women 
having sex with men and it really has to 
do with the change in the microbiome in 
the environment from exposure to a new 
partner so that's one of the things we 
see that a lot with people that have 
oral sex with new partners sharing sex 
toys we see this a lot new with with two 
women so 
um you know so there's both sexually 
Associated and sexually transmitted 
another sexually transmitted infection 
which is quite common that women don't 
think about is something called 
trichomonas trichomoniasis which is 
causes a funky vaginal discharge and of 
course every time a woman gets a vaginal 
discharge she thinks that she has a 
yeast infection and because the yeast 
medications are available over the 
counter people go off and they buy all 
these yeast medications and then the 
infection doesn't get better and it's 
not because the medication wasn't good 
it's because they were treating the 
wrong thing 
um because it might be a bacterial 
vaginosis it might be a trichomoniasis 
which is a sexually transmitted 
infection so you know there's there's a 
whole laundry list of things that people 
don't know about that that may cause 
problems but I also I want to Circle 
back a little bit to symptoms because we 
didn't really talk about what you know 
what's a symptom what what could mean 
an infection and one of the things that 
a lot of times people aren't thinking 
about is spotting because if someone has 
an infection that has caused an 
inflammation of the cervix or of the 
vaginal walls they're going to spot and 
of course people automatically think 
well maybe that's you know breakthrough 
bleeding from my birth control or maybe 
I have an IUD and there I go it's 
spotting again and in fact if someone 
has had a new partner and they're 
spotting 
um that's a red flag to get in and and 
get a screen for a sexually transmitted 
infection because it may well be 
um that that is specifically because of 
an infection we also when we talk about 
discharges and there's so many different 
causes of discharges and certainly 
um you know yeast is not the most common 
bacterial vaginosis is but a lot of 
these infections will cause a discharge 
there's something that we describe as a 
muco purulent discharge which I know 
sounds really inviting 
um and this is just kind of a mucousy 
[ __ ] looking discharge that sometimes 
has some spotting in it it may or may 
not have a little bit of an odor but 
again it's a red flag get in and get 
tested and a lot of times a woman will 
come to me and because some people are 
feeling shamed about having sex or 
having unprotected sex from listening to 
people who tell them not to have sex for 
a long time that they don't want to 
admit that they dance 
I'm shaming you now Bella 
um but what happens is they won't tell 
me that's what they want they'll just 
come in and they'll say 
so how's everything look down there down 
there I'm like everything looks fine why 
just wondering how everything looks down 
there and because I think they think 
that I'm going to you know number one be 
Clairvoyant and know that they need an 
STI screen and number two that that's 
what they're worried about and then if I 
don't see anything and if there are no 
symptoms it doesn't mean you don't need 
a screen because again most of these 
infections 
um are asymptomatic so 
um and a lot of times people you know 
that they feel like they have to give me 
some kind of explanation you know like 
make a quail you know and it was a 
really nice guy 
all you need to say is Hi there I'd like 
an STI screen please I am not going to 
ask you any questions Beyond do you have 
any symptoms or is there a particular 
thing that you're worried that you were 
exposed to that you'd like me to test 
for you know I don't care if you had sex 
with the whole football team that's your 
problem Bella it's not my problem I just 
want to know man well I want to know if 
it was consensual I mean that's a 
different story and we can talk about 
that later but I'm talking about if 
someone is having consensual sex with 
whoever I make no judgment I really 
don't I just want to make sure that I am 
screening you to keep you safe to make 
sure that if you have something that I 
can you know get you the proper 
treatment as quickly as possible 
okay I got that that's great that's 
awesome so I think that gives us a 
tremendous education on the fact that I 
mean just you know be careful out there 
and get yourself tested get your partner 
tested for these STI screens and now 
Lauren has told you the minimum of what 
should be involved if you're 
asymptomatic and just get on the same 
page with your partner or Partners again 
no judgment here we're talking to 
everybody and uh and and go from there I 
think 
um 
you know I we got a lot of questions I 
posted a sticker on Instagram for you 
guys to ask some questions and I think 
that 
um let's get to some of these and 
there's a lot of questions here about 
orgasms from women do they get harder to 
come by as we age should I use toys do 
women have trouble reaching orgasm the 
older they get so can you explain give 
us the lowdown on the Big O yeah 
um that is my next book by the way I as 
I have a number of books and I've 
started a series now my books are 
directed towards post menopause women 
but quite frankly any woman would 
benefit because the information is 
amazing a lot of this stuff is for all 
age groups but so my first book Is Slip 
Sliding way turning back the clock on 
your vagina and that really is 
specifically for women who are no longer 
making estrogen and having difficulty 
with urinary symptoms and vaginal 
symptoms and all that my second book 
halfway as hell is again really directed 
A post-menopause because as that's when 
they have hot flashes but the third book 
that I'm working on is called putting 
the O back in your mojo and it's a guide 
to orgasm and 
um the inability to have an orgasm is 
actually the second most common sexual 
complaint that is seen in sexual 
dysfunction clinics so if you are having 
trouble out there you are not alone you 
are not only one 
um and this is something that is 
absolutely fixable now there's two 
categories of difficulty with orgasm 
category number one is someone who's 
never had an orgasm ever ever ever ever 
and then category two is someone who has 
had orgasms just fine and then something 
happens to make it go away so when we 
talk about category one which is quite 
common women who've never had an orgasm 
um in in those cases sometimes there is 
a medical or biologic or hormonal 
problem but in the overwhelming majority 
these are are women who need a map to 
their clitoris because they have the 
expectation because no one has ever 
explained otherwise to them that they 
are going to have an orgasm during 
intercourse and then they don't and they 
think that there's something wrong with 
them as opposed to it is normal it is 
normal to not have an orgasm during 
intercourse unless there is clitoral 
stimulation at the same time and in fact 
only about 20 percent of women orgasm 
during intercourse so 
so what we know is that when someone 
comes in the clinic and says she's you 
know 20 30 40 years old and she comes in 
because she's never had an orgasm and we 
always do an exam to make sure that 
she's neurologically intact but 
everything and atomically is just fine 
and all that is good and then if that's 
the case then we actually sign that 
woman up to have some sessions with one 
of our amazing wonderful sex therapists 
who really kind of do the Deep dive into 
understanding what it takes to have an 
orgasm 
um in terms of maybe their cultural 
background their religious background is 
their history of abuse of trauma all of 
those things can impact on the ability 
to have an orgasm that are have nothing 
to do with someone's physical ability to 
have an orgasm and this is you know so 
treatable so treatable now the second 
category are women that used to have 
orgasms just fine and then something 
changed and then when they're doing all 
the things they it used to work before 
suddenly it's not working well what 
would cause that 
um 
there's a there's a long list but one of 
the things that we see particularly in 
young women is women who are input and 
antidepressants you know ssris 
um are obviously very very helpful and 
life-saving for a lot of people but the 
ssris can cause sexual dysfunction they 
can cause a decrease in libido and in 30 
percent of people they can cause the 
loss of orgasm so this sounds bad but 
I'm going to give you the good news a 
couple of the good news is number one 
for a lot of people it's temporary and 
for about 30 percent of that 30 percent 
that lose their ability to orgasm it 
gets better on its own with time 
um getting used to the SSRI right as 
right as the longer they've been on it 
it gets better so if someone comes to me 
and said I was put on an SSRI two months 
ago and I can't orgasm I tell them if we 
do nothing there's a 30 chance that it's 
going to come back so let's just wait it 
out a little bit and see what happens if 
it doesn't come back then we have a 
number of options 
number one is sometimes decreasing the 
dose this is not a do-it-yourself 
project you know you have to work with 
the person that prescribed it to see if 
maybe you can go down a little bit 
because it does seem to be dose related 
sometimes you can even be switched to a 
different antidepressant we know that 
some of them are not likely to do this 
like Wellbutrin is a popular one that 
does not have this sexual problem but 
let's say you are in that category of 
person that says Nope I need my SSRI to 
function I can't go down on the dose 
nothing else works for me I've been on 
it for a year and I can't have an orgasm 
what do I do well interestingly this is 
one of the subsets of people that Viagra 
Works in and Viagra of course is used to 
treat erectile dysfunction in men but in 
a number of studies it has been shown to 
help women specifically women who lose 
their orgasm because of an SSRI and so 
we do prescribe it off label and again 
this is not a do-it-yourself project you 
know but the dosage is different there's 
certain things you need to know but it 
actually it actually works pretty well 
um in most women when when we look at 
women who aren't able to orgasm 
um but it's not an SSRI thing that 
they've lost their ability to orgasm 
there are a lot of reasons that that can 
happen and just to make a sweeping 
generalization in order to have an 
orgasm you need a few things one is you 
need to be aroused if you're not aroused 
you're not going to have an orgasm 
that's why you know when we look at 
things like non-consensual sex when 
someone gets raped or something like 
that and these you know don't even get 
me started on people who think that 
that's in any way pleasurable because 
I'm just going to rip my hair off I will 
too but 
um but you know there's there's no way 
if you are not aroused that you are 
going to have an orgasm if you are with 
a partner that you don't like who is 
abusive or who you haven't had proper 
stimulation you're not going to have an 
orgasm unless you have a really vivid 
imagination and you you know pretend to 
someone else I mean seriously that's 
what a lot of women do they kind of 
Disconnect and they kind of go into to 
Fantasy Zone and that makes it they're 
married to someone who they don't like 
um you know people have all kinds of 
things they do to get around but the 
point I'm making is that you need to be 
aroused in order to have an orgasm when 
you look at other requirements and I do 
have a podcast on this by the way and 
you know it's all about orgasm 
um in terms of the requirements and how 
to have an orgasm so I go into a lot 
more detail in that and I do have this 
book coming out but but the other thing 
that needs to happen is 
um it's all about sensation you have to 
the you know the clitoris has 8 000 
little nerve endings and if those nerve 
endings don't fire well not much is 
going to happen well what makes nerve 
endings healthy blood vessels do so 
people that have vascular disease 
diabetes 
um you know other vascular problems even 
with aging sometimes with different 
medications those blood vessels are not 
going to be as healthy which means the 
nerves aren't going to be as healthy so 
what we do in the clinic of course when 
we find that that's the case is we do 
things to increase blood flow there's a 
lot of things we can do to increase 
clitoral blood flow 
um and then sometimes we increase 
sensation so my point is is that there 
are solutions and and one of the things 
I rail about is that when I talk to a 
big group of women you and I are always 
out from the world talking to these big 
groups of women and I'll say okay you 
know there's a thousand women in the 
audience and I'll say okay when you went 
to the doctor last time 
um did they ask you about your sexual 
function or are you know are you 
sexually active and every hand goes up 
right and then I'll say okay did your 
doctor ask if you were having any pain 
or problems with sex leave your hand up 
and you know eighty percent of the hands 
go down and then I'll say leave your 
hand up if your doctor asked if you were 
able to have an orgasm there's never one 
single hand in the air you know unless 
you were coming to someone like me or to 
a sexual medicine clinic yeah the 
chances that your doctor is actually 
going to ask you about your ability to 
have an orgasm is slim to none wow and 
you'll mentioned when we see people who 
are really at high risk where diabetics 
are with multiple sclerosis or you know 
other medical conditions which are going 
to inhibit that pathway to pleasure you 
know no one's asking about it so you 
assume they're not asking because 
there's no Solutions they're not asking 
about it because they don't know the 
solutions but there are those of us that 
do there are solutions and if you get 
nothing else from this whole thing I 
just said it's that if you are having 
difficulty with having an orgasm 
we can help you you know this is not 
something that you have to accept this 
is one of those things that more often 
than not more often than not we are able 
to help in that circumstance isn't that 
great for those of you who think that is 
my problem I'm taking a sip of water 
give me a minute I'll give you a minute 
but the other thing also of while you're 
drinking water I'll just keep talking 
because that's right please do you do 
that well for me 
you know is that sometimes it's a 
clueless partner you know we talk about 
a woman not having them after her 
glitter so that when the guy needs it 
needs a map as well there's a book I'm 
going to hold it up even though this is 
a podcast 
um but it's called becoming clitorate 
I don't know I love that with the c not 
becoming illiterate becoming Twitter 
it's written by Laurie Mintz Dr Laurie 
Mintz who's amazing and I am um actually 
I have scheduled to do a podcast with 
with Dr Mintz um which probably will not 
be out there until November December 22 
but I'm very excited for that 
conversation but her book is really 
um hugely hugely helpful for men and 
women to read in terms of really 
understanding female sexual function and 
what it takes for a woman to have 
pleasure because you know it's not like 
your mother told you you know right or 
it's not like his mother or her mother 
told her I don't know you know we're in 
a society where it's all about male 
pleasure and in fact there was a book 
written by Lisa Ornstein 
um girls in sex When She interviewed 
hundreds and hundreds of young women and 
teenagers about their expectations about 
being sexual and it was all about his 
pleasure it was never these were 
heterosexual girls and was never about 
you know their pleasure and then when 
you have sex ed for those of us that get 
sex ed it's all about not getting 
pregnant it might be about STI 
prevention but very rarely in Sac said 
does anybody talk about pleasure or 
specifically female pleasure 
so you can't blame women for not knowing 
and people are like okay but mothers 
should have this conversation with their 
daughters and my response always is yeah 
but someone's got to educate the mothers 
first that's right 
I mean did your mother sit down and talk 
to you about uh no yeah she just tells 
you don't have sex until you've been 
exclusive for how long until you have a 
ring on your finger right yeah 
um speaking of orgasm another question 
that came in from someone in our 
audience it says he won't wear a condom 
due to his performance issues what 
should I do about STDs I'm a woman 
yeah 
um well let's first of all let's get rid 
of the myth that a condom is going to 
prevent STDs STIs because a condom a 
male condom covers the penis it does not 
cover the scrotum it does not cover the 
perianal area it does not cover the 
mouth it does not cover the thighs and 
these are all areas where herpes can 
live HPV can live Etc so let's get rid 
of the myth that if he wears a condom 
you are protected but having said that 
wow just wow oh my God we'll go back to 
that but let's talk about the guy who 
won't wear a condom so we we see this 
mainly there's kind of two groups of 
guys that refuse to wear condoms one are 
older men that that truly do have 
difficulty maintain an erection if they 
put a condom on and one of my podcasts 
with one of my favorite urologists Dr 
Rachel Rubin is called need to know 
information about the penis in your bed 
and and we talk quite a bit about that 
guy the guy who cannot use a condom who 
can't maintain Direction and and what 
the fixes are for that 
um in in young guys sometimes it's they 
even young guys have problems 
maintaining an erection not for the same 
reasons necessarily 
um they have a lot of problems with 
premature ejaculation and and the condom 
um you know can sometimes just get in 
the way of the whole thing and then we 
have some guys who just quite frankly 
it's all about them and yeah exactly and 
then 
which I mean at least this guy is 
telling her he doesn't want to wear a 
condom so that she can protect herself 
we've all heard of stealthing which is 
the guy who puts the condom on and then 
right when he's about to go inside he 
slips it off which is you know after her 
knowledge which first of all is not only 
rape and sexual abuse it is also illegal 
in some states 
um 
that is illegal so you know that's 
that's really scary stuff but but for 
this woman I mean this is obviously 
decision time you know because this is 
the guy that's going to say even if 
she's using I'm not going to talk about 
pregnancy we'll assume that she's using 
her own birth control because women just 
have to take care of themselves right 
but um you know even if he says I've 
been tested for everything when we've 
already established there's no such 
thing and so if he's not willing to use 
a condom it's really just decision time 
now there is a female condom 
um and a lot of people are not aware of 
it it's called the fc2 condom and what 
this is is this isn't you can get it 
over the counter and it is a sheath that 
goes inside the woman's vagina that 
there's a ring that goes on the outside 
that covers the vulva and the beauty of 
the female condom is that it actually 
protects better than a male condom 
because not only does it a sheath so 
that you don't get exposure to his penis 
but it also means means that your vulva 
is covered so that you know you're not 
going to get that skin to skin and if he 
is going to give her oral sex with the 
female condom on and we'll talk about 
some other protection options as well 
but there's also you know there's 
there's that the the female condom has 
never really caught on most women have 
not heard about it it has been around 
for at least 10 years 
um it's actually used more in other 
countries one of the reasons that it 
that it hasn't gone on is first of all 
it's a little not very but it's a little 
bit Yeah you got to practice it takes 
two or three tries until you can easily 
get it in 
um but women don't like using them 
because of the appearance you know you 
basically have a ring hanging out of 
your vagina it doesn't decrease 
sensation it's made out of surgical 
glove material so you can feel just fine 
and the ring actually sometimes presses 
against the clitoris so some people say 
there's even enhanced sensation but 
it's really more about the appearance 
and it's a little bit cumbersome to use 
so but that is if he truly refuses to 
wear a condom 
um that would be her best bet in terms 
of having intercourse and avoiding an 
SCI 
is one more effective than the other in 
preventing STIs male or female condoms 
or female the female condoms of all 
those are worth more okay got it um got 
it got it and tell us about it and and 
it won't roll off oh yeah sometimes the 
male condom can roll off if he comes out 
and doesn't you know hold the base of it 
Etc so 
and he can't take the female condom off 
from that and you not know what I'm just 
saying you have the woman every time the 
woman has control things go much better 
right I mean that's in life in general 
in life right and of course 
um well Talent you were telling me and I 
was listening to some of your podcasts 
to prep for this episode tell us about 
this newfangled amazing thing these 
these panties that are protective and 
look cute and just tell me about these 
things so these are um latex panties for 
women to wear to protect while they are 
either 
um giving or receiving oral sex so this 
is not for penetrative sex because 
they're panties but basically these 
panties they're called Laurels 
um and they are FDA cleared for 
prevention of sexually transmitted 
infections which is pretty recent wow 
and yeah and so basically the woman 
wears these Laurels and while she's 
wearing them she can receive oral sex 
which means that if she has an infection 
in her vagina or on her vulva she won't 
give it to the person giving her oral 
sex and if that person has something on 
his or her mouth like herpes 
um they can't give it to her so it is 
protective for oral sex it is protective 
for anal play 
um and they're really catching on 
because people are looking for 
protection for for oral sexual 
encounters because there really hasn't 
been anything you know and for a woman 
to use because you've heard of dental 
dams but you know have you ever known 
anyone who's used a dental dam other 
than a dentist and not to mention it's 
kind of cumbersome it's a sheet of latex 
that you're supposed to spread over your 
ball and hold there well that sounds 
like fun so this is really 
um a workaround for that and they're 
disposable so it's a one-wear thing but 
but definitely 
um you know if women want to have sex on 
their period they want to have oral sex 
while they have their period if they are 
using some kind of medication if maybe 
the guy has a scratchy beard I mean the 
list is actually pretty long of 
circumstances that women can have more 
pleasurable sex oral sex if they are 
using these panties so that's kind of a 
cool new innovation that is cool so 
let's say you want to start with oral 
but then end with you know traditional 
intercourse you could just slide them 
over or take them off like it was a 
normal pair of underwear you got it 
right good old-fashioned style stand up 
around your ankles yeah they're they're 
black and they have um an L on it in 
pink which is very very pretty and so 
when I did my podcast on on safe sex 
about this and I was talking about it 
and of course I decided that the L was 
for Lauren and that every you know that 
you could get them with a B on it for 
example and I was interviewing the CEO 
of the company who told me sadly that no 
the L is not for Lauren it was for 
morals but I like to believe that the L 
is for Lauren 
that's amazing so so awesome 
um I think and you know talk I I love 
your general statistics that have come 
from your surveys tell us I don't think 
we can ever hear too much about waxing 
lasering pubic hair tell us about this 
and if women so many women that I work 
with at Smart dating Academy have come 
out of divorce or maybe they've never 
had sex or they haven't had sex with a 
new partner since 1983. what do they 
need to know about the land down there 
and what's appealing to men well first 
of all the land down there is a very 
obviously private area 
um I I will start by saying that there 
is a biologic function to pubic hair 
there's a reason that people have pubic 
hair and while in the you know hundreds 
of years ago I was to keep the genitals 
warm before central heating now we don't 
in general need that unless your heating 
goes out or you're having sex outside 
but um but the major benefit to pubic 
hair is it provides lubrication and it 
decreases friction so you don't get 
those nasty Rock Burns but having said 
that for a number of years now the style 
has been less is more and you know it's 
I got to tell you about yeah I'm a 
gynecologist obviously some liquid 
women's vulvas all day long and I barely 
notice other than to say that that I 
really right now see it all you know a 
lot of people it's completely bare a lot 
of people have a little landing strip a 
lot of people just trim and some people 
do absolutely nothing and never have and 
it's all normal it's all good it's all 
fine you know this is this is personal 
preference but the survey that you're 
talking about is you know the question 
always is do you do these things for 
yourself or do you do it for someone 
else and does that person really care 
and so 
um I did a survey where I asked a lot of 
different questions as you know because 
we've talked about it before but one of 
them was to men what is your preferred 
pubic hairstyle was multiple choice and 
yeah for women 
yeah yeah but it was it was right what 
what is your preferred hairstyle for a 
woman this was for male female sex what 
is the guy's preferred hairstyle for the 
woman he is having sex with and the 
choices were you know completely bare 
Landing Strip trim or full Bush and 
um and basically oh then the last Choice 
was I don't care I just want to be 
invited to the party and and that's what 
most guys said is they really didn't 
care 
um trimmed came in second actually so I 
I think that you know for women who 
think that all these guys want your 
vulva to look like you're a 
nine-year-old girl that is not the case 
some guys I can't speak for all men 
certainly some of them like that 
everyone has personal preference but 
this idea that you have to remove all of 
your hair in order to be sexually 
attractive is simply not true one of the 
things that that I've noticed 
um a lot is that it's the young women if 
they if someone's going to be bare it's 
young women and it's not necessarily 
women who are having sex it's kind of 
the whole idea of if you shave your legs 
if you shave under your arms that you 
should shave your your vulva as well and 
um it's you know that didn't used to be 
the case and I keep thinking that it's 
going to turn around you know hairstyles 
change on your head they they change 
down south as well 
um but I'm still seeing plenty of women 
who remove it all 
wow and no issues it's just personal 
Cosmetics I mean the friction issues 
um there is one sexually transmitted 
infection that is more common it was 
funny because I wouldn't say they feel 
cleaner that it's cleaner but it's not 
cleaner you know if you it's like saying 
you're affecting your hair well it's 
like saying that if you had to shave 
your head in order to have a queen scalp 
you know if you wash your vulva with you 
know mild soap and water quite frankly 
just water you know you don't need to 
remove your hair to be hygienic but 
um there's an infection called molluscum 
contagios some have you ever heard of 
that one yes yes and that's essentially 
to another example of a sexually 
transmitted infection that people don't 
always think about it happens to be more 
common in women that um remove their 
pubic hair I don't know why but 
um yeah maybe yeah anyway so 
um there's so when you look at the 
downside the downside is that there is 
more chance of rug burn friction and all 
that because you lose lubrication but 
the real downside isn't having removed 
your pubic hair it's how you remove it 
um NYX Cuts Burns we've seen it all so 
um some people get little red bumps no 
matter what they do we see a lot of 
chemical burns from those hair uh you 
know those the pillars those lotion 
there yeah oh God don't put that on your 
Volvo we see people that try and do you 
know do it yourself waxing and they just 
the wax is too hot and they burn I mean 
you you can figure that out I mean 
there's just a lot of things that can 
happen and you just want to be careful 
oh god oh wow wow wow wow so to wrap 
this up give us you mean you don't want 
to hear any more about the disasters 
that can happen oh my God I Was Made I 
was making a silly little joke in my 
life to wrap it up you know what I mean 
like wrap up you know when so usually 
this one anal sex because we talk about 
the perfect ending oh oh tell okay let's 
do it let's talk about I guess we're not 
wrapping it up yet before we let's talk 
about it 
let's talk about you know top or bottom 
just kidding 
so so this is the thing with anal sex 
and then there is a lot more of it 
um the vagina is meant to be a two-way 
passage penises are supposed to come in 
babies are supposed to come out the anus 
is meant to be a one-way passage it is 
nothing is supposed to be going up there 
and it's not made for it meaning that 
vagina has nice stretchy accordion-like 
tissue to accommodate a penis and the 
rectum doesn't and in addition the 
rectum has this little muscle the 
sphincter so what happens if someone has 
anal sex men or women 
um is that we see sometimes that there's 
an increased risk of stool incontinence 
because of damage to that muscle there's 
increased risk of infections because the 
tissue can get torn we see problems as a 
result of anal sex so this isn't a 
judgment thing you know I don't care you 
know where someone wants what someone 
wants to sexually I'm just taking it 
from the point of view of medically what 
are the risks and and there are risks 
and in addition to the fact that people 
often don't get screened for for anal 
STIs for rectal STIs and we're seeing an 
increase in anal cancers these anal 
cancers are HPV cancers that are 
generally a result of sexual activity so 
if you choose to to have anal sex 
there's a couple of things that you need 
to keep in mind number one is you do 
need to use protection you do need to 
use a condom just as you would for 
vaginal sex number two is you do need to 
get screened for sexually transmitted 
infections with a separate swab the swab 
that you have from the vagina is not 
going to be enough number three is um it 
obviously needs to be consensual but 
it's not that obvious because a lot of 
women do it and really are not all 
gung-ho because they have a partner 
who's insistent and who wants to do it 
and they go along with it even though 
it's not something that they find to be 
pleasurable and I am just saying please 
do not agree to do things that you don't 
want to do and that are not pleasurable 
for you but if this is something that 
you want to do you need to make sure 
that you take it very very slow that you 
use a lot of lubrication and listen to 
your body if it hurts a lot then you 
have to stop because if it hurts it 
means that there's a chance that 
something is getting damaged that 
something is getting torn and some of 
these things can cause long-term 
problems so this is just a cautionary 
tale I'm not I'm not you know probably 
for me to tell you not to do it but I 
think like everything else you have to 
make an informed decision before you do 
something and then decide if the risk is 
worth it to you exactly and I love what 
you said listen to your body it pain is 
usually a sign of something that's wrong 
right and we didn't talk about painful 
sex today and we won't get into this 
there's a whole other topic other than 
for me to say you should never have pain 
with sex if you are having pain with sex 
there is no you know bear there's no 
tough it out there's no I thought sex 
was supposed to hurt sex is never 
supposed to hurt and we can fix that 
okay well 
ladies and gentlemen if you heard that 
and if you are having painful sex which 
I hear a lot of people saying it burns 
it's hard 
do you have any a couple sentences you 
want to give us around painful sex oh 
well you know the thing about painful 
sex is obviously I run a sexual medicine 
clinic we see everyone has this idea 
that we are seeing older women the the 
women over the age of 50 generally in 
the menopause Clinic the the women that 
we are seeing in our sexual medicine 
clinic are in their 20s their 30s their 
40s the majority of them are coming to 
us because they're having painful sex 
the majority of them we are not the 
first second third or fourth opinion we 
are the fifth sixth or seventh opinion 
and my message out there is number one 
you should never have pain with sex and 
number two if you have not been given a 
solution from your doctor it doesn't 
mean that there isn't a solution it just 
means you need to see someone who's an 
expert in this and obviously I'm in 
Chicago but there are sexual medicine 
experts in every Big City I wish I could 
say that they were in every small town 
they are not but sometimes you have to 
travel 
um and we have Telehealth now and I 
always say that Telehealth doesn't 
really work very well for sexual pain 
because it's one of those situations we 
really really really need to examine you 
um but but sometimes we can get a lot 
just from taking a history and um in 
fact 
um I have a a wonderful podcast on 
pelvic floor PT physical therapy which 
is when the muscles clamp down when you 
have pain because of vaginismus and talk 
about how even sometimes that can be 
done virtually so we have Solutions this 
is not something you should ever put up 
with and you are not alone 
oh I love that what a great way to truly 
wrap it up top to bottom we covered it 
all about them yeah we covered it all 
top to bottom no puns intended so we 
didn't get to we didn't get to foot pain 
with orgasms we'll talk about that next 
time that would be tough well maybe we 
can also talk about foot fetishes at 
that time oh God we can do yeah I did 
have I think about speed is that you and 
I both like shoes and that has nothing 
to do with sex we just like shoes right 
I did have a woman who went on a date 
with a guy years ago and he looked at 
her feet and he's like I just want you 
to know I have a foot fetish and she's 
like oh hahaha he's like no really and 
she just wanted to go on a second date 
with him so just saying right remember 
people need to earn your story and on 
that note 
so much for being here I know we'll have 
you back again and again because you are 
amazing in every way so thank you 
