I think honestly self-love is an ongoing 
lifelong journey so now that you have 
that just in front of you that is your 
list that's your inventory that's that's 
who you are you know and maybe you want 
to put more emphasis on the things that 
you love about yourself as well right so 
maybe do something that that's good for 
you we all know that we are critical 
enough and we have enough self-talk 
negative self-talk oftentimes about the 
things that we don't love about 
ourselves so why not celebrate the other 
side and bring that more into our 
Consciousness because our brain is wired 
to think negatively and to to have a you 
know yeah a survival bias and so your 
brain will always show you the negative 
things anyway so why not train your 
brain and the muscle because your brain 
at the end of the day is a muscle as 
well to think more positively 
