[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back I'm so excited 
for this episode because you know so 
much of what I love to talk to you about 
and teach you about and bring guests 
onto the podcast about is really 
becoming the best versions of ourselves 
right and I know we talk about that and 
you know oh yeah of course you want to 
be the best version of yourself but 
really how do you do that and today's 
guest is someone who is helping people 
to do just that her name is Julia arndt 
and she's the founder of the Peak 
Performance method PPM 
um it's I'm going to read it a unique 
model combining critical productivity 
mindfulness and Leadership tools to help 
Forward Thinking people develop their 
next superpower like how amazing is that 
and Julia is originally from Germany you 
know I have a German degree so I love 
that she's lived in five countries all 
over the last 14 years she was at Google 
and now because of the successful things 
she launched at Google she's now 
successfully on her own so Julia welcome 
to the podcast 
thank you so much for having me Bella 
I'm very very excited to be here 
awesome let's Jump Right In and tell us 
tell us how did you start doing this 
work 
yeah 
I burned out is the short answer in the 
summer of 2018 
and leading up to the burnout I started 
to invest more in my personal 
development I started listening to 
podcasts I started to listen to 
audiobooks on on my commute and 
I started to ask myself a lot of big 
questions and it was really interesting 
how then at the same time I didn't 
realize that I was kind of exploiting my 
body and I was very burned out and so I 
went on a medical leave for three months 
in order to figure out what am I gonna 
do next because the work that I was 
doing at the time didn't really feel 
fulfilling anymore and 
I really wanted to live full-time in 
Lake Tahoe which in 2019 2018 was not 
possible now everything is more hybrid 
or fully remote but at the time it 
wasn't really that way and so I yeah I 
really asked myself some really big life 
questions around what do I want to do it 
was really difficult to make the 
decision to leave Google and at the same 
time I heard this like bigger calling 
around I burned out I felt really lonely 
in the process and I wish I would have 
had the person that I'm trying to 
represent today for the people that are 
going through the same things so I 
decided to start my own business I 
started a podcast in 2019 as well and 
yeah and that's kind of where it all 
started 
that's amazing so you were burned out 
and put together your own protocol for 
yourself that got you healed healthy 
happy and so you know you've got some 
great material so why don't you tell us 
you know specifically 
you say that there's three simple 
questions 
that someone can ask themselves about a 
situation and I'm guessing you had a 
conversation with yourself using these 
three questions so let's talk about 
these three critical questions to assess 
what should you be doing with your life 
yeah 
there are three very simple questions or 
three simple things you can ask yourself 
if you are finding yourself in a 
situation where you don't really know 
what to do next and the Very three 
simple questions are love it leave it or 
change it 
and I've actually heard that in a 
podcast before myself and a deeply 
deeply resonated with me because 
sometimes we struggle so much with 
making a decision or knowing what's next 
and so love it leave it or change it 
it's really simply 
that reminder that you have the power to 
make your own decisions and to to make 
the choices that are aligned with who 
you are as a person and I know that's 
oftentimes easy to say and and harder to 
put into practice but let's break it 
down into these really three simple 
things right so love it very clear so if 
you are in a situation and maybe you've 
been feeling a little frustrated or 
or overwhelmed right ask yourself do I 
love this do I leave it or do I change 
it and maybe the answer is you love it 
you actually love the work that you do 
or you love the person that you're with 
maybe not your single this nurse maybe 
they they are not with somebody at this 
point but 
love it it's sometimes we have to kind 
of go back to the roots and remind 
ourselves why we have been in certain 
places so love it is is powerful 
leave it at the time you know for me 
when I was going through 
this big 
professional questions around what do I 
do next I've been at this company for 
seven and a half years I I get a great 
salary and great benefits and everything 
on the outside seems so perfect 
but do I love it I didn't love it 
anymore so 
I try to change it actually for a very 
long period of time so that that's kind 
of that third question I try to change 
it I try to look for other roles within 
the company I try to look for teams that 
were offering remote positions I was 
looking for other companies outside of 
the company I was thinking about 
starting my own business but it was a 
really scary decision so even though we 
can break it down to these three simple 
questions sometimes the answer itself 
might take a while to get to us or we 
might need some courage and some some 
time to just sit with it right totally 
and then over at the end of the day I 
had to be really honest with myself 
because it affected my physical and 
psychological health so much that 
there was only one option left which was 
leave it and so I left the job and it 
was very difficult at the time and today 
I know it was the best decision I could 
ever make for myself 
and that's so interesting it's really 
powerful do I love it do I leave it or 
do I change it and you have the steering 
wheel dear listener on most situations 
in your life right but there are going 
to be those situations where you don't 
love it but you can't leave it I know 
you talk about that let's talk a little 
bit about that 
um 
well I think the first thing that popped 
into my mind is really that 
responsibility like the victim mindset 
versus the growth mindset it is so easy 
to say it's out of my hands I can't do 
anything about this right and so I 
always challenge my clients and I want 
to challenge your listeners today too if 
they've if you feel like you you don't 
love it but you can't leave it then ask 
yourself what is in your control what is 
in your power to actually make some 
changes around that it could be as 
simple and I'm putting that in 
in quotes in quotes because we all know 
this it sounds simple but we know it's 
not always simple but it can be as 
simple as changing your mindset right 
and to say okay I actually know that I 
don't love it and I don't I don't want 
to leave it but I I need to change 
something about the situation so get the 
power and the control back because 
oftentimes that is what's putting us in 
the highest stress State because we're 
like I really don't really like this and 
we're struggling internally and we're 
spending so much energy we're expending 
so much energy on 
just sitting with these big questions in 
our head 
and so changing it is maybe sitting down 
and asking yourself okay what is outside 
of my control right two simple 
journaling questions but powerful what 
is inside of your control and what is 
outside of your control maybe in your 
control is to let go of 
talking to 50 different people about how 
unhappy you are because imagine and 
think about how much time it actually 
takes to talk with all of these 
different people and it continues to 
make you sad if you're rehashing why 
you're miserable to 50 different people 
right and it puts you it keeps you in 
that state it keeps you in this in that 
state that you're familiar with 
which is why oftentimes we don't change 
because we like the familiarity and our 
brain loves what it's used to 
but 
okay sometimes we need to sit with that 
we can write it down and say okay I'm 
actually consciously making the decision 
to letting to let that go and then you 
can also say to yourself and ask 
yourself okay so what is the outside of 
my control maybe outside of your control 
at the moment is 
you need that job and there's no other 
way for you right so 
you you accept that that is that is your 
current environment or maybe you are 
frustrated because your organization 
just went through another reorg and 
you've had a new manager again and you 
need to learn new skills again right and 
maybe all of these things are really 
frustrating to you but again 
let's focus on the things that are 
within the within your sphere of control 
because that creates more power for 
yourself 
I love that 
um I read a book many years ago that 
because we're talking about work that 
said we you know it's kind of like 
having a romantic partner we expect one 
person to be the end-all be-all of our 
happiness which isn't correct or right 
and a stressful way to think about a 
relationship and we tend to think the 
same thing about our jobs our jobs 
should provide us with purpose and 
meaning and happiness and growth and all 
of these things but the fact of the 
matter is is that for many people a job 
provides them a roof over their head 
money in their bank account and health 
benefits so thinking about what you can 
change if I have to stay in this job 
what are other things that bring me joy 
that I could bring in to my life again 
maybe when you were a kid you were a 
great violin player can you start to 
play the violin again maybe you've 
always wanted to learn to paint so you 
can up level your happiness with the 
situation by accepting that you can't 
change this right now but you can make 
choices for the other 16 hours or I 
guess the other eight hours of your 
waking day to do things that actually 
bring you Joy yeah I love that end 
it can also be within the job so maybe 
it is ask yourself what do you enjoy 
most about your job like bring that back 
into your awareness because you probably 
don't hate everything about your job 
maybe you really enjoy the human 
interaction so in heavily invest in debt 
and create that environment that you 
want to be in so yeah I I love both I 
love that you can do things out outside 
of your job but I think it's also 
important to remind yourself hey what 
are all the good things about this role 
what is something that makes me feel 
really excited maybe even there's 
something that you can take on within 
the company that 
um then brings more joy to your life 
yeah exactly and you know it's 
interesting I Julia last night I had 
dinner with a friend of mine who's a 
prominent CEO in Chicago and we hadn't 
caught up in a couple of years since 
coven and so when we sat down I noticed 
she didn't have a wedding ring on and so 
she said wow we have a lot to catch up 
on that I got divorced during covet and 
she went on to sort of tell me the 
entire story but 
the punch line is she's happier today 
than she's ever been and your three 
questions would have been so impactful 
for her she knew that her marriage was 
not going to work out in 2008 but she 
had a five-year-old daughter and said I 
only know myself as a married person how 
would I get out of this how would I do 
this on my own and so she just continued 
to exist in her marriage until one day 
enough was enough in 2019 and she said 
I'm done got a place for him to move 
into put the keys in his lap and said 
you gotta go and started the divorce 
proceedings and so she finally made the 
decision to change it and to leave it as 
subsequently her career has blossomed 
her love life has blossomed since then 
so sitting down and she would and I know 
she would say God I wish I would have 
had the courage to say I could have had 
all of this 10 years ago I wasted all 
that time so if you can take something 
out of this sometimes leaving it or 
changing it my friend 
is the hard thing and it can bring up so 
much fear of oh my gosh what if this is 
a bad choice what if what if and all the 
Mind monkeys start jumping around but I 
want to tell you if you're in a 
situation like this take this to Heart 
Find the meaning in the mess that's 
presented to you right now and if you 
have the power to change it or to leave 
it really think about my gosh what could 
my new life look like and let that 
inspire you don't sit in fear 
uh left it so much and that's and that's 
a really powerful 
self-discovery tool and I know that you 
wanted to talk a little bit about 
self-discovery as well and 
what you're basically just described is 
visualization right really connecting 
with what is actually your dream I think 
we don't spend enough time on that 
anymore no matter if it is your dream 
partner my mom is actually dating at the 
moment as well she's 62 years old she 
just went for her second divorce and 
she's been dating for a year and it's 
been really interesting to be with her 
on that Journey right from from the 
outside and to kind of give her dating 
advice and all the different things and 
and I said to her mom you should sit 
down and really think about who do you 
actually want to attract into your life 
what kind of qualities does this person 
have and how does he look and what does 
he do and all of these different things 
visualization is important it's it's I 
think it's a little bit a part of 
manifestation maybe as well right but I 
do this and and again you can do this in 
any area of your life that's why I love 
this so much 
because sometimes I also talk to people 
that want a new job and they want a new 
job but they have no idea what they want 
and I say I always say well let's close 
our eyes for a second and just dream 
about what would be the best case 
scenario we know that the best case 
scenario might not always happen but we 
can at least dream about it and work 
towards that and yeah it's it's a 
wonderful tool and I 
I think this is It's really helpful and 
Powerful for people to sit with that 
question 
I love that like what do I want what do 
I want what does your life look like who 
are you in this new life right what do 
you do on a day-to-day basis how do you 
move how do you feel who do you surround 
yourself with all of these 
more specific questions can really help 
you paint the picture of what that life 
that you're trying to bring in actually 
looks like 
and how would you suggest you know I 
asked the question all the time what do 
you want right people can always readily 
tell you what they don't want but what 
do you want is a scary question because 
it makes you get really specific right 
and maybe you haven't sat down because 
you're constantly you know drowning out 
your inside through social media and TV 
and Netflix and Friends where you don't 
actually sit down to reconnect with 
yourself so if this resonates with you I 
want you to ask yourself with regards to 
maybe it's a relationship what do I 
really want who do I really want maybe 
it's work what kind of work do I want to 
be doing maybe it's where you're living 
where would I love to live someday and 
sit down and ask yourself and I don't 
want you to get into the what I what I 
don't want what do you want to really 
kick start that process of 
self-discovery 
hmm 
and it's also interesting to observe 
what resonates with you or what you know 
if you do spend time on social media 
what what do you find attractive no 
matter if it is the life or the person 
right but I remember when I went through 
this big self-discovery Journey myself I 
would say from 2015 to 2018 and of 
course it never stops right but that was 
a very big transitional phase for me 
because I moved from the corporate world 
into entrepreneurship 
and I was commuting between the Bay Area 
here in Silicon Valley San Francisco to 
Tahoe every single week because I wanted 
to be in Lake Tahoe full time that that 
was my dream and it started to become 
more and more apparent that I wanted to 
be here I wanted to be in this place I 
wanted to call it home I wanted to spend 
time outside every single day and be in 
the forest and be by the lake and 
um I was listening I was mentioning that 
at the beginning of our podcast today 
and I was listening to this to a podcast 
to a German podcast actually and from a 
spiritual coach 
and and I started to follow her and her 
journey and and I was thinking to myself 
if I could create the life that I want I 
would live in Tahoe full-time and run my 
own coaching business 
you know and here I am five years later 
and that's what that's I made the stream 
a reality and it it wasn't that I I 
don't know it's it's a very gradual 
process sometimes right it's not like 
today I'm gonna do this and then all 
everything is cleared it took a time to 
to to sit with that and to dream it and 
to slowly kind of move into that 
direction it's it's a beautiful process 
I love that and are there any other 
prompts or things that you can tell us 
besides like what do I want and what do 
I manifest what do I see are there any 
other you know clear prompts that you 
have that could really Grease the wheels 
for us to start to self-discover in a 
more productive way 
yeah 
um I just recently did a YouTube video 
on how to start your self-discovery 
journey 
and as we are chatting Bella I'm 
actually pulling up my notes from that 
podcast episode and from that video 
because I do want to share some more 
specific questions and I know I have 
them 
so 
this is real stuff you guys we're not 
we're not editing this right we're all 
looking we're not editing this exactly 
yeah yeah we're all looking for our 
notes but you know get your notebooks 
out ladies and gentlemen because she's 
gonna drop some gems on you that I think 
even if you feel pretty happy with where 
you are in a variety of aspects I think 
everybody has that one or two pieces 
that we're working on where these 
prompts can really start to help you 
right so here they are 
so when you're starting your 
self-discovery journey you can also ask 
yourself and again you might think oh 
this is a simple question but let's 
really sit it with these questions you 
can ask yourself what do you what do I 
read what do I listen to 
who do I surround myself with what do I 
do on a daily basis 
so four simple questions what do I read 
what do I listen to who do I surround 
myself with and what do I do on a daily 
basis because these four things can give 
you some really powerful insights into 
what do you do right now 
and is that aligned with the life that 
you want to have in the future that 
you're dreaming about that you're 
visualizing or is it not really aligned 
and so I always like to go 
we can visualize and dream but it's also 
powerful to go from a set point or from 
a status quo of okay where am I at right 
now am I happy with that am I already 
investing the time in the people and 
places and and habits and routines that 
that I'm actually really excited about 
and that I know will make me a better 
person or do I not and so it's kind of a 
an honest conversation with yourself to 
say okay 
what's going on right now 
I love that so is it an alignment right 
because if your goals and your dreams 
are you know 
way big for example you know let's say 
your goal is to feel better in your body 
and to be healthier but then when you 
sit down and do an inventory of yourself 
like what do I read Listen to Who Do I 
surround myself with and what do I do on 
a daily basis if it's you know I drive 
my car into a fast food stop twice a day 
I find myself you know polishing off a 
bottle of wine by myself like are these 
things that are in alignment with you 
feeling good in your body and maybe 
that's not a goal for you but really 
taking an honest inventory of what 
you're doing listening to surrounding 
yourself with and who are your friends 
will really help you to go wow maybe 
this is why I feel unhappy or 
unsatisfied or discontented with what 
I'm doing because it's totally out of 
alignment 
um 
yeah totally I have more if you want 
sure 
all right so let's talk about 
visualization again right we talked 
about visualization we talked about 
dreams and visualizing the life that you 
want so here are some specific 
journaling prompts for that what are 
your dreams and what are your goals and 
the third question for those two 
specific questions for me is the most 
powerful one because the next one is how 
does it make you feel when you think 
about these 
I love that so powerful so what are your 
dreams what are your goals how does it 
make you feel when you think about these 
and then in order to maybe maybe you 
don't really know what you should dream 
about because sometimes right we are in 
that state of I'm not really happy but I 
also don't really know what I want so if 
you are in that space you can also ask 
yourself well 
what are your strengths 
what are your weaknesses 
and what are you interested in what what 
lights you on fire and it can be 
different from 
you know I I think back to my late 20s 
or early 30s and then 
every year 
one or two years I started to shift into 
a different area that I was interested 
in right it was yoga for two years and 
it was really coaching for two years and 
um it was 
you know mountain biking maybe for two 
years right so there there's like 
different shifts of things that really 
brought me joy and that's okay as well 
it's not like you're making a decision 
and it has to be the decision that you 
have made for the rest of your life but 
it's okay to reinvent yourself and to 
find new ways that bring you Joy yeah 
it's okay to have a right now plan right 
right now I would like to live in Lake 
Tahoe that doesn't mean that you're 
handcuffed to Tahoe forever you made the 
move and what that does is it builds 
your confidence muscle it's saying okay 
if I got to Tahoe and that was my dream 
and maybe someday you'll say you know 
I'd really like to get back to Dublin 
right that you know you could build a 
bridge for yourself to get back there 
again so I love I love this and let's 
you know talk a little bit I love one of 
um I love your work around 
self-love and self care and I love one 
of the things that you started with and 
I'm going straight from memory is well 
why don't first why don't we start with 
defining what you feel self-love is we 
all talk about loving ourselves right 
and at the end of the day 
I like myself I don't love everything 
about myself you know singles will ask 
me all the time well Bella how do I know 
if I'm ready to date if I'm supposed to 
love myself first do I or don't I so 
let's go with your definition of 
self-love and then how we can love 
ourselves better 
okay 
I love this question and you're gonna 
love the answer I hope but I do want to 
start actually the answer with a little 
story so in 2020 
um my at that time fiancee 
um cheated on me and we decided to break 
up it was already the second time he had 
done it 
and I'm gonna go find him don't worry 
Julia okay go ahead and it brought me 
into a spiral it was a really powerful 
powerful time for me 
um a very painful time a bit big 
heartbreak 
um we had just gotten a dog together we 
just moved into a beautiful house 
together and six months later all of 
these things happened and so it's put me 
in a very 
healing space for a long period of time 
I'd say a year and a half two years 
until I felt like I was myself again 
um but through that heartbreak I think 
the biggest realization was that I am 
not I wasn't really loving myself or 
right when things like that happen to 
you you ask yourself all of the big 
questions right like why it was I not 
laughed why did this happen to me um am 
I not worthy of love you know you lose 
your self-confidence you lose your 
self-love and so 
in that time I had to really learn to 
love myself and to do the things that 
are good for me because I was 
very badly heartbroken and sad and 
and it was very difficult to navigate 
through so every day right because when 
they say when you go through a 
heartbreak it's it's harder you know 
even though you know you might be better 
in six to 12 months you still have to go 
through day by day at the beginning of 
the pain when you're going through it so 
every day 
I woke up and I asked myself the 
question 
what do I need right now to feel just 
one percent better 
and it was so difficult at the beginning 
right because you get used to being 
alone again and to build a life again 
and 
all of the things right and so and some 
days I had good days and some days I had 
very heavy days right very emotional 
days and 
that was for me 
really the start of a beautiful 
self-loving journey of really listening 
to what do I need right now and at the 
beginning I think when we were 
practicing that or when we're starting 
to build maybe more of a self-love 
muscle we might not even have an answer 
we might we might not even know what the 
answer is to what do I need right now 
right maybe the answer is I need a hug 
or maybe the answer is I want to be with 
this person again right right 
it was kind of that safe space right 
into the Comfort space 
um and so for me 
self-love is still very different from 
self-care because I think you can do 
things for yourself 
but they might not it might not really 
translate into loving yourself 
um and I think for me self-love goes 
goes a lot deeper into 
how do you talk to yourself 
um 
how do you listen to really to really 
your needs right like we all know and I 
work with a lot of high Achievers and 
Peak performers we can push ourselves 
hard right we are not really honest with 
ourselves we push ourselves to work 
super hard or we push ourselves to work 
out super hard right and it's not really 
the it's not really aligned with 
with what I really what what I really my 
soul kind of needs and so self-love is a 
deep practice of 
listening to your needs and giving 
yourself what you need first before 
you're giving it to anyone else and I 
truly do believe that the more love you 
have for yourself 
you can love anyone in a way right I 
think you probably talk about this as 
well do you yeah yeah yeah for sure and 
sometimes loving yourself is in the way 
of 
um treatment that you will and won't 
accept from others again right and and 
having those kind of boundaries where 
you know I am better off loving myself 
and being enveloped in the love of my 
friends my family than to be with a 
romantic partner who doesn't love me or 
treat me well it's better to be without 
that person but I know sometimes we get 
into that state where we get addicted to 
that kind of love and we don't even and 
because we haven't said who am I what 
does love feel like to me and we're like 
a black hole and this person can do 
whatever [ __ ] they want to do and we'll 
take it and we'll take it and we'll take 
it because we're afraid what happens 
when that love is gone but what we start 
to see when we go through that painful 
healing process that wasn't love at all 
right so true and that was I think that 
healing process that I had to go through 
myself in that self-love practice of 
forgiving myself two of staying in a 
relationship that already had very clear 
signals of not being actually healthy 
love 
um but like you said like we're getting 
addicted or we are we're making 
ourselves dependent on a person and 
it's it's it's I understand how 
difficult it is to break that pattern 
um and at the same time 
it's the best thing you can do for 
yourself ever because once you have that 
self-confidence and you have healed 
within yourself you can show up so 
differently 
in another relationship you know in a 
new relationship absolutely and you know 
that's our super power at helping people 
navigate from that to make sure that 
they don't get in caught in the spiral 
of what feels comfortable all over again 
and looking for that addiction kind of 
love right and we become codependent on 
that so that's totally the realm that 
we're holding our clients hands one by 
one and helping them navigate that 
process now back to self-love I watched 
one of your videos and I love something 
that you talk about with regards to 
self-love it's so 
um it's profound and we don't do this 
and you say make a list of the things 
that you love about yourself 
can you talk a little bit about your 
process 
yeah 
I think this is one of the right it's 
similar to the visualization piece of 
like what are you dreaming about or like 
the the inventory checklist right so 
first of all 
we we need to reconnect with ourselves 
and so when you are when you are maybe 
listening to this podcast today and you 
think 
yeah definitely resonates with me I'm 
not really practicing yourself if I 
don't even really know where to start 
it is a really good 
place to start with just well what do 
you love about yourself and maybe what 
are you unhappy with right 
um and trust me every single person has 
things that 
they love about themselves and things 
that they're not so happy with right you 
can look at the most beautiful 
supermodel and they will they will have 
things they they can put in both of 
these categories 
and so 
first of all it's a beautiful practice 
to celebrate yourself a little bit and 
to sit with and to sit with that 
knowledge and that insight 
and then it might also be a really good 
indicator of okay 
what is it that you can still work on 
right so if maybe for example something 
comes up 
where you're like oh I would really like 
to feel healthier well what is one step 
in that direction that you can take in 
order to practice that self-love right 
because investing in yourself is is 
always 
it's so Priceless I just invested in a 
business coach this summer and it blew 
my mind again of you know how much when 
you invest in yourself 
you you learn about yourself and you 
grow and it's it's all a self-love 
practice and it's a growth practice and 
the more you learn and understand 
yourself that's why I love personal 
development so much 
but it's so powerful I always say to my 
clients the most powerful thing you can 
do is invest in yourself when you love 
yourself you have self-confidence and 
when you're self-confident you can 
conquer the world because you don't have 
to be perfect at anything that you that 
you know right or you have to go into 
the job interview with the perfect 
answers but when you are self-confident 
and you know who you are and you can 
also laugh about your imperfections and 
say well maybe I didn't know this answer 
or maybe 
you know for me as a German in an 
English-speaking country I don't always 
find the perfect words sometimes right 
but I can laugh about this and I 
couldn't always laugh about this 
and 
but that confidence 
makes you attract people and that's and 
it's it's a very very powerful energy 
that once you've kind of found the 
secret and the key to that it will it 
will never go away again 
I love that yeah you're so right you're 
so right and you're right it fuels 
confidence so if you first make this 
list of the things that you love about 
yourself okay so now we're staring at 
this list what do we do next 
mm-hmm 
like I said I think you you should 
celebrate yourself 
um 
and 
I think honestly self-love is an ongoing 
lifelong journey you know and that list 
might change over time so now that you 
have that list in front of you 
that is your list that's your inventory 
that's that's who you are you know and 
maybe you want to put more emphasis on 
the things that you love about yourself 
as well right so maybe it's like 
do something that that's good for you I 
don't think that there's necessarily 
like a next action item of like okay 
once I have this list of things 
um now that there's something specific 
that I need to do put you can pin it on 
the wall if you want you can pin it on 
your fridge you know have it somewhere 
where you can see that on a regular 
basis and where you can celebrate that 
we and you know I I always say this 
because I know that when you hear these 
things for the first time maybe you may 
think you might think oh this sounds 
kind of silly to put that list on the 
wall or put it on the fridge but 
it has so much power like these these 
positive insights and and having a more 
positive outlook on yourself rather than 
constantly thinking about 
the bad things because we we all know 
that we are critical enough and we have 
enough self-talk negative self-talk 
oftentimes about the things that we 
don't love about ourselves so why not 
celebrate the other side and bring that 
more into our Consciousness because our 
brain is wired to think negatively and 
to to have a you know yeah survival bias 
and so 
your brain will always show you the 
negative things anyway so why not train 
your brain and the muscle because your 
brain at the end of the day is a muscle 
as well to think more positively that's 
right and I love this you guys listen to 
this I want you to sit down with paper 
and pen and I want you to make a list 
put some good music on pour yourself a 
cup of tea or a glass of wine or 
whatever is your jam and sit down and 
make a list of all of the things that 
you love about yourself okay and I want 
you especially you smart daters or 
people that are out there in the dating 
world really to look at this list like 
Julia is saying on a daily basis because 
these are your assets and these are the 
things that you love about yourself and 
if someone doesn't appreciate those and 
ask you out for another date who cares 
bless and release them ultimately 
because you are a rock star and you've 
got a whole lot of good stuff going on 
and sometimes to flip away from the oh 
my gosh why didn't this person want to 
see me again to help with that look back 
at your list of all the things that are 
amazing about yourself and put that love 
and that self-confidence back in your 
step so you have the courage to maybe 
keep swiping on the apps creating your 
dating board of directors asking people 
for setups being engaging with people 
looking at people smiling when you're in 
airports and wherever you are but really 
and the root of that comes from 
believing that you are worthy and you 
100 are so I can't wait to see your 
lists of what you guys come up with and 
certainly send us your lists at Smart 
dating Academy we want to celebrate you 
and when I get your list I'll share them 
in my Instagram stories I want you to 
really think about the things that you 
love about yourself and maybe it's 
compliments that you get from other 
people like people always tell me I look 
super Chic or whatever that is and write 
down the positive attributes and be able 
to fight the negativity and going to the 
dark side by looking at that list and 
keeping it in your handbag put it on 
your car dashboard put it on your 
bathroom mirror I don't care but I want 
you to look at it every single day 
yeah 
that's powerful or you can write the 
list with a lipstick on your mirror oh 
girl you are singing I tell my clients 
we have a philosophy called psychotic 
optimism at Smart dating Academy and so 
one day I was on Instagram live and I 
was on fire and I was like I want you 
all to be in your most psychotically 
optimistic State and our motto is love 
will come to me it's a when it's not an 
if right it's coming we just have to 
believe that it's out there and I'm like 
put a Post-It note on your computer 
write it with red lipstick on your 
mirror and if you do it send it to me 
people were sending me photos love will 
come to me it's a win on their bathroom 
mirrors it elated me beyond my short 
five foot three stature 
it's super powerful I had an affirmation 
on my mural when I was going through my 
heartbreak 
um I'm trying to remember what it was it 
was something around I'm worthy of Love 
um and it's cool because again when you 
really practice these things and you 
actually realize how often you go to the 
bathroom to go pee during the day 
especially if you're working from home 
you see this every single time and it is 
really this like subconscious thing that 
is starting to trickle into your brain 
to be like yeah I am worthy of love and 
love will find you you know it's just a 
matter of when it will happen 
absolutely so you know um truth be told 
I haven't put a list together of the 
things that I like about myself and it 
almost makes me blush as I think about 
that but I'm going to do this when I get 
off this podcast with you while it's in 
my mind 
okay I love that well take us on 
Instagram story and we'll share it and 
hopefully people will join in absolutely 
I love that I love that idea and you 
know Julia any 
um 
any other 
gems that you want to drop on the Smart 
dating Academy audience 
well I think one last thing that's been 
a little bit on my mind 
is one thing around self-confidence 
which is 
oftentimes especially when we are 
feeling stressed no matter where the 
stress comes from if it is from work or 
from not feeling super worthy or from 
going on dates and not really finding 
the right partner and that puts you in 
this kind of negative self-talk spiral 
we experience higher levels of stress 
and you know stress is kind of my Gem 
and stress is like my passion I love to 
talk about it and I'm very passionate 
about the Neuroscience of it all 
um and one of the biggest realizations 
that I've had on my with myself and then 
of course with a lot of people that I've 
worked with is this that the higher 
stress levels we have the more in the 
stress side we are the more we look to 
our external world to validate us and to 
recognize us and to make us feel better 
and 
it goes back to everything that we 
talked about today Bella but I do want 
to very make this very very clear that 
it is normal that we do do that 
unfortunately that we do kind of start 
to look at the external world to 
validate us no matter if it is our 
partner or our family or our manager or 
our friends 
and so you have the power and it goes 
back you know this is kind of closing 
the circle today it's it's going back to 
having a growth mindset and reminding 
yourself that you have the power to take 
that power back by simply creating 
awareness that oh this is what's 
happening right now I am actually 
looking everywhere but inside of me to 
get love why do you do that because once 
you love yourself 
that confidence that it will speak 
volumes for itself you know and then 
it's so much such a much more powerful 
space to visualize from to manifest from 
to to Dream from right so if you find 
yourself in that state if you do feel 
like oh yeah I'm doing that right now 
here's your powerful reminder that 
create awareness around that stop that 
behavior bring it back to yourself write 
a list of the things that you love about 
yourself pin it on your mirror and then 
practice that because the more you can 
stand in your own power the more other 
people will see that within you as well 
I love that so much and Julie you are 
you told me before the call that you 
have a planner like tell us is this like 
encompassing all of the things that you 
are prompting people to do or tell us 
what we should do should we yeah get the 
plan so the yeah so I'll show you the 
Peak Performance planner it looks like 
this it comes actually into a course and 
in White And so there's two different 
color options so you can get it on 
Amazon and I created the planner because 
I love I am a planner and I love 
planning and I love journaling I talk 
about that all the time for 
self-discovery and self-development and 
growth and 
it's I feel like I started this business 
and in my head I was like I need to 
create a planner and so the Peak 
Performance planner is to create 
awareness and to build new habits 
um it is centered it and this is not 
really focused on work as such it's 
really more about yourself about 
where you're at who you are and and what 
you're currently doing on a day-to-day 
basis that that makes you happy and what 
maybe leads to you not being so happy so 
there's actually it's a 
um it's with journaling prompts so there 
is a daily weekly and monthly 
reflection their reflection pages so I 
can show it to you Bella because I know 
that you said that you were curious 
about it too so there's the daily 
planner looks like this okay guys for 
those of you listening to this in your 
car there's lots of words in this 
planner and lots of blank spaces for you 
to write things down exactly which looks 
really amazing and I need to get better 
at journaling I'm really good when I 
Journal so your planner looks like 
something I'm going to invest in yeah 
yeah and so it has the daily planner it 
has always journaling prompts for the 
morning and then for the evening and 
then for the week it's the same idea 
where you reflect your the whole week 
and then you plan for the week and then 
we have the same for the month as well 
um and 
you know one of the most powerful things 
I've done in my life in this 
self-discovery journey was to journal 
because I think when you really reflect 
on yourself and you sit with these 
questions you don't just listen to a 
podcast which is great that's the first 
step but but then you get these prompts 
that we shared with you today and then 
you really sit down and you take five to 
ten minutes and you invest that time in 
yourself you practice that self-love in 
a way right because those insights will 
really help you to to decide on what is 
the next step and I I love kind of 
building these muscles and this 
awareness because that that action will 
help you to become a better person 
I love that and is it a year planner or 
a month what is it six months six months 
okay six months all right you guys I'll 
put a link to the Peak Performance 
planner in the show notes and we can you 
know get to our Peak Performance and 
support Julia and her planner so Julia 
you've been amazing I'm so glad we're 
connected 
um I consider you a new friend and I 
hope to see you when you're in Chicago 
yeah I would love that let's make it 
happen all right well thank you again 
and smart daters for those of you who 
have been immersed in this episode can I 
love it leave it or change it right if 
you're not in love with your dating life 
if you have nothing to leave because 
you're sitting out there single and you 
want to change something think about 
what you can do this week to change 
something in your dating life to change 
yourself for the better right and to 
know that you have the power inside of 
you to take your power back like we 
talked about today so with that I bid 
you farewell well until next week have a 
beautiful week filled with psychotic 
optimism and extra points if you write 
love will come to me it's a when not an 
if and lipstick on your mirror send it 
and I will share it all over the planet 
all right talk to you all later see ya 
