[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back I hope I hope 
you've had an amazing week and this has 
been a really special week for me 
personally because for those of you who 
might have been following me on Facebook 
or Instagram you know that May 17th Andy 
my husband and I celebrated our 26 year 
wedding anniversary 
26 years can you believe that I can't 
believe that so what we thought we would 
do was based on a gift that Andy gave to 
me last year on our 25th anniversary and 
it was called secrets from 25 years with 
the perfect maid and it was so so 
special 
um we clearly didn't get to it on our 
25th anniversary so we added one more to 
the list but what we want to share with 
you truly is people ask us all the time 
like you guys got married so young 
you've made it work for 26 years so we 
sat down and really thought about things 
we thought would help you whether you're 
single whether you're out there dating 
whether you're in a new relationship to 
really think about how a great 
relationship can function and how you 
can do your best to be the best partner 
maybe to yourself right now as you're 
out there dating you can be the best 
partner to new people that you're coming 
across in the dating world or great 
partner to the Future love of your life 
the lid to your pot and I'm so excited 
to have my dearest lid to my pot the 
only lid to my pot Andrew Anna cone here 
with me welcome to the podcast I can't 
believe this is your first time on I 
don't think it's the first time on I 
think I've been here before you've not 
been on the podcast oh we've done the 
Instagram live that's right we haven't 
done I've not done the podcast well I'm 
happy to be here and crazy and by the 
way just wanted you to know I called you 
perfect in that in that thing from last 
year so here we are we're just off of a 
photo shoot that we did to commemorate 
the anniversary that was Bella's idea it 
was a great idea uh and uh she looked 
phenomenal oh all these years and so 
here we are you guys see you want to 
partner that sees the best in you and is 
affirmative I mean we were you know kind 
of 
thinking about what was an experience 
that we could do to really make this a 
special anniversary again kind of drop 
the ball on the 25th anniversary right 
but that's what a good partner does they 
forgive you should have done so right 
exactly so now we did it this year but 
if you can one thing I would tell you to 
do is do a photo shoot you know whether 
it's with yourself your family your 
friends we don't do these things enough 
and while it seemed like it was a little 
bit of a pain in the patootie to get 
ready and to do it and for those of you 
who haven't seen the photos 
um we'll post we'll post a page on the 
website so you can actually see our love 
story and the inspiring love stories but 
we wore the same clothes that we wore 
for our wedding well actually I wore my 
wedding dress Andy had a new suit 
because he's smaller now than he was 
then so that suit wouldn't even his tux 
wouldn't have fit him and we just had 
the biggest blast just dressing up and 
running all over Chicago and doing 
photos and so what I can tell you is 
that do this for yourself okay do a 
photo shoot for yourself if you're in 
Smart dating Academy of course you come 
to our studio and you do our photographs 
but it's such a rewarding experience 
it's not often that you and I are on the 
other side of the camera having somebody 
direct us and take pictures of us and it 
was so fun and it's great memories and 
I'm really glad that you brought it up 
that that was such a a wonderful memory 
for us what was hilarious is there we 
are walking down the street you and your 
wedding gown the original wedding gown I 
might add and we kept getting 
congratulations everyone would look at 
us say oh thinking we're getting married 
for the first time someone even ran out 
of a door and gave us glasses of 
champagne to come commemorate which was 
kind of funny uh but I guess that's what 
happens when you walk down the street on 
a Tuesday afternoon in a wedding gown 
yeah y'all I had no idea walking out I 
got into an Uber X in a white dress and 
this dude looked at me like lady do you 
what's going on here when I got out of 
this Uber people it I didn't realize how 
how you sort of stop all traffic around 
you when you're walking around randomly 
by yourself without an Entourage and a 
long white dress so yeah kind of funny 
um but an amazing experience so what we 
want to tell you guys today like I said 
is maybe we're gonna save the seven to 
ten things that really have made us 
stay together you know besides being 
committed to our commitment right and I 
think that that's such an important 
thing we of course through 26 years of 
being married and we were together four 
years before we got married right that's 
30 years so you can imagine we've 
weathered some high highs we've also 
weathered some low lows and as Andy's 
showing us the 26-year photo for for 
those of you you can't see this maybe 
you'll be watching it in the real but 
um we've had some high highs and we've 
had some low lows also you know we you 
know lost a pregnancy at 15 weeks and 
had to go through an excruciating 
procedure to to you know remedy that and 
it was brutal and even during those 
darkest days when you think you'll never 
smile again and the tears never stop 
flowing going and you weather those 
kinds of tragedies when you are together 
and you turn inward towards each other 
you can make it through those through 
through those 30 years right so the 
first thing you wrote on your list let's 
get back to this is what well let's 
let's take a step back first of all why 
did I put this together last year and I 
think we're by the way this year I had a 
26th which we'll get to in a minute but 
why did I put this together I think the 
reason I did is at a meta level I 
realized that over all this time being 
married 
uh we've learned we've learned a whole 
lot about what it takes to be a good 
partnership and I've learned a 
tremendous amount about how to be a good 
partner and uh and I realize that over 
over the years there are all these 
lessons that have come into my mind and 
it just seemed to make sense to put it 
all together and put it all in one place 
uh so that I can relearn it and keep it 
top of mind and teach our kids the those 
learnings Etc and so that's really why I 
did it and you know it was 25 things 
that that I thought were really made the 
difference when in any relationship and 
certainly personally for us and the 
first one is marry your best friend and 
for those who don't know our story that 
is in fact what we were before we got 
married we were best friends uh really 
through high school and even in college 
uh and then something clicked and and 
there we were but that has made all the 
difference uh because it's not just 
about the you know the fairy tale 
romance it's really about being each 
other's best friend through thick and 
thin the ability to talk to each other 
about anything about life about 
philosophy about 
business uh about friendships and other 
friendships and really that's at the 
root of everything and so that was 
clearly the first the first one what do 
you think yeah I I couldn't agree more I 
mean I've told this story probably 
multiple times on this podcast how did 
we get together right I we Andy the the 
good part of knowing each other through 
high school and colleges we have no 
skeletons so he knows you know the 
various revolving tour of characters 
that I dated or I don't know we should 
put she's shaking his head right now 
dated in quotes maybe temporarily dated 
long-term dated some were great 
everybody gets some Mulligans some were 
not so great and and I 
kind of got my own mental house in order 
my senior year of college you know as I 
had dated enough people that gave me 
butterflies you guys know has devoted 
podcast listeners what I have to say 
about butterflies everybody that gave me 
butterflies in my stomach when I dated 
them ended up you know putting me flat 
on my back staring up at the ceiling 
going how the hell am I in this much 
pain all over again so I realized the 
people that gave me butterflies aren't 
good for me and who are the people in my 
life that make me happiest right and it 
was the first person I would call in the 
morning the person I would tell 
virtually anything to about anything 
that was heavy on my mind anything that 
I was celebrating and the person that I 
would either close down the bar with or 
talk to late at night and I realized 
that he was the first elevator person 
that I identified in my life so in 
addition to saying marry somebody that 
is your your best friend or could become 
your best friend you know we talk a lot 
about elevator people at Smart dating 
Academy so really understanding what 
that is for you somebody who elevates 
you who lifts you up who makes you one 
thing they make you happy right and 
that's really I think marry your best 
friend Marian elevator person but I 
think that a truly deep connected 
friendship is the root to any long-term 
relationship including a romantic one 
yeah and you know I certainly went 
through my own cast of characters 
through that time and it you know as we 
were best friends we would counsel each 
other on each other's significant others 
right it was It was kind of hilarious 
and we learned a lot about each other 
even through that process and you know 
for those who have listened to Bella 
talk about uh dating and what it takes 
to be successful and all of that one of 
the best ways I think she says to talk 
about how you know when when it's when 
it's right is it just feels easy the 
relationship feels easy and I think that 
is what really brought us together at 
that first point is that there we were 
best friends 
starting to develop romantic feelings 
for each other and it felt natural and 
it felt easy and it was really the great 
Foundation but of course that was only 
the beginning from there we've had 25 
years 26 years now of a relationship and 
it's not just it's just not just falling 
in love and getting together but now 
it's about living together and building 
a partnership over time and those are 
the remainder of the 25 things that I 
wrote last year right and you know Andy 
and I were talking about this before we 
before we hopped on to record this 
podcast is so many people think that 
marriage and relationships you know are 
about dating somebody great on paper and 
these relationships ultimately it's like 
I want someone who makes a lot of money 
I want someone who has a c-suite title I 
want someone who's 20 years younger than 
me and a lot of these relationships that 
we're seeing now at our age as our kids 
are getting older a lot of these 
relationships are breaking up and ending 
in divorce right now and having these 
relationships that become more 
transactional where you lose the 
friendship right that is really 
um that is really can be the death now 
to any relationship so think about this 
as you're out there dating is this 
person that you're dating do you feel 
safe with them is it easy can you tell 
them what's heavy on your mind what you 
want to celebrate because that is 
ultimately what's going to stand the 
test of time and that kind of brings me 
into the second point that Andy wrote on 
this beautiful list it's actually Point 
number 12. so we're just skipping around 
here for your best benefit and skipping 
the ones that are more personal for us 
but what he wrote was believe in each 
other's integrity and intention 
and for those of you again who have been 
following me for a while you know that I 
always say in any relationship before 
you go back to your triggers before you 
start spewing out Venom 
assume positive intent from the person 
that you're with and this is so crucial 
in any relationship you're in but 
especially your romantic relationship do 
do you think the person that has chosen 
to say I do to you or chosen to share a 
bed with you chosen to make a life with 
you do you think they want to hurt you 
if that if you do think they want to 
hurt you then maybe this is a really bad 
relationship for you but really think 
about that does this person want to hurt 
me no yeah it really applies to any 
relationship like you just said I mean 
we've all received sort of a bad a bad 
email from from our boss right at some 
point in time and then you think well 
wait what is that and a lot of times the 
wrong response is to immediately respond 
and react out and react uh and 
oftentimes people say look take a minute 
reflect about it let your emotional 
grounding take root and then go back and 
and respond in a measured way in the 
right way and when you're talking about 
your your long-term partner 
uh romantic partner boy the wrong thing 
to do is start off assuming bad intent 
you really should always think about 
positive intention and really think 
about that because all it does is create 
a heartache and and bad bad action 
especially this this can come up early 
in a relationship where you just maybe 
got together or just got married and 
you're still learning about each other 
it's easy to bring those those demons to 
the table but know that 
you're together for a reason and it's 
all positive and to that point and this 
is really hard to do in that moment 
right especially when somebody hurts 
your feelings ask that person wow 
um after you assume positive intent and 
say when I saw that look on your face it 
made me think you were angry at me when 
you sent me that note it made me think I 
did something to annoy you did is is 
that a story I'm telling myself did I 
get your intention correct give the 
other person the benefit of the doubt 
before you to some extent you guys where 
you bring your past to your present okay 
I grew up in a household we didn't talk 
about feelings my family is really close 
now my parents were immigrants you know 
and they weren't raised by parents that 
had them talk about feelings so in our 
house either you shouted at each other 
you fought or you stonewalled and you 
shut down and you dealt with it on your 
own so this whole talking about your 
feelings in a constructive way giving 
people the benefit of the doubt not 
bearing things this was all new to me 
these are skills that I learned in this 
marriage and obviously through you know 
becoming a better leader at Smart dating 
Academy as well and you really have to 
understand where did I come from right 
and if you know you've got to turn that 
mirror in towards yourself and this is 
one of the most important things that we 
can do in any relationship is most of us 
can turn that mirror outward you did 
this you did that you had bad intentions 
here you hurt me here but if you 
actually take that mirror and turn it 
180 degrees and you put it on yourself 
what was my contribution to this did I 
give this person the benefit of the 
doubt did I put my dukes up and punch 
this person in the face right what what 
are my wounds what are my triggers and 
if I can tell you as a corollary to that 
assuming positive intent and believing 
in each other's Integrity examine 
yourself put that mirror back to 
yourself and you've got those triggers 
you've got those wounds believe me I've 
got a whole bunch how about you oh 
completely yeah they're all there and 
yeah what you're saying is exactly right 
you start with understanding it's really 
about taking yourself out of that 
situation and not letting any signals or 
triggers uh push the conversation or the 
conflict in the wrong direction instead 
it's about contextualizing everything 
truly as you say understanding yourself 
and what you're bringing to the table 
and then enabling that conflict and that 
discussion to move on the merits for the 
right reasons and the more you do that 
intentionally the more it really pays 
off in dividends and I'll tell you what 
you guys when we first got married there 
was no Playbook we were young kids in 
our young 20s we didn't practice a lot 
of these things we didn't come into this 
you know stage about how to be married 
heck you're a finance person I was 
running a manufacturing company at this 
point we made all of the mistakes we've 
used all of the harsh words right the 
household I grew up in it was okay to 
blow up and explode that's what I was 
used to and I started to realize your 
words are like knives right you can say 
harsh words they will never ever help 
you and you know what they do they leave 
scars on your partner's skin why do that 
right really examine your own responses 
and be honest with yourself and if you 
need help around those get the help do 
the work the way to get a great partner 
is to be become a great partner 
now let's move on to the third point 
that you circled on here Andy said 
although your life Partners or dating 
partners or boyfriend girlfriend or 
girlfriend girlfriend whatever you are 
you need to be individuals too tell us 
about this what that is is a recognition 
that we're we've come together and again 
as as Bella just mentioned these are all 
things that we didn't know when we first 
got married but oh hell no earned over 
time yeah that's also why I wanted to 
Chronicle all these in that in that note 
to you last year 
but this is a recognition that we really 
are individuals at the same time as 
we're partners and that is a really 
important thing because what I've seen 
in others uh not work out well is when 
one or the other are only focused on the 
other person and not really focused at 
all on also actualizing themselves but I 
think one thing that you and I have done 
really really well over over time is is 
help each other become better humans 
individuals and by doing that it's 
actually brought us closer together 
certainly I've done that with you 
building your business you've done the 
same thing with me building mine and all 
of that has been really really 
productive and it's a spillover effect 
that uh it unwittingly helps the 
relationship get better too 100 I mean 
some of my darkest days were between in 
2006 and 2009 where I left my career at 
axon Nobel and it was a great career and 
I unplugged and I wanted to do this but 
I didn't know how to get there and there 
were some pretty I called those years 
the dark years and walking through that 
dark tunnel and finally when I emerged 
from the tunnel and I stopped worrying 
about failing and I stopped worrying 
about my God what if the state coaching 
thing doesn't take off what are people 
going to think about me if I fail and I 
found that conference to attend for 
dating coaches and matchmakers Andy was 
the first person who said to me he's 
like invest in it Go and it cost me you 
know thousands of dollars to go do that 
I didn't even have a business card right 
but I wanted to kick the tires and see 
if I could do this and he's like of 
course you're gonna of course you can go 
go do this see if you want to 
be a dating coach and as soon as I came 
home from that weekend you all know me 
when I go into something what happens 
you're all in I'm all in I go deep and I 
just keep digging I'm like a dog with 
the bone and from that day on in October 
of 2009 that was the birth of Smart 
dating Academy but really understanding 
that I needed to carry my own weight in 
those dark years Andy did the best he 
could to help me and to encourage me but 
I had to realize I'm an individual and I 
have to pull my own weight and I have to 
do the things that make me happy and 
while he could support that he couldn't 
single-handedly make me happy as good of 
a husband as he was for those three 
years I had to do my work and remember 
that I am an individual and a partner in 
this relationship and ultimately I am 
responsible for my own happiness and I 
knew 
I'm happier when I'm working I'm a 
better wife I'm a better Mom I'm a 
better daughter I'm a better friend when 
I have an outside Pursuit outside of my 
house so you have to realize that you 
have the responsibility for your own 
individual happiness and think about the 
opposite of this right think about when 
one of the two partners is not in a good 
place uh what does that really mean well 
what that means is that other person is 
not confident that person is falling 
that person is you know may even fall 
into depression all these kinds of 
things right and so the the the future 
and the success of the partnership 
really needs to rest on two solid 
Pillars of Strength and then from there 
you can go off and build a good 
partnership but if you don't have that 
if one of those pillars is is not strong 
then it can it can lead to it can 
threaten the entire relationship right 
and so what I've realized is it's really 
important to help each other be those 
strong pillars individually because that 
is what really drives success yeah 100 
and you want to help strengthen your 
partner But ultimately again turn that 
mirror back to yourself your partner 
cannot do everything for you they can 
support you they can want you to get 
better they'll lend you a hand to get 
out of the well but ultimately you've 
got to take the hand and you've got to 
be able to do the work to get out of the 
well so always remember that the 
stronger your individual selves are the 
stronger your relationship will be 
let's move on to the next one next one's 
about conflict it's a good thing to know 
that we never fight uh no no conflict 
whatsoever here oh my God hold on the 
lightning is gonna strike the liar who's 
sitting next to me 
well what I wrote here was really 
something simple it's not broad although 
it definitely reflects all conflict but 
it basically says never escalate an 
argument that's hard 
it is really really it's hard it's 
freaking hard especially when you've 
been together for 30 years and you guys 
we basically we've known each other 
forever so do you think we know each 
other's hot buttons do you think we know 
what each other's pain points are ABS 
freaking lutely and do you think it 
takes restraint sometimes when you are 
hurt to not go to those places 
absolutely and the key thing and I think 
that we've been better at this for the 
last 10 years I mean look 
let's Andy and I come from incredibly 
different backgrounds culturally 
religiously 
um you know just parentally our parents 
are so different are and we bring these 
two incredibly different ways of being I 
am the product of my nature and my 
nurture he is the product of his nature 
and nurture and how he grew up and how I 
grew up and if you don't think that 
there's conflicts when you put two 
people together to navigate two big 
careers two teenagers a house it's it is 
a pipe dream to think that you will not 
have conflict yeah you'll always have 
conflict every day you'll have conflict 
hopefully not every day but some days 
there's some right right but some 
conflicts are small like what do you 
want to do do you want to go out to eat 
or do you want to stay home right well I 
want to stay home well I really want to 
go out to eat right those are little 
little C conflicts but then there are 
Big C conflicts right and we all know 
what those are where we're worried about 
money where we're worried about aging 
parents where we're worried about what 
our teenagers are doing and how they're 
grading on the last molecules in our 
body and these conflicts can be brought 
up by other people in our lives right 
right and now what does it really mean 
to not escalate a conflict I think what 
that means and you've taught me this 
what that means is sometimes you know 
sometimes a conflict is is very very 
pressing and you have to get to it right 
away but most most of the time the 
conflict just exists in The Ether and 
the best thing to do is take a step away 
take a step away allow things to settle 
allow 
yourself time to reflect on what's going 
on what Demons back to an earlier Point 
what demons are we each bringing to the 
table 
and really get to the core of what's 
going on and take the emotion out of it 
and the time often allows for that to 
happen and if you rely on the earlier 
point we made that really let's believe 
in each other's integrity and intention 
it allows you to take these steps in a 
better way because the argument when you 
don't believe in the intention really 
would go out would spiral out of control 
because you don't know what they're 
getting at but if you really come back 
to that earlier point this is about the 
best intentions you can get to a better 
place 
here's the here's an easy thing to do 
yeah we have conflicts right and 
sometimes it's you know our kids aren't 
home for curfew when they say they're 
going to be and one of us like well 
let's just forget about it how can we 
forget about it and at the end of the 
day whatever is the pebble in your shoe 
just 
have a rule where anybody can press 
pause and you know the goal is not to be 
right the goal you'll never if your goal 
in an argument is to be right and to win 
you will lose the relationship 
the goal is to resolve the conflict and 
to make each other whole and to feel 
better and to figure out a best path 
forward the goal is not to be right when 
you find yourself wanting to be right 
you've got a knife in your hand and if 
you're going to argue at all costs to 
prove that you're right 
you're going to lose the relationship 
and is that what you want press pause 
and I will say this and I'm probably the 
big pause caller in this family would 
you agree out of the four of us oh well 
you've taught us all about about this 
and I think it's really been productive 
and again it didn't start on day one no 
no but I think that's something that you 
have brought to the table 
um and I think what you're also talking 
about you you made me think of yet 
another I'm going to add another one 
that we're going to talk about today 
that wasn't on our list it was your 
equal partners and the reason I bring 
this up is your point a second ago about 
wanting to be right I think oftentimes 
there's a dynamic in relationships where 
people are aware of the power Dynamic 
and if I give in here I'm going to lose 
power and if I lose power I'm gonna not 
get my way going forward and it's a very 
very destructive way to think about this 
if you think about yourselves instead as 
equal Partners in this relationship it's 
a lot of responsibility there but it 
also means that you are sharing the 
power and that's really what you want 
you don't want this to be a one-sided 
relationship you want this to be equal 
and that plays into all this as well 
that's super correct I love that I'm 
glad you brought that up so just press 
pause have a rule in all of your 
relationships you can use this even in 
your friendships right when somebody 
starts when an argument starts to get 
heated just say hey you guys you know 
what let's take a break from this 
conversation right now and in our house 
when we take a break from something we 
leave the room I physically will leave 
the conversation my family Jane and Max 
and Andy know if I'm leaving and I will 
say guys I'm gonna take a pause from 
this conversation I'm not quitting 
Pooler heads will prevail and I walk out 
of the room sometimes it takes 20 
minutes sometimes it takes a few hours 
but what it does is it really events 
escalation and those awful words and it 
has brought down the temper of our 
household dramatically in fact last 
night we were out to dinner for our 
anniversary we took everybody out my 
parents Jane and Max my brother my 
sister-in-law and my mom asked my kids 
what do you think has made your parents 
marriage successful for the last 20 
years and Max said you know what they're 
both really open-minded to each other's 
ideas and Jaden our 19 year old said 
they're really patient with each other 
right and that's so interesting to me I 
would have never guessed that that's 
what they would have said right and so 
but I think it's a testament to the fact 
that we work on this relationship you 
guys we weren't handed a magic wand and 
we weren't handed this magical life 
right we work at this we picked Partners 
where ultimately we are each other's 
best friends where the relationship 
overall is easy but there are hard 
things and that's where the work starts 
yeah and it's interesting what the both 
of them said because in some ways what 
they both said was really getting at the 
same issue from different angles right 
it's about you know being patient and 
open-minded is really about just having 
a 
an orientation that you want things to 
work and that you want things to succeed 
and what you're not trying to do is is 
one-up each other or drive power or 
conflict you're really trying to get 
along and it's an active choice and I 
think that's it was interesting to hear 
that they perceived that just from our 
daily interactions that's right that's 
right and 
um you know let's let's cycle to the 
next one and you say 
don't get trapped in the everyday 
and I think that's this is something 
that probably applies more to a longer 
term relationship than a new one a new 
one is really about the romance and the 
newness and and all of that but as you 
have a longer term relationship 
you realize that you know you're not 
just building a romantic partnership or 
friendship you're actually building a 
life together and there's a lot that 
comes along with that right it's like it 
is a business right and you are joint 
venture Partners in a sense of you're 
running a domestic partnership running 
this whole Enterprise that is called 
life and there are a lot of 
responsibilities that have to do with 
that it is keeping things clean it's 
keeping things organized it's Financial 
it's all of it's legal it's all medical 
the relationships there's so many 
aspects as you all know because you run 
your own house and you have kids if you 
do and or you have parents you're taken 
care of or whatever else and there's 
you're taking care of other everyone's 
taking care of some other living thing 
as well maybe it's a dog 
uh and you have that responsibility as 
well and what I'm getting at is it is 
easy to fall under the Trap of managing 
the business of life and 
lose sight of that core thing that 
brought you together which is that 
friendship ultimately and having those 
conversations with each other and you 
know people talk about date night and 
here's the here's the fallacy with date 
night I think what Andy's saying right 
okay everybody every couple should go on 
a date night once a week okay but what 
the hell are you doing on those date 
nights if you're sitting in front of the 
TV and Watching Ted lasso or the 
Diplomat or going to a movie every week 
that's not date night that's an activity 
what date night should be is an 
intentional night where you don't talk 
about the business of everyday life 
you're not talking about what happened 
at work that day that's transactional 
domestic partnership stuff it's what are 
you feeling right now how are you 
feeling about life how are you feeling 
about our life is there something 
Weighing on you what are you thinking 
about what are you dreaming about what 
are you afraid of and staying connected 
in those really connected e-ways that is 
how you stay out of the hum drum of 
everyday life and if you can't do a date 
night have those conversations even if 
it's 11 pm while you're in bed together 
you have to be intentional about having 
those conversations and connecting at 
those Soul levels to be able to 
withstand the conflicts and withstand 
those hard waves that will crash into 
your relationship at some point 
throughout life yeah one thing that we 
have done and continue to do uh is 
called a marriage walk where we'll just 
go go for a walk together and we can 
talk about anything but the reason I 
bring this up is that it it reinforces 
this point that we are doing this intent 
the reason we call it a marriage walk 
the mbw tell them what the mbw is 
um you forgot marriage binding walk 
where's binding walk we read about this 
like 20 years ago that the Swedish do 
this and after dinner they go from walks 
and they all have happier marriages and 
this was before the birth of Smart 
dating Academy so we started calling 
them let's go on an mbw but the point 
here is that it's intentional and the 
fact that the word marriage is in it and 
binding is in it is to reinforce that 
this is intentional about our 
relationship as romantic partners and as 
best friends not just as business 
partners right and that is really what 
we're trying to do as we go forward here 
and it is it needs to be active it needs 
to be intentional uh and it needs to be 
proactive and that is that's really the 
point we're making here yeah it also 
slides into the next point that I think 
is really really important and it's that 
the little things matter oh say it again 
for the people in the back the little 
things matter I think of what we're 
you're doing when you enter into a 
long-term relationship it is long-term 
by definition 
and really what you're doing is you are 
weaving your lives together and 
one way to view that is a business for 
transaction and then ever with staccato 
big romantic events that occur 
but really what you're actually doing is 
you're weaving your life together at a 
at a core level and every little thing 
matters every day and every day I think 
Bella's talked about this I make her 
coffee every single day in bed uh that's 
how I wake up how amazing is that and 
that's just one one little thing but I 
think it it reinforces that really we're 
weaving our lives together and doing it 
in a way that and I like doing it right 
and I think it it it points out that 
this is really about just building 
little habits and little points of 
interaction continuously and constantly 
versus defining the relationship as one 
big romantic vacation once a year right 
and you know John gottman who's one of 
my favorite relationship researchers he 
talks about the ratio of positive to 
negative interactions and this gets to 
Andy's why Point not he's not a student 
of gottman obviously he's in venture 
capital and private Equity that's more 
me but really the little things matter 
you need to have I think gottman says 
something like 20 to 1. you need 20 
positive interactions for every negative 
one the positives got to overwhelm the 
hell out of the negative ones say the 
nice thing notice what your partner does 
oh my gosh it's amazing that you change 
the light bulbs in the living room and 
now they all look like that really nice 
color that I like that's a hint to him 
because we have awesome yet mismatched 
light bulbs that make the living room 
look too yellow but really noticing the 
things that he does and he does a lot of 
things and I try and I'm not always good 
at it but I like to notice the things 
that he does and tell them because who 
doesn't want to be seen and affirmed for 
the things that they do and and I'll add 
to that on the one hand it's about 
recognizing The Good Deeds that each 
other bring to the table and telling 
them but but part of my point here is 
actually that the found the true 
foundation of the relationship is the 
sum total of all of these things and 
it's a subtly different point but it is 
a different point and it's that the the 
relationship and the romantic love and 
friendship needs to be it can really 
only be built off of 
all of these daily small interactions 
that are in fact positive and so it's 
it's not just about recognition but it's 
literally about building that 
relationship amen amen and I'm really 
lucky that I have a partner who I said 
hey I've got this idea I want you to 
come on the podcast and he was like okay 
let's do it so this is the thing we and 
I appreciate you being here and I 
appreciate this amazing list that you 
wrote and I appreciate that you came up 
with the idea to use this list as how 
we're going to help people to hopefully 
transform and develop and find their own 
happy relationship so 
um I appreciate everything that you do 
and if it wasn't for you I would have 
never started this business if I had a 
partner who said just go back to what 
you know what do you think you're going 
to do with this how are you going to 
make a living for us how are you going 
to contribute just go back to 
manufacturing your Finance person don't 
take this risk and instead what he said 
to me and we were talking about this the 
other day I said God you really said to 
me go do it and and you know what he 
said to me he's like because I knew that 
anything you did you would you would 
transform into magic how amazing is that 
yeah I wasn't worried at all she was 
that was a dark place for her I'm always 
worried I'm the anxious one as I'm sure 
you all could guess not for me I just 
knew it was going to happen and back to 
this podcast I'll use that to bring up 
the 26th 
tip that I came up with for yet another 
year and that's just have fun together 
we talked about a lot of deep things 
through the rest of this list but really 
just be happy having fun together and I 
think this podcast is another example of 
that right we get to just sit here next 
to each other ruminating talking 
and you know I want to tell you you're 
not one that you know you speak a lot 
for work but you're really natural at 
being on this podcast and I think that 
you should be a guest here more often 
because you're a lot of fun well I don't 
know that's a tall order we'll see I'm 
happy to do it it's fun right it's so 
fun it's so so fun so 
um you guys I hope this is giving you a 
little bit of the behind the scenes and 
oh let me see somebody had a couple of 
questions for us let me see if I can 
find them 
okay hold on 
okay 
oh well I think we answered the 
questions people sent us questions 
saying what do you do to ensure that you 
have enough quality time for each other 
we make the time for each other we do 
our marriage binding walks we go out and 
you know what's one thing you learned in 
your years together that you wish you 
knew earlier I think the answer to that 
was 
I wish we would have known how to 
de-escalate conflicts yeah I think 
that's right I think we would have had a 
much more peaceful first decade of 
marriage right so and I would add to 
that actually it's going to sound 
esoteric but I think I wish I had known 
that the relationship itself was going 
to be a journey in terms of learning and 
so that people you shouldn't expect to 
come into the relationship and know 
everything that's going to make it run 
perfectly and smoothly 
that it truly is a learning Endeavor and 
I think just with that shift in mindset 
I think that does a lot uh to reframe 
how you even come at the relationship 
absolutely well 
thank you so much for being on my 
podcast for being the lid to my pot for 
giving me 26 amazing years and hopefully 
another 26 or 56 God willing so 
um it's good to get married young it 
sure is thank you thank you for 
everything for all of our years I love 
you love you too and you know in terms 
of coming back on the podcast you could 
talk to my Booker uh and I'm sure I've 
got some dates in the next few months 
but we can go back and forth and figure 
that out I'll have my people call your 
people and guys I hope that you enjoyed 
this episode the little peek behind the 
curtains and I want you to know that we 
have prepared a podcast listener survey 
and you'll be able to get a link to that 
survey in the show notes and we want to 
give you content that you love we want 
to know what's important to you we want 
to know who you are we want to know 
where you are how old you are what 
what's important to you what kind of job 
you do because we want to understand how 
to bring you content that you love and 
content that helps you we want to make 
you better at Smart dating Academy in 
dating and all of your relationships we 
always said we want to bring love into 
your life and life into your love so 
please take the time to download and 
answer the podcast so that we can be the 
best podcast partners for you thank you 
very much if you need a consultation 
with us reach out join our email list at 
smartdatingacademy.com follow me at 
smartdatingacademy on Instagram and 
please if you love this write a review 
us little podcasters those reviews those 
five stars those comments that you 
actually sit down and write and it's 
really easy to do on Apple or Amazon or 
Spotify they mean the world they get us 
discovered my buy more people which 
means we can keep bringing you more 
great content so thank you again for 
being here and for responding and for 
reviewing and for doing all of the 
things so we can continue to be here for 
you on a weekly basis have a great week 
until I see you again psychotic optimism 
today tomorrow and always 
