[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
foreign 
ERS welcome back to this week's podcast 
you know every now and then you go to a 
party and you don't know that you're 
going to know many people and so this 
fine day in Chicago I was invited to a 
gathering and I drove about 78 minutes 
in traffic to get to this beautiful 
woman's house and I walked in alone it 
was like what I have you guys do with 
single people walk into an event alone 
and just say yes to the invitation and I 
met this very Charming woman named Elise 
and we got to talking and she's also a 
coach and she said to me Bella you need 
to know my brother he is a celebrity 
stylist he's in New York and his name is 
Andrew so I am so happy and humbled that 
Andrew gelwix has decided to join us 
today as a celebrity stylist on this 
podcast to tell us all of the things 
Andrew welcome to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast 
thank you Bella I'm so excited to be 
here we're super excited to have you 
well you know just start out and tell us 
about 
how do you become a celebrity stylist 
like tell us you tell us your story 
you know it's so funny because and I I 
just talk about this with people who are 
interested in being and being a stylist 
and wanting to enter fashion and it's 
there's 
the good there's a good and bad answer 
to this and that is that there's no one 
way to become a stylist 
um you know I almost like wish there was 
a way like to become a doctor you know 
you go to undergrad you go to med school 
you know all the steps whereas with this 
you know people are have past careers 
and they enter into styling so for me I 
used to work in editorials I worked in 
magazines I was at GQ and then 
um I went to Teen Vogue where I was 
doing celebrity booking 
um so I kind of combined 
the entertainment aspect and the fashion 
aspect and uh kind of bridge that 
together into working with uh 
celebrities on their fashion 
okay so let's dig into that that's so 
that's amazing but I'm sure there were 
like certain moments like what what was 
your moment what was that inflection 
point where you're like I'm gonna do 
this 
I mean it's one of those things where I 
grew up in Ohio I would always steal my 
mom's Vanity Fair magazines because I 
would love to look at all the red carpet 
photos and all the Glamorous actresses 
and their beautiful dresses and that was 
always something that 
you know was a kind of a fantasy for me 
but also being from being Ohio it almost 
it really felt like a fantasy 
um you know it wasn't a thought of mine 
that oh that's actually a career path 
that could you could have 
um but really I got to college I went to 
school at a small private school in 
Indianapolis and 
they kept talking about internships and 
I was like you know why I think this is 
a potential career path I have no idea 
what this entails but I'm just going to 
email my resumes to all these fashion 
places and see what happens and when I 
got responses it was that it was kind of 
this light bulb went off where I was 
like 
wow this actually is a possibility there 
is a career path here and through that I 
just kind of followed it to which led me 
to styling 
okay got it so you were doing GQ you 
were doing Teen Vogue like was there a 
person like at that moment like when did 
you decide to Spring out on your own 
like I think with so many entrepreneurs 
including myself there's sometimes 
there's one moment or there's a couple 
of moments and sometimes you only know 
what that moment is in retrospect you 
don't ever it's like oh I intentionally 
created this moment it's like you have 
your oh and you take a chance and 
you take a leap and that happens did you 
have one of those things it's like you 
have this background you're doing 
celebrity bookings your GQ your Teen 
Vogue like how did it come to be did you 
have your first celebrity like what 
happened 
uh you know I was doing this celebrity 
booking and then I was doing kind of 
just as a fun little hobby I was doing 
styling on the weekends I was I would 
email modeling agencies and I would say 
hey I'm Andrew I I would call myself a 
stylist even though I wasn't 
um I mean I'm a stylist if any of your 
models need help styling photo shoots 
for their portfolios I would love to 
work with them and I started doing that 
a few times a weekend 
um and it throughout the week that's 
what I was looking forward to and it 
really kind of hit me that this is what 
I should be doing 
um you know there was so there wasn't 
necessarily one 
moment or one instance that really 
pivoted everything but kind of that 
accumulation of realizing this is what's 
exciting me oh totally and that's 
exactly what I was gunning for okay so 
now you start to find the juice in your 
life the passion you're like this is my 
heartbeat this is what I want to do oh I 
love that okay so you're doing models 
you're helping to style photo shoots and 
now you know I I tell us about your 
Evolution how did you get to and just to 
lay it out there who are some of tell us 
the long list of amazing celebrities 
that you work with and then we'll back 
up as to how you got there 
so I've had a really amazing 
um 
they've had a lot of opportunities 
towards amazing women 
um a lot of the clients that work risks 
are they when they really range in age 
but uh Catherine O'Hara from shit's 
creek Susan Sarandon that middleware 
um uzo aduba from Orange is the New 
Black so it's it's really you know kind 
of 
little little Andrew from Ohio is always 
like what is happening right now oh my 
gosh that just gave me goosebumps and 
so 
so now okay so listener you see this you 
know Andrew is is the shizzle so now 
let's go back and how do we get to the 
Chisel so now you're styling photo 
shoots as you know kind of a side hustle 
to your hustle and so what was your 
first kind of break 
I started working with this model 
um she was oh gosh she was a young 
teenager then 
um and she was having some success and 
she needed a little help with 
um events that she was going to and that 
really was a huge game changer for me 
because it pivoted from doing photo 
shoots to doing real moments like red 
carpets and things like that and so 
through that I was able to develop kind 
of a portfolio 
um and you know obviously she was this 
young beautiful model and from having 
those opportunities I was able to 
translate that to working with actresses 
and you know uh other more established 
women 
that's amazing and 
wow and when you started working with 
this model like or when you start 
working with people in general do you 
ask them like what is your personality 
what do you want to exude like tell me 
about your process I'm so fascinated by 
the beauty that you create 
all sweet I mean I think it's similar to 
probably what you asked as well when you 
start when you meet with a client I 
think in order for me to do my job I 
need to tap into 
them as a person uh because I can only 
see what I see you know from their 
Instagram or from past red carpets or 
things like that but it's really also 
about what are they hoping to do what 
are their goals what are they wanting to 
portray do they haven't in the past 
um and really kind of figuring that out 
so I can then translate that into what 
designers would be best for them to be 
collaborating with and things like that 
so it's there's very much so uh 
hopefully a conversation when I begin 
working with somebody got it and do you 
find yourself Andrew doing kind of an 
evolution for people like I'm like let's 
say it's me I'm Bella and this is 
typically what I do but I would like to 
be this 
or is it more and or is it more here's 
who I am and I just want to be 
consistent with that or is it both 
because it sounds really exciting I 
think there's I think it's both I think 
it just depends on the person I think 
it's really exciting when you get to 
have that opportunity to kind of do a 
little bit of a pivot 
um and take someone maybe who has you 
know who's a really established name and 
people think they know what to expect 
from her and then she shows up and it's 
something totally different for her and 
then you kind of are on this journey of 
showing her in a new light I mean I 
think that's like a stylist's dream to 
be able to do something like that right 
just to show different facets of this 
person or that they can block all these 
different kinds of looks yeah just like 
oh I wasn't expecting that you know 
that's that's the fun part about fashion 
you know if you watch the Oscars and 
you're like oh wow I wasn't expecting 
that that's exciting not like you don't 
want to hear like oh yep expected that 
right right there she is in her red 
dress again exactly exactly 
I often say that my wardrobe now 
especially for appearances it looks like 
organized Skittles like it here's all 
the red here's the yellow here's the 
orange and the green and the blue so 
right so very jewel tones 
I mean don't get me wrong it's good to 
know what looks good on you it's nice to 
have your your Staples but I think it's 
also nice to kind of give people a 
little surprise now in them oh yeah I 
absolutely love that and um 
who can you like when you're working 
with you know let's say Bette Midler 
compared to you know like a Sarah 
Jessica Parker or Catherine O'Hara like 
what have been some of your favorite 
moments 
I think you know one one of my favorite 
people to collaborate with is Catherine 
O'Hara 
um who doesn't love her I mean I mean 
she not only is the the loveliest 
kindest person but 
um you know she's someone who I think 
really has a lot of fun with fashion 
um and I think that as a stylist that 
just makes my job even more enjoyable to 
see someone who really doesn't take it 
too seriously and just like wants to 
have fun and you know play with it 
um I think some of the looks we've done 
over the past few years have been some 
of my favorite 
that's awesome and did you style her on 
the show as well as off now okay I I 
wish I had but 
um the people who had the costume 
designers on shit's creek they deserve 
all the credit in the world they I mean 
they nailed that so well obsessed 
obsessed obsessed 
um that's awesome so she's one of your 
favorites and so if you were you know 
looking at if you were talking to you 
know different single women you know 
across the board you know could be and I 
know it's a hard question because 
there's different ages and we look 
different and we're all you know we're 
all our own special snowflakes but I 
think something especially being single 
is we all always want to make sure that 
we're feeling our best and looking our 
best and we give people you know ideas 
of what to wear for their photo shoot 
like what's going to look best in static 
photography and that can translate into 
what they're going to wear for a date is 
there any you know what's one of your 
favorite tips that you could give to 
virtually anybody let's say if you were 
writing back for voger for GQ or Teen 
Vogue again like you know some styling 
tips that can up just about anybody's 
game 
the one thing that I tell all clients 
and tell everybody and I hope this isn't 
a cop-out answer but I believe in it 
wholeheartedly that the one if you could 
only do one thing it is invest in a 
tailor 
oh good one love that exploring is 
everything there is nothing worse than 
saying that's ill-fitting and the right 
tailor I mean that can transform 
anything to fit you perfectly to make 
you feel more confident I mean I I just 
think the the power of some of tailoring 
something to your body is the utmost 
importance I mean I the tailors I work 
with I I trust them completely and I 
just think it can totally make or break 
uh any look and I think that 
trickles down to what we wear to dinners 
or lunches or on dates it doesn't need 
to be a red carpet to you know have 
something like that I mean 
these are things these are the kind of 
like the big moments in our lives that 
we want to look good in so we're going 
on a date we want to make sure that that 
little black dress is you know hugging 
you perfectly or those jeans are 
tailored really nice and you know 
whatever it is 
um I just think a good tailor is my 
biggest biggest fashion tip 
um I love that and here's one thing I 
can add to that is if you're thinking 
get something tailored but then also I 
think for women especially and I've made 
this mistake doing shows like we think 
we're going to be standing up the whole 
night right so we get things tailored 
but now realize think about how else 
you're going to be in that outfit are 
you going to be seated are you going to 
be seated on a high stool so kind of 
know your use case also when you're 
getting something tailored and when 
you're gonna wear that particular piece 
to a particular event yes and we could 
what I do is we do the sit test so I 
think they're doing a talk show or 
something well it's going to be scene 
sitting down primarily so let's let's 
take a seat let's look at it from the 
waist stop let's see how it's folding in 
the stump like you know you have no it's 
like know your audience kind of uh know 
your audience for that for that dress or 
whatever you're wearing 
that's awesome and I'm just I'm looking 
at your background and there's all these 
shoes tell us about what you have going 
on like what's a typical day in your 
life you manage multiple high-profile 
personalities for multiple events that 
I'm guessing could be a luncheon all the 
way to the red carpet like what is a 
typical day in your life look like 
you know it's like one of my favorite 
things about this work is that every day 
is so different 
um you know some days range from just 
like everybody else being at their desk 
emails phone calls doing things like 
that to bopping around the city to 
different clients to do fittings to get 
them ready for their events uh being on 
photo shoots 
um so kind of that there's no typical 
day which I really like 
um and it kind of just keeps you on your 
toes yeah I totally get that and do you 
for individual clients do you have 
specific places that you shop or do you 
kind of vision board out like hey I 
think I'm gonna do this for your outfit 
like how do you typically do it or it 
sounds like the world's kind of your 
oyster I am all about a mood board I 
love a good word I think you know for me 
visuals are everything especially when 
you're talking about you know fashion 
because I've had if people are you know 
I've had people say I want something 
really sleek and Chic and to me that is 
a very specific I I know I in my mind 
that's one image I have the exactly idea 
of what that is but they could be 
thinking of something totally different 
so I say 
all right totally get it let me let me 
mood board this out for you to make sure 
we're on the same page 
um because 
you know I don't want to show up with my 
version of sleek and Chic and they're 
like what is this this is not what I had 
in mind 
um so I love a good mood board and then 
from there Translating that into which 
designers which stores which Outlets 
have pieces like this 
how incredibly fun that's true like when 
you say sleek and Chic I would 
automatically My head goes to Black 
right something right you would think 
you would think sleek and Chic is like 
New York black right or Chicago black I 
had an instance where someone said I 
want 
uh what was the word they used like uh 
princess 
and uh which to me is 
you know like kind of like that 
printable bomb princess to them it was 
something totally different so I was 
like all right we're gonna mood board 
this out to make sure we're on the same 
page here right I mean princess to me 
could mean Tiara and sparkles and 
rhinestones and tutus and I'm all about 
all of that by the way uh for the record 
right love or I guess it could be 
Princess Diana 
you know what I I I'm here for both I 
just want to make sure we're on the same 
page so getting that cohesive vision is 
what I'm all about so if I said to you I 
want to be a princess yeah what would 
you do for me 
[Laughter] 
I mean to me I go to tools so I think so 
then I think about okay so what 
designers have really big tools are we 
going to go like Jean Bautista Bali are 
we gonna go Tony Ward is it Oscar de 
laurenta 
um you know it's there's so many 
different Avenues you can kind of go 
down and play with 
wow wow and what a fun job and are you 
always looking for new designers oh 
animals new designers send them my way 
please I am always hunting for new 
designers I I think there's nothing more 
exciting than to Showcase new designers 
on the red carpet and give emerging 
artists you know kind of Spotlight 
um I think it's you know it's very 
rewarding and I think it's really 
exciting to kind of show different 
voices and to give other people that uh 
red carpet that opportunity no that's 
amazing that's so that's so 
benevolent I can't speak today and 
speaking of you know kind of you and 
bringing your voice out there and and 
helping people to become their best 
selves you wrote a book called the queer 
Advantage tell us about this I love this 
so I uh the clear Advantage I wrote it 
it came out in October 2020 and it 
actually just came out on paperback uh 
last week I think congratulations thank 
you 
um but really it's about I interviewed 
51 of some of the most successful 
inspiring leaders on how being queer 
positively impacted their career 
um I think for me myself and so many 
other people uh the conversation is so 
primarily focused on the negatives and 
the hardships and the struggles of being 
clear and you know as as important as 
those conversations are it's not the 
full story you know there's so many 
amazing things about being queer uh and 
that's kind of what I wanted to Showcase 
in this and probably you know 
specifically how it that translated into 
our professional lives so well oh and 
did what did you find were there were 
there commonalities across and I think 
you interviewed people like athletes 
CEOs just all over the map so I'm so 
curious everyone from Billie Jean King 
to Barney Frank to Margaret Cho 
um 
Michael Kors Boy George 
um but you know it was what's so 
interesting is that there were 
absolutely worth some similarities and 
overlap between uh people but really 
each person had a different 
interpretation of what the queer 
Advantage is 
and I think that was one of the most 
exciting things is because everyone 
everyone's interpretation was really 
unique to that and their own lived 
experience 
were there a few that stuck out for you 
and what would yours be 
I mean one that really stuck out to me 
um he's one of my favorite musicians 
he's this really young amazing uh artist 
named Troye Sivan his his songs on all 
the radio stations he's amazing uh but 
he was really talking about 
um the kind of the connective tissue 
between creativity and being queer and 
how growing up because he felt isolated 
he really relied on his creativity and 
that was kind of uh his outlet and that 
really resonated with me 
um and so I think that's one that really 
stuck out to me for sure 
got it got it got it and what and I know 
you referenced being young and looking 
at your mom's Vanity Fair magazine so 
what is did that play into your answer 
as well 
I mean for sure it's you know I think 
um you know even as we were talking 
about earlier when we're having 
conversations with clients like one of 
my career advantages is being able to 
connect with people I think on a more 
intimate level and I think a lot has to 
do with being queer and kind of having 
to 
um dig deep to find that connection with 
people 
um but you know I think a lot of my 
creativity was definitely stemming from 
when I was younger and uh looking 
through all the fashion magazines and 
kind of building up that fantasy of what 
that life could look like 
interesting and do you remember I'm I'm 
curious when you have an athlete like 
Billie Jean King did was it similar was 
there that you know sense of kind of 
being more isolated feeling different 
which leads to creativity like did you 
find any differences between Career 
paths 
um 
I don't know if there was a difference 
in I think the differences in career 
paths it was interesting uh more so in 
terms of the age gaps 
um because I think the difference in 
Generations dependent on what their 
careers were 
um really how you could highlight the 
differences there 
okay between ages yes between ages yes 
oh wow and and what inspired you to 
write the book 
I mean it it was honestly almost out of 
like selfish reasons that I wanted to 
have these conversations I was curious 
to know the answers 
um and you know I I really just felt 
like there was nothing out there that 
talked about the positives and I think 
that that's so important 
um not not just for queer people but for 
parents of queer people and you know I 
think 
um to show what their child's lives can 
be 
um so I wanted to create that I love 
that so much and so did it wasn't Time 
Magazine didn't Time Magazine call your 
book one of the 50 most potentially 
influential books of the year 
yeah one of the most anticipated books 
of the Fall so that was 
um 
that was that was a nice little moment I 
was very happily surprised about that 
oh my gosh and tell us what do your 
parents do how did they produce someone 
so amazing 
my parents uh are lawyers and they are 
the best most unbelievably supportive 
parents 
um they could not be more happy and 
excited about the queer advantage and 
you know you mentioned my sister Elise 
earlier they've you know 
all of them are so supportive and they 
support Elise so 
um we're I'm very lucky you're a family 
of creatively entrepreneurial amazing 
people amazing people and do you have 
any you know if we can manifest it out 
in the universe they call me the Fairy 
Godmother of dating so I always have a 
wand here so if we could manifest like 
who who would be some dream people that 
you would love to style 
oh my goodness 
um I would love to you know I I love 
working with women who are just 
Unapologetic who are immensely talented 
at whatever it is they're doing 
um so I think of you know in terms of 
like actresses I think of uh women like 
Meryl Streep or younger I think Elle 
Fanning is one of the best actresses of 
Our Generation 
Um so you know people like that who 
really have a strong a strong voice 
um and our mentally talented absolutely 
okay well we're gonna put it out into 
the universe Maryland 
yes if you're listening to the Smart 
dating Academy podcast which you should 
be listen to my friend Andrew and uh and 
he'll he'll definitely set you up so do 
you have any parting fashion advice for 
us as we re-enter or enter the dating 
world this winter like how do we just up 
our game we're all going to have new 
tailors but is there anything else you'd 
like to is there anything else you'd 
like to impart to us 
um you know what I think 
I think what I try to tell people is 
just have fun with it 
um just try to have fun with fashion 
um it's yes it's obviously a 
very functional tool but it should be 
fun and don't take it too seriously and 
I think when it comes to dating it's you 
know when I was dating I loved seeing 
what people wore on their first date or 
a second dates you know I think it's it 
shows so much of who you are 
um and to show that show your 
personality 
um whether it's you know whether he 
shows up in a suit and tie you know 
that's very indicative of his 
personality or if it's you know a really 
bright colored pull-up whatever it is 
you know I think 
um it's it's nice to see that so I think 
um 
have fun with that have fun with it and 
okay so you reference dating tell us 
about how you met your partner 
we met on Bumble oh online dating 
everyone did you hear that even 
celebrity stylists use online dating I 
tell you this all the time and I know 
they're all going on I know online 
dating I have to do it and so what made 
your partner's profile stand out to you 
and how did he feel showing up to a date 
with the celebrity stylist like what was 
his moment 
I don't I think he could have cared less 
he you know he jokes that he has the 
better fashion sense of us 
um but you know I think he I think he he 
was he came from he came straight from 
the office so he was wearing a suit and 
tie 
um but 
um you know I I don't really remember 
the profile honestly 
um I just I I do remember being very 
impressed with his outfit though I will 
say that because it was I don't think I 
had been on many dates where someone 
came up in a suit showed up in a suit 
and tie 
um and we had we're going to say a 
casual Mexican restaurant but he showed 
up in a suit and tie and I remember 
being very impressed by that 
okay ladies and gents you know what I 
always say about dating step up your 
game you look like you're the man with 
the plan look like you respect yourself 
and look at what happened look it he 
showed up 
in a suit right to a casual Mexican 
restaurant and you weren't like oh he 
looks like he's trying too hard you were 
like oh game on super impressed you know 
what here's my thing maybe he was even 
coming from the office and he just said 
that so you could wear a suit and look 
good 
it doesn't really matter it doesn't 
matter 
I wouldn't be able to tell a difference 
so maybe just say yeah oh sorry I'm this 
whole thing I'm just claiming from the 
office you know what I mean like show up 
looking good 
oh my gosh next time I'm gonna go out on 
a date maybe even with my husband I'll 
just be like in sequence looking like a 
princess I'll be like oh this whole 
thing I just I came from the red carpet 
I yes right exactly how he's not gonna 
know it's fine right and as long as you 
look good he doesn't care nope he's not 
no one cares no one cares just have fun 
be yourself have fun with fashion and 
don't be afraid to try different things 
is what I'm hearing from you right 
explore different things personality 
surprise people so and age does not 
matter people some people say oh I've 
been I you know I am this age this is 
what looks good on me I'm gonna keep 
doing this 
it's 
no what looks good but also try 
something new you know there's always 
room to play 
um and I think that is that's one of 
hopefully one of the biggest takeaways 
oh I love that and you know you don't 
have to necessarily try something new if 
you've been nominated for an Oscar you 
might want to you know but you know as 
most of us maybe aren't in that boat at 
this point try something new and maybe 
try it in a low stake situation right 
maybe take a photo and add it to your 
Bumble profile and see how people 
respond to it but have fun be creative 
but most importantly it's really 
important that you feel like you look 
great in what you're wearing yes feel 
good about it feel good about it you are 
such a love I wish I could just pull you 
through the screen and give you a big 
hug this has been so fun and I feel like 
I have a little more Sparkle and I'm 
going to take half of my wardrobe to the 
tailor right now and I hope for all of 
you listening you're feeling the same 
way at this point as I have my as I have 
the sleeves folded under on my leather 
jacket I've been caught here so time to 
go to the tailor so in fashion loved 
Andrew seriously thank you so much I'm 
going to put a link to your book in the 
show notes and congratulations on all of 
your success being a kid from Ohio and 
doing what you're doing now I couldn't 
be more proud to know you and thank you 
for sharing your story with us oh thank 
you for having me 
