[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
I know that this is the episode that 
you've all been waiting for and I've 
been waiting for two Rachel Zar sex and 
relationship therapist at spark therapy 
at northwestern's Center for sexual 
medicine and menopause Rachel welcome we 
are going to Dive Right In to you and 
dive right into this topic thank you for 
being here with us yay thank you for 
having me I'm so excited and I love to 
talk about sex and I love to talk about 
dating so let's dive in can I serenade 
you let's talk about sex baby let's talk 
about you and me okay that's the only 
time you're ever going to hear me sing 
on my podcast so 
um tell us a little bit about what you 
do who who you serve give us a little 
context and then we'll go through some 
of the things that you want to talk 
about with our audience to give you guys 
everything and then some you've thought 
about sex thought you couldn't say you 
wanted to say Rachel's got all the dish 
and we've got questions from you 
listeners as well to go through so tell 
us what you do okay well it's a good 
question because a lot of people don't 
know what sex therapists do and the most 
important thing to know is that Sex 
Therapy is just talk therapy 
um despite what you might see on TV 
nobody's ever getting naked or touching 
each other I'm not touching anybody oh 
man 
it's mental health it's just talking 
through sexual issues 
um and what I do basically is people 
come to me I work with both individuals 
and couples and they come to me with any 
sexual concerns Under the Sun a lot of 
times for couples that's a difference of 
discrepancy in the way that they like to 
have sex or and how often they like to 
have sex at the center for sexual 
medicine I'm working with female-bodied 
people who have some kind of sexual 
functioning issue so that's issues with 
libido arousal orgasm 
pain with sex I see a lot of women with 
painful sex which is not normal sex 
should not be painful unless you want it 
to be there's always that little caveat 
oh okay did you guys hear that Fifty 
Shades of me exactly we could go there 
we could go there 
but in my private practice and the group 
practice that I'm a part of I'm working 
with people of all genders all 
relationships structures any kind of 
sexual issues but I do have that kind of 
specialty Niche focus in working with 
female bodied people who have concerns 
about the their sexual functioning or 
really just want to have a deeper 
understanding of their sexual selves how 
they show up sexually 
wow that's amazing I love what you do 
and like I told you as we were having a 
quick conversation before this podcast 
this is God's work I've had so many 
people that get into great relationships 
but then sometimes something's missing 
with the sex sometimes it's Ed sometimes 
it's I want him to do this but he 
doesn't want to do this sometimes it's 
she wants me to be more experienced but 
I'm not so we refer out very fluidly to 
sex therapists because I know 
um once I've surpassed my pay grade and 
that's when I bring in the experts like 
Rachel so 
um 
I'm so glad that you set the stage for 
what you do and you know let's talk 
about I certainly have my thoughts at 
Smart dating Academy about sex and what 
we call sex exclusivity and waiting to 
have sex until you're in an exclusive 
relationship because we often see people 
that come in with lots of red flags and 
like to jump into things Fast and 
Furious and so tell us about what do you 
tell people about when it's okay or not 
okay to have sex for the first time sure 
sure 
um the answer to a lot of these 
questions for me is going to be well 
Bella it depends 
and sometimes it's like therapist Mantra 
it depends 
um but I think when we're talking about 
sex with a new partner it's all about 
intentionality and I think what happens 
is too often people get stuck in these 
kind of rules the one that I hear most 
often is the third date rule right 
right and it drives me crazy because 
first of all it sets it sets these 
expectations it puts a ton of pressure 
on this kind of like energy and 
chemistry to be there by the third date 
which for a lot of people that isn't 
true and why the third date this is what 
you should do your PhD on why the F who 
was the dude that created the three-day 
rule just decided but this is where I 
mean this is a this is human nature We 
Like rules we like structure we like to 
know what the game is that we're playing 
and the problem is 
um that when we're dating it's really 
more about feelings than it is about 
rules and logic and we just have to 
acknowledge that sex comes with a lot of 
feelings for some people and this is 
where you know I know that you advocate 
for waiting a little longer I think that 
that gives you so much time for that 
intentionality that's really important 
about sex I also really I see a lot of 
women who are out there dating 
um men too I do see this more and women 
who are really beating themselves up for 
having sex too early in a relationship 
um I always invite people to just kind 
of do a self-check around deciding to 
have sex how are you feeling before how 
you feel enduring how are you feeling 
after what do you think sex means I 
think a lot of times people think like 
you know oh if we have sex that means 
that we're exclusive or exclusive that 
means that they want something more or 
it means that they don't respect me that 
they that you know some people will say 
yeah I don't really see this going 
anywhere so might as well have some fun 
sex out of it and unless we're 
communicating unless we're setting up 
those intentions we really don't know so 
there's no right time to be having sex 
from my perspective when you're dating 
sometimes 
you're dating just for fun you want to 
be able to have a sexual relationship or 
the chemistry is there the mood is right 
and you just decide to go for it with 
nothing to worry right it happens and 
you know I've seen sex on a first date 
that leads to a really long meaningful 
relationship I've seen people wait until 
you know six months or until marriage 
right we see that a lot and have a 
really beautiful relationship so there's 
no rule the third date rule is made up 
it's arbitrary it's all about 
intentionality 
and really self-awareness how are you 
going into the sexual experience what 
are you expecting out of it 
um 
and that's where I stand it depends I 
love that and what you're saying is it 
should feel right for you whatever your 
intention is so if we take the 
reciprocal of that if you are thinking 
well God it's the third date and I'm not 
ready but I think this is going 
somewhere and I should really you know 
have sex because I don't want to lose 
this person that's not a good time to do 
that potentially because you're doing it 
from a place of fear exactly the thing 
that I like to say is when we're talking 
about consent we're often talking about 
consent between two people there also 
needs to be a process of self-consent 
right do I really want to do this and 
especially early in the relationship 
I say if it's not a yes yes yes then 
it's a no right if you're really 
thinking about you know it's not just no 
means no it's it's either yes yes yes oh 
my goodness I'm so excited I can't wait 
like I can't wait for it to know 
no no no and and self-consent is such a 
big deal I love that so much you have to 
check in with yourself and if you're 
coming from that place of fear or you 
just don't know and is this too soon is 
it not if it's not a yes yes yes it's uh 
how about we give it another date 
right right give yourself permission to 
take your time to move intentionally 
um you also see that a lot of times when 
people feel that pressure they tend to 
do things like drink too much or get 
into a state where they're really not 
able to give that self-consent or 
consent to another 
um so just be aware of that if you're 
feeling a lot of anxiety if it doesn't 
feel right to you then it's not and any 
partner and this is actually a really 
good opportunity to check this out any 
partner that's not respectful of your 
sexual boundaries 
is not going to be a good partner for 
you long term that's really kind of 
foundational to having a good sexual 
relationship is respect for each other's 
boundaries and able to communicate 
that is such a great point one of the 
things that we get and now understand 
too when people come to us with the 
intentionality is I want to find the lid 
to my pot I want to find a committed 
exclusive relationship that's going to 
go the distance and to your point we 
advocate for three months right like 15 
to 20 dates and why not for any 
arbitrary reason not for game playing 
right it's it's really to develop the 
like to develop the emotional intimacy 
to make sure I'm kicking the tires I'm 
taking the car for a test drive in the 
snow and in the rain and all of the 
conditions right before I oxytocin bond 
to this person so that's that's usually 
so if you're from Smart dating Academy 
and you're one of our clients and you're 
listening to this right I'm not going to 
start advocating for a three-day rule 
but you know the rationale as to why we 
say slow things down because a lot of 
times our clients will come to us having 
chronically been attracted to people 
that aren't good Lids to their pot 
aren't good partners for them maybe 
they're emotionally avoidant maybe 
they're narcissistic they're 
non-committal whatever it is and it 
takes a while to start to suss that 
stuff out and I say get to know people 
under a variety of contexts because 
sometimes it's like in the beginning 
you're dating somebody's representative 
you're not dating the real person and in 
three dates again I'm not going to say 
judgment but these are the conversations 
I have with my clients like okay if 
you're going to spend two hours per day 
with someone and that's a collective of 
six hours over three days basic 
multiplication it's not even a freaking 
legit work day which is eight hours so 
let's kind of put a little bit of rash 
Chanel to this so unless you have 
self-consented unless it's a yes yes yes 
ladies and gentlemen it's a no and the 
right person and this is the biggest 
point that I just love about what you 
said is people need to respect your 
boundaries and what I can tell you is 
when people you know I know you know our 
philosophies and everybody's like oh my 
God 15 20 dates but I will tell you a 
person that wants to be with you will 
respect those boundaries they will move 
mountains to be with you so if you say I 
want to be in a committed exclusive 
relationship where I can call you my 
boyfriend if this dude is legit and he 
wants to be with you guess what he'll be 
like game on sister that's fine so just 
to set the stage around all of this it's 
you it's the other person and the right 
person will like Rachel saying respect 
exactly what you want and if they won't 
then you have to ask yourself would this 
be a good part for me long term sure 
sure and I think what's so just to add 
the other side of that coin if we're 
talking here about women who are dating 
men 
men are hearing those same men are 
feeling that same pressure that women 
are around oh I've gotta like 
real men want to have sex right away and 
all of this stuff and I swear I hear it 
more from men than I do for women this 
idea of like I do think I need to wait 
or I'm feeling really anxious about sex 
but what's she gonna think of me if I 
don't want to have sex right away right 
every we're all caught up in these same 
narratives and if you're not feeling 
comfortable with it there are other 
people out there that are not feeling 
comfortable with it too and it's why 
it's so important to have it's what I 
love about what you do Bella but it's 
all about kind of like let's look at our 
patterns here what is working for you 
what is not working for you and the 
permission to rewrite the script 
and just being authentic to ourselves 
and it's regardless of what gender you 
are we're stuck in the sexual script 
especially when we're talking about 
heterosexual relationships we have such 
such a script for that oh yeah and it 
scripts to your point we coach men as 
well as women and sometimes men and we 
prescribe the same kind of Doctrine to 
men and women it's not only hey women no 
it's men too like we want you to have a 
dating funnel and date a lot of people 
and so that you are objective through 
the process when you're dating 
consciously right and and men will often 
say my God these women are like let's 
just have sex in my car it's like the 
second date or the third date and they 
feel the pressure of that like hey coach 
you're telling me not to do this but 
these women like they're like oh my God 
High School me is kind of like oh my God 
this is amazing but like adult fail me 
is like wait a second I don't want to 
like it's it's he you know I had a 
client named Dan who's like it's easy 
for me to do that like I could sleep 
with you but it's good I I I don't want 
to do it number one and number two it's 
gonna probably mean something different 
to you than it will to me at the end of 
the day so the answer is no and it's so 
it's so interesting you're right that we 
all there's such a script that we carry 
around on this both men and women and 
one of the things that you say is you 
know you hear people speaking of sex 
whether it's the third date or the 30th 
date whatever it is people we've had sex 
once so now we have to have sex every 
time and a lot what do you tell people 
about that like is there should we 
pressure ourselves like oh my God I I 
had sex does that mean tomorrow I've had 
sex twice and then on Friday five times 
and what do I have to do sure sure it's 
something that I hear all the time this 
idea of like once you like once you 
break the seal you are then having sex 
on every single date and if that's what 
you want to do cool again if that yes 
yes yes is there and I think that's 
something that kind of tends to fade 
away as we progress into relationships 
and that's really worth holding on to is 
the sexual tension that's there when you 
don't know that kind of yeah can we let 
things build up can we make out for 
three hours and not go straight to 
intercourse right that you don't hear I 
have so many people come into my office 
and I say well when was the last time 
you just made out and kind of kept your 
pants on and just rubbed up against each 
other and they're like uh probably our 
second date right it's not something 
that people are doing but that's where 
all the juice is like that's the sexual 
tension that's the excitement that's the 
energy that's what gets us to the place 
of yes yes yes so so often what people 
do is once they've had sex 
um in a lot of if we're in this script A 
lot of times that means intercourse 
they kind of skip to the finish line and 
they start doing that more and more 
frequently and that's it's just kind of 
fast forwarding through all the good 
stuff through all this stuff that really 
gives you the feels that has you feel 
connected to all the persons to the 
other person and it becomes about 
performance and getting to a Finish Line 
as opposed to really being about 
pleasure and connection and all of the 
wonderful things that come with being 
sexual not necessarily with having sex 
um I love that and that again advocates 
for maybe slowing things down and 
checking in with yourself and checking 
in with the other person and asking 
yourself what do I want from this and 
and I love the fact that you say that 
the idea that having sex with someone 
for the first time has to be amazing and 
great is a total myth let's talk about 
this because I know for smart daters oh 
my God they're like what do you mean why 
do I have to wait for 15 days what if we 
don't have chemistry what if the sex 
isn't good 
and so let's go there like how do we 
like what if it's not great or maybe it 
shouldn't be great is this about 
resetting expectations 
I think it really is I think it really 
really is because and let's put blame 
where blame is due we see it in the 
movies we see it I mean it is like first 
date you just fall into bed together and 
everyone knows exactly what to do with 
their hands and everyone's just having 
orgasm after orgasm and at the same time 
and it's just if it's right we're gonna 
have this amazing sexual chemistry and 
it's just not realistic [ __ ] right 
exactly it's [ __ ] it's not how 
people work it's not how relationships 
work 
um and I sometimes encourage people 
especially early on in a relationship 
especially if it feels like oh we just 
can't get over that hump just have bad 
sex have clunky figure it out laugh 
about it right don't make it such a big 
deal don't assign so much meaning to 
that first sexual experience because the 
truth is when we think about what 
actually makes sex good it's all about 
learning someone else's body right 
learning the ins and outs of what feels 
good for them and anyone who says 
something like well I'm really good at I 
know exactly how to make women orgasm or 
I know exactly how to make men orgasm 
it's like all you know is what made your 
last partner orgasm you don't know 
anything about this partner you don't 
know what feels good to them especially 
all that the juicy touchy feely not just 
straight to the orgasm stuff 
um and it's figuring out how does my 
body work with this person how do we 
communicate about this it's building up 
all of that as to your point Bella 
building up all of that emotional 
connection all of that 
deeper stare into each other's eyes 
stuff that takes time and what we have 
to remember is that the first time 
having sex with someone regardless of 
how how long you've been dating or how 
well you know them is really vulnerable 
You're exposing yourself literally and 
figuratively to this person for the 
first time you're letting them in 
sometimes quite literally too literally 
figuratively exactly 
sometimes you're really letting someone 
into your body and that's really really 
vulnerable 
we just have to kind of lighten the 
expectation here allow ourselves to do 
that kind of like well my my right hand 
is falling asleep so like let's pause 
let's roll over let's refigure it out do 
you actually like this 
um is that feeling good for you was that 
an orgasm right 
figure it out allow yourself the freedom 
to develop a sexual connection as you 
develop your relationship 
I mean and that's so great I love that 
have clunky sex have bad sex and be with 
someone who you can communicate about 
that with and laugh about it with I mean 
what it you know I read so long ago like 
for women like their biggest sexual 
organ is their brain right it's true for 
men too yes it really really is and when 
we think about what sex is at its core 
it's adult play it's like the one time 
as adults that we can just let our 
imagination run totally wild we can be 
silly we can be goofy we can be serious 
we could have a Persona and the only 
Point unless of course you're trying to 
conceive or something like that the only 
point of sex is pleasure that's it that 
is the reason we do it pleasure and 
connection but it's 
play play play play so we need to treat 
it that way and I think we just 
sex often feels so heavy and a lot of 
the work that I do with clients is just 
kind of making it not such serious 
business 
playing we're exploring get creative get 
curious about the person that you're 
with 
abso freaking lutely and get curious 
about yourself and your own body and if 
you don't know yourself how can you best 
guide someone else so talk about this 
because there's so there's so much 
stigma thank God that's starting to wane 
at this point around self-pleasure 
masturbation so much of it especially 
for women come you know religion there's 
so much shame that's been put around it 
right and so now we're in 2022 so 
whether you're 22 years old or listening 
to this or you're 72 years old listening 
to this it's okay to do this it's okay 
to do this and it's never too late to do 
but if you're 70 years old and you've 
never taken a look at your vulva now is 
the time 
[Laughter] 
honestly it's she's she's down there and 
she is interesting and she is unique and 
she can feel pleasure it's just about 
giving yourself permission again that 
Curiosity and I think that we generally 
put a lot of pressure on Partners to be 
mind readers to know exactly what to do 
with our bodies and then you know I say 
to people all the time well what do you 
like sexually like what actually does 
feel good to you and your body and a lot 
of the time people look at me and they 
say oh well I don't know shouldn't 
shouldn't they know that like shouldn't 
they've they've been with you know other 
vulvas that I've never done you know 
it's like no no you live with me every 
moment right sure she's there like right 
now always attached you and I really do 
I think that it's so quintessential to 
having a good sexual experience to be 
able to give yourself a good sexual 
experience to really know this is what 
feels good for my body this is what 
tends to lead to my orgasm this is where 
my brain goes in terms of fantasy and 
what I like to what I like to think 
about that really gets me revved up gets 
me turned on 
um it sets us up to be able to explain 
that to a partner first of all or show 
it to a partner 
um with confidence with with some kind 
of actual understanding instead of just 
waiting for a partner to read our minds 
and figure it out when often there's 
nothing that's even going on in our 
minds that they'd be able to read 
because we're going well I don't know 
either like I guess just poke around and 
see what feels good that never works 
that doesn't work so get to know thyself 
yes get to know thyself and if for 
people who do have 
um a religious restriction around 
masturbation or something like that you 
can do that work with a partner you 
could have a partner be there 
um one thing that I really recommend for 
people is to masturbate in front of a 
partner if you feel comfortable with it 
it's a really really great opportunity 
for your partner to see okay what do 
they do when they just want to get off 
right you can it saves you from having 
to put words to it you can just show 
someone what you do and it's real it's 
very very intimate it's very vulnerable 
but it's a really good way to just kind 
of hey here's what it takes here's what 
it looks like 
um and most people would be excited to 
be able to witness something that's that 
personal enough right it's like here's 
the owner's manual well here's the video 
there's the owner's manual here if we 
want to just get to it this is what 
works best right and who wouldn't want 
the standard operating procedures for 
their partner I mean of course it's 
about creativity and role playing in 
play and I love how you make that you 
know such a focus of this but really 
knowing yourself and being comfortable 
with yourself will help you to have 
better sex with anybody because then you 
can be like oh hey you know it's like 
knowing your kitchen right it's like oh 
you know that's the bad cabinet don't 
put the heavy stuff in there actually 
put it over here right and you know 
where the all the little nooks and 
crannies are and if you know that in 
your own body as well you're going to 
connect with someone else better 
ultimately it's to your own benefit and 
I think it is our responsibility as 
sexual humans to take responsibility for 
our own pleasure to advocate for 
ourselves to ask for what we want and 
need 
um and it's something that is really 
really hard for a lot of people but I do 
think speaking of that owner's manual 
owner's manual to sexual organs take 
responsibility for your own body's 
pleasure advocate for it it also just 
takes the pressure off a partner and we 
all feel this that kind of like 
am I doing this right do you like this 
remember it's the owner of the genitals 
responsibility 
for those that pair of genitals pleasure 
right you are not responsible for your 
partner's penis you are not responsible 
for your partner's vulva you are 
responsible for your own body 
and advocating and communicating that to 
a partner 
I love that and what about if someone 
says something to you like okay I'm 
taking responsibility for myself and I 
like Acts and let's just say x is 
something that you're not into afraid of 
opposed to do you come across this and 
if so how do people handle that or how 
should dear listener handle that yes 
dear listener 
um I think 
this is really hard it's actually a lot 
of what I see in my office is people who 
are coming in with you know I want to do 
this thing sexually and they really 
don't want to I think the thing that we 
should always keep in mind is that we 
never want to be shaming our partners 
right 
the phrase that we use a lot in the Sex 
Therapy world is never yuck somebody 
else's Young so if someone says to you 
oh it feels so good to me if we could X 
Y and Z whatever it would be you never 
want to respond with it oh my God ew 
what's wrong with you that's so weird 
right because oh my God how shaming how 
terrible for your partner who's just 
done this really vulnerable thing in 
Sharing what they want what would feel 
good to them what would feel good to 
their body remember that it's always 
hard to do that and we always want to 
create a safe space for bringing those 
requests 
bring those requests to the table that 
being said just because your partner 
wants to do something doesn't mean that 
you have to 
right that there's no kind of like well 
he brought it to me in a nice way and he 
invited me to so I guess I gotta do it 
because it's what he really likes 
um we always get to check in with 
ourselves just as you never wanted to 
yuck somebody else's yum you also don't 
want to Yum somebody else's yuck so if 
someone's going oh that feels really 
really uncomfortable to me I really 
really don't think I could do that you 
never want to go what are you talking 
about it's the best thing ever you'll 
love it right that's so invalidating of 
that feeling so what I invite you to do 
instead is get really curious right what 
is it about that that you think would 
feel good what are the pieces of it that 
are really important to you what are the 
pieces of it that don't feel good like 
what's the worry 
um the example that I'll use because it 
comes up a lot is anal sex right A lot 
of times when it comes right down to it 
and you ask you know what is it about 
anal sex that 
you're looking for well I really you 
know I've played with anal stimulation 
on my own and I really like this 
sensation and then it's kind of like 
okay what can we use can you do some of 
what you do on your own and I can be 
present for it what's your worry about 
anal sex right I'm worried it will be 
hard it will hurt okay can we do some 
research on that and figure it out can 
we test first with something small right 
start with your pinky and move on up 
um 
I'm worried that there's gonna be poop 
that's gonna come out right okay right 
what can you do to get out ahead of that 
um when are we gonna shower right really 
have a conversation about what is it 
that's 
that's bringing up that yuck feeling 
what is it that's bringing up that yum 
feeling right get it the why and then 
you'll be able to have a really 
non-shaming conversation about what you 
want to what you want to try and where 
you want to negotiate there's certainly 
nothing wrong 
with with choosing to have a sexual 
experience with someone when it's their 
thing and not yours right I'm doing this 
as a gift to you if you can show up as 
kind of a I just I love doing this for 
you and it brings me joy to see your joy 
great if it's making you feel that ick 
if it's making you feel like 
um 
any kind of that disgust feeling or if 
it's making you feel used or 
uncomfortable right then that's not in 
that yes yes yes category and we really 
want to make sure that we're not 
coercing our partners to do something 
and most Partners really don't want 
their partner to show up to something 
that they're really not comfortable with 
so it's always better to voice that if 
you don't want to do something but again 
it's all about non-shaming never ever 
shame your partner for what they want or 
what they don't want but just getting 
really really curious 
and this again 
dear listener comes down to everything 
that we're talking about in some way 
shape or form has one common element and 
that's knowing yourself and being able 
to communicate in a healthy way just 
like you would you know if you were 
negotiating paint colors for your 
bedroom like ultimately and I don't mean 
to make light of this but if you think 
about it really in its simplest terms 
it's I like this you like that or I 
don't like this and you like that how do 
we meet in the middle why do you like 
this color why don't I okay maybe we can 
have a lampshade in that color right and 
this is it's so much about your comfort 
with yourself and what you want and your 
comfort that this human will hear you 
and respect you and not shame you 
exactly exactly it's all about creating 
that environment where it's safe 
safe to say yes safe to say no 
um and I love that paint color analogy I 
talk about food a lot right like how do 
you decide where you're gonna where 
you're gonna have dinner when you 
disagree about where you're gonna cook 
dinner you had dinner you're not arguing 
about who's who's right and what's 
objectively better you're talking about 
okay well we did have a lot of pizza 
last week so what if we went there and 
maybe I'll order something else right 
you have a conversation you negotiate 
you talk about it 
and 
and Rachel as as people get older and 
we've you know maybe been around the 
block a few times or maybe it's not even 
age related it's you know we get you 
know we get the gift that sometimes 
keeps on giving and never goes away 
um the STIs and I know and I know that 
you know the data show that the majority 
of people have something or lots and 
lots of people have them and so what do 
you what is your advice to people about 
talking about hey I've got this 
when do you do it and how do you do it 
oh it's such a tricky topic and it's 
something that 
something that I feel so passionate 
about is starting to reduce this stigma 
about STIs and I think 
um it starts with the language that 
we're using around STIs a lot of times 
people will say like I want to make sure 
my partner is clean and it's like oh so 
if they have an STI they're dirty like 
think about what that does it puts us in 
a situation where there's so much shame 
around bringing up the idea of an SGI to 
a partner that people are less likely to 
disclose because it's not actually a 
safe place to do that we know that to 
your point there 
like two-thirds of the population have 
HSV-1 which is the oral herpes which can 
be transferred generally 
um about 15 percent of people have hsv2 
nearly everyone who's sexually active 
will have HPV at some point in their 
lives I mean this is we just have to 
accept that there is some inherent risk 
of Contracting an STI when we're being 
sexual this is the thing I actually love 
comparing it to because we all have such 
an acute experience with this now is 
covet right we're going around with our 
masks saying six feet apart from 
everyone we were assuming that every 
single person had coveted even if they 
were asymptomatic and for most of us 
that didn't mean that we were locking 
ourselves in a room and never leaving we 
were just being really really careful 
and taking precautions about okay 
I'm going to wear a mask when I'm around 
these people I'm going to talk to people 
about what their boundaries are around 
covet who else are you seeing right are 
you wearing a mask with those people 
right these are the same kind of 
conversations 
if you do have an STI that you need to 
disclose to someone which I recommend 
doing fully clothed before the moment 
right before the moment there's already 
enough tension in that moment you never 
want to drop a bomb on someone in an 
environment where they're having to 
react right away 
um and just remember that the way that 
you talk about it 
most likely they will your partner will 
model what you're putting out so if you 
put it out there in a way that's oh my 
goodness I have to tell you something 
and it's so so awful and you're probably 
gonna hate me and you're going to want 
to break up with me and I can't believe 
it remember this is not uncommon the 
likelihood that your partner also has an 
STI is pretty high even if they don't 
know it 
um so what you want to do is you want to 
say hey 
here's what it is 
um I have 
hsv2 it's herpes I had one outbreak when 
I was 17 and I haven't had an outbreak 
since I take daily Valtrex to make sure 
that 
you know that I'm not having outbreaks 
that it's well managed I think that we 
should use a condom a barrier method if 
we're going to be sexual 
how does that sound to you do you have 
any questions right it's just matter of 
fact it is what it is recognize that not 
you know that stigma is out there people 
may have a big reaction of Furs they may 
need to take take a beat 
um come down from it do some Googling on 
their own 
um 
and remember that it doesn't have to be 
a death sentence to a relationship it 
doesn't have to be a death sentence to 
being sexually active 
um it's everyone has to do their own 
risk reward analysis when they're 
deciding to be sexual with someone just 
as we were deciding whether to let 
someone into our coveted pod right same 
kind of thing 
um so just again never never do you want 
to shame someone that you're 
um especially when you're entering into 
such an intimate relationship with them 
absolutely and you never also want to 
shame yourself yeah right yes I see so 
much of that people's people feeling 
like they're broken or they've done 
something wrong and again it's so so 
common it's the cost of doing business 
um and and and 
the medicine that we have around it is 
good A lot of these things 
um you can you can manage most of these 
things a lot of STIs are treatable right 
you can treat them right away and then 
you never see them again but even for 
these STIs that don't go away you can 
live with them you can manage them you 
can have a full and beautiful sex life 
we just we gotta kill the stigma yeah 
100 and I love that life is moving in 
the direction slowly of killing stigmas 
around mental illness and STIs and 
masturbation so many of the things that 
we're we're talking about in here 
um let's hop to some of the hot 
questions okay our listeners and you 
guys if you don't know this by now you 
probably are like geez these chicks are 
going there so we're going there and you 
guys have asked the questions so it's 
really interesting how many questions I 
have about 
female 
genitalia and grooming and what do men 
like and what do men expect so 
what do you think give us the goods 
Rachel 
whenever I hear a question like this and 
it is it's kind of surprising to me how 
many questions we did get about this I 
think about okay how would I respond if 
someone asked me 
do men tend to prefer women that have 
long hair or short hair 
right even if there were an overwhelming 
way that most men lean does that mean 
that you should go out and get a haircut 
so that men will deem you more sexy 
right it's women should have the hair on 
their heads yes that makes them feel 
most authentic to them that feels good 
on their body that they know that they 
can take care of in a way that fits into 
their lives 
um that has them feel comfortable and 
confident which is ultimately the most 
sexy thing same goes for the head that's 
on it anywhere on your body 
including your genitals do some folks 
have a preference yeah I mean I know I 
personally love a man with a beard I 
think beards are very very sexy have I 
dated men without beards yeah would I 
ever push a partner to grow a beard that 
they weren't willing or didn't feel 
comfortable with or didn't want to have 
to take care of no it's their face it's 
their choice I think the same goes for 
pubic hair right if you really have no 
preference about what you're doing with 
your own pubic hair which some people do 
you can ask right some people will have 
a preference one way or another if 
you're asking make sure that you're 
prepared to hear the answer that you're 
not going to get offended if someone 
tells you that they prefer something 
that's not what you're doing 
um a lot of people don't have a 
preference about their Partners 
um about their Partners pubicare 
um it's also important to remember that 
there is a biological reason that we 
have pubic hair oh it's there to help 
protect our vulva protects from bacteria 
it can also really change the sensation 
of sex right it prevents from that skin 
to skin chafing or if your partner has 
pubic hair and you don't you can get 
some of that like rug burn when you're 
having sex that can feel really uncomfy 
so if that's something that's happening 
for you just keep it in mind pubic hair 
is natural so if you want it go for it 
if you don't want it get rid of it it's 
really it's really your body your choice 
right that this idea that we have to 
change our bodies so that the people 
that we're dating will be more 
comfortable with it it's kind of like 
okay again let's prioritize ourselves 
let's prioritize our own pleasure here 
exactly and again it comes back down to 
being really comfortable with the person 
that you're with and that you're going 
to expose yourself metaphorically 
physically all of the things with and if 
this person loves you like Rachel said 
okay I might think beards are sexy but I 
would certainly be able to fall in love 
with somebody that didn't have a beard 
and nor would I push him to grow a beard 
and Rachel and I know each other because 
we have a very good common person in 
common her mom is a very good friend of 
mine and your mom is a gynecologist and 
a surgeon and one of my favorite bits 
and Lauren when you listen to this I 
hope I'm not misquoting you she did it 
and you can probably quote this study 
that she did where she surveyed a bunch 
of men I don't know if it was a hundred 
or a thousand on what they preferred 
from a pubic hair standpoint and the 
basic punch line to it is they really 
don't care they just want to be invited 
to your party exactly exactly no one is 
scrutinizing us the way that we 
scrutinize ourselves they're really 
really not 
yeah we're being sold into a lot of 
services I think right Beauty Wellness 
we're always going to be told we're not 
good enough because that sells products 
and services so sometimes I can be a 
little bit of a skeptic around this so 
just listen to what Rachel and her 
brilliant mom and these brilliant women 
are telling us is just be yourself do 
what's comfortable and authentic for you 
and if you feel like somebody will shame 
you or judge you I would say is that a 
good partner for you right right minimum 
here we want someone who's going to 
respect our choices exactly exactly and 
love you for you in your own choices 
right 
um okay so great question you do you boo 
with your pubic hair 
um the next question I'm 41 years old 
with not a lot of experience was married 
for 17 years What's the sex protocol 
hmm 
what I mean by sex protocol yeah it 
sounds like probably what I was asking 
about right the third date Rule and you 
know 
about what feels comfortable to them in 
terms of when to have sex 
um 
if they're referring to like 
what are kids doing in bed these days 
um 
I think that for a lot of people it can 
be really comforting and helpful to read 
books about sex right if you're feeling 
like I don't really know 
um my own Anatomy or partner's Anatomy 
or what would feel good there are so 
many great books out there podcasts 
um sometimes if you've been out of the 
dating and sex scene for a while you 
just kind of want to reintroduce 
yourself to the idea of sex I recommend 
I recommend podcasts a lot because it 
just kind of gets you used to hearing 
the words and how people are talking 
about it what people are talking about 
um 
watch some good sex on TV right figure 
out just kind of get getting yourself 
back into that sexual mindset but I 
think the short answer is there is no 
protocol it depends you get to build a 
life a sex life that really works for 
you and works for the person that you're 
dating 
um there are 
all of the rules are flexible here 
absolutely and what I take from this 
question to LeapFrog off of what you're 
saying is you know what are the rules 
the rules are that 
self-check-in what are the rules you 
want do you want to just go out and have 
some Benders as some of my clients will 
say I need to do a basic equipment check 
I know you don't want me to have stuff 
right now until I'm in an exclusive 
committed relationship but I'm just 
gonna go out and do a couple of things 
I'm like that's fine go do your 
equipment have your fun you know what I 
said my only job is to make you not fall 
in love with someone who has Sinister 
intentions so as long as you're you go 
into it Eyes Wide Open girl you go do 
that equipment check so the rules are 
yours so 
um the rules are completely yours so 
um this is this is funny six dates and 
no kiss yet question mark 
foreign 
you know I just and I don't know who 
asked this question or who they're 
dating but I gotta say there are two 
pairs of lips on those dates and both of 
you are just as able to initiate a first 
kiss as the other one I think especially 
when it feels like it's been too long 
um people tend to just kind of wait for 
the other one to make a move and if 
you're both waiting for the other person 
to make the first move you're going to 
be waiting a really really long time 
um 
consent is sexy so if you're curious 
about why there hasn't been a kiss or 
you're wanting a kiss you can just ask 
you don't have to leave in you know and 
hope that they're just feeling the exact 
same moment that you are something 
that's just you know hey I'd really like 
to kiss you I've been wondering when 
we're gonna have our first kiss right 
it's lovely it's sexy it's endearing it 
makes sure that you're not getting 
people right it's brave brave it's Brave 
right and this idea and I think again we 
get caught up in these scripts about 
who's supposed to initiate the first 
kiss if you want to kiss someone 
initiate it ask go for it and chances 
are they've just been waiting for you to 
do it too if they're still dating you 
then they probably want to kiss you 
I love that 
um you know there's so many questions in 
here about you know sex after menopause 
sex at 65 how do the men perform right 
and how you know is there anything that 
you would 
especially tell people that feel like 
they're in an older age bracket you know 
like oh yeah it's going to be really 
different or yeah not really like just 
get it together and do the things we've 
been talking about you know everything 
that we've been talking about applies to 
every single age that being said we do 
have to recognize that there are and I 
won't speak too much to the medical 
changes because I'm gonna stay in my 
Lane here but there are medical changes 
and especially if we're looking at you 
know women past menopause yes you're 
going to notice some things like more 
difficulty with lubrication some vaginal 
dryness 
um maybe some difficulty with orgasm 
these are fixable problems right just 
because something is normal does not 
mean you're not allowed to fix it or 
address it and you can go to a doctor 
who specializes in sexual medicine who 
specializes in menopause which your 
gynecologist might not so check that out 
and fix it we do know that you know 
men's penises do become or erections 
become less reliable as we age what we 
do tend to see and what's really 
interesting is that there are studies 
that show that those who stay sexually 
active 
you know you can be sexually active till 
you're 100 if you want to be 
um they do tend to report that their 
sexual experiences actually get better 
and more pleasurable and what people 
tend to do is they start to focus more 
on what is the feeling in my body they 
focus more on the pleasure on the 
connection 
you get to know your body a little bit 
better because you've been living in it 
longer right and you've been doing all 
of this work around self-exploration and 
getting to know yourself and we don't 
Focus as much on performance on how hard 
is his penis on how wet is her vagina on 
how many orgasms do we have and we just 
start to focus in a little bit more on 
Pleasure and sensation and eroticism and 
if you're able to make that shift away 
from performance and towards pleasure 
sex just gets better and juicier and it 
gets back to that we can make out for 
four hours and it's just so exciting 
kind of sex so 
if you want to be sexual it does not 
matter how old you are you can be sexual 
and yeah your body is going to change 
and again there are lots of things that 
you can do about that 
um to make sure that again we don't want 
sex to hurt so sex is painful you 
especially want to see a doctor about 
that but yeah there is no no no limit to 
when and 
at what age we can be sexual I love that 
and you know if I can just put a pretty 
bow on this entire conversation you know 
somebody asked and this is just a great 
way to wrap it up is it healthy to want 
amazing sex in chemistry with your 
partner 
and I would say hell yes 
yes hell yes to that yes absolutely 
absolutely 
and I think that we've talked so much 
about how to do that and I think what I 
want you dear listener to do is unwind 
all of the crap that we're being fed 
like Rachel said through Hollywood and 
what we think things should be like and 
oh my God it's perfect and everyone 
orgasms 100 times per night and like at 
the same time and it's always perfect 
and sex should be perfect it's throw all 
of that out of the window have the 
clunky sex 
communicate be with someone who feels 
like they are safe to you be with 
someone that you can talk to and laugh 
with I would say if you don't feel that 
way about this person why would you do 
this in the first place right even if 
you're doing an equipment check and 
you're like I just want to get laid find 
someone that seems fun and as a good 
listener and is interested in you and 
you can laugh with okay right if your 
mechanic is hot and flirts with you all 
the time you're like I just want to go 
have a bender with my mechanic well he 
should be nice 
yes right right just because we're 
having we're having sex outside of a 
relationship context doesn't mean that 
we still don't deserve all of these 
things that we're talking about focus on 
your own pleasure asking for what you 
want connection play right these are the 
this is the recipe for a good sexual 
experience in and out of a relationship 
absolutely and so 
it is healthy and normal to want amazing 
chemistry and amazing sex all of you 
listening and so I hope you have had the 
amazing Goosebumps I have had through 
this entire episode Rachel Zar thank you 
for your Brilliance and for bringing 
common sense to something that's so 
incredibly emotional I'm sure you 
listener or breathing a little bit of a 
sigh of relief and taking the pressure 
off of yourself and taking the steering 
wheel of your own body into your own 
hands and maybe you're kind of excited 
about what you're going to do this 
weekend and get to know your own body 
whatever that is we can plan sets 
weekend plans set so thank you so much 
again for being here you're amazing of 
course thank you so much fella so much 
fun as always 
