during the summer you can see that 
online dating numbers usually 
historically decrease around 25 to 30 
percent people take breaks from dating 
although we hear a lot about summer love 
there's a lot of low in the dating pool 
so get excited the dating market is 
about to heat up again so what i wanted 
to talk to you about today are eight 
what i call small changes that are going 
to lead to big results in your dating 
life these are little things and these 
are things that lindsay eileen and i 
coach our clients around on a daily 
basis and i hope that 
one of these two of these or eight of 
these resonate with you and that you can 
start to see i don't have to do 
something massive in order to get 
massive results sometimes it's just 
being at that right place at that right 
time that sliding what do they what is 
that moving sliding doors it's one of 
those moments 
