[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love hey smart 
daters happy August I hope you guys have 
had a great summer we were on vacation 
last week and we went to Asheville North 
Carolina and had never been there and 
you know we dropped my daughter Jaden 
off for school on next week early by the 
time you're you're listening to this 
podcast I will probably be somewhere on 
Route dropping her off to college so we 
wanted to squeeze in one last holiday 
with the kids so we went hiking and 
biking through the Blue Mountains in 
Asheville and if you haven't been it's 
amazing a totally memorable trip and 
we've got so many gorgeous places to see 
in the U.S so if you haven't gotten 
there I highly suggest you think about 
it because we had an amazing time and 
you can always message me and I'll tell 
you all my favorite things to do and our 
own Lindsey Anderson Our dating coach 
gave me all of these tips because her 
family lives in Asheville so 
um so what I want to talk to you about 
today is I can't believe that we're 
almost 
into the middle of August gosh it is the 
middle of August and that means it's 
Labor Day that means it's back to school 
that means Halloween that means 
Thanksgiving and that means Christmas 
and Peak dating season I know it sounds 
so crazy that all of these things are 
coming and this is when the most dating 
fun really starts to happen all year 
during the summer you can see that 
online dating numbers usually 
historically decrease around 25 to 30 
percent people take breaks from dating 
although we hear a lot about summer love 
there's a lot of Lull in the dating pool 
so get excited the dating Market is 
about to heat up again so what I wanted 
to talk to you about today are I think 
I've got eight here eight what I call 
small changes that are going to lead to 
Big results in your dating life 
potentially so these are little things 
and these are things that Lindsay Eileen 
and I coach our clients around on a 
daily basis and I hope hope that one of 
these two of these or eight of these 
resonate with you and that you can start 
to see I don't have to do something 
massive in order to get massive results 
sometimes it's just being at that right 
place at that right time that sliding 
what do they what is that movie the 
sliding doors it's one of those moments 
so so let me jump right into it and tell 
you how you two sitting there on your 
phone swiping maybe you're on your 
desktop right now maybe you're in your 
car listening maybe you're on a walk 
um but I want you to think about Point 
number one which is change your online 
parameters okay 
what does that mean to you it doesn't 
mean starting to settle and emailing 
people you're not attracted to that is 
not what I'm talking about I'm talking 
about think about the things that you 
might be Auto programmed to select how 
old the person you want to be with is 
what radius they live in What ethnicity 
what religions all of these kinds of 
things and sit back and think about hmm 
could I be more flexible and change one 
of my online parameters every year for 
example that you change up in your 
dating search so let's say for example 
you are 42 years old and you've said 
well I'd be comfortable with people that 
are 39 all the way up to 47 well what I 
can tell you is if you go down a year if 
you say 38 and then up to 48 what you've 
done now think about it when you 
increase it just by one year on both 
sides you let in hundreds if not 
thousands of potential new candidates 
into your search because the algorithms 
on sites and apps are very literal okay 
so if you say 47 they're not going to 
show you somebody who's 48 or 49. so you 
can do this with inches in height right 
I'm five foot three right the majority 
of women start their height searches at 
five foot ten if you've watched my TED 
talk you know that tall ideally over six 
feet is the number one aspect that women 
look for in their dream guys so what I'm 
telling you here is you know everybody's 
the same height lying down okay if you 
know what I mean I won't I don't have to 
get graphic with you but so really think 
about wow if my height parameters are 
you know let's say it's Bella I'm five 
foot three and I like to wear four inch 
heels so that would put me at five seven 
so I need someone who's three inches 
taller than me right that's where that 
five foot ten number comes from that's 
why the majority of women start their 
height search at 5 10 and remember the 
average woman height in this country 
across white black Hispanic Asian is 
five foot five for women right so if you 
think about it that's the calculus women 
are doing so 
plus or minus 
give a little flexibility to height 
ladies okay you're not going to be 
wearing four inch heels most of the time 
if you're like me I walk around in 
pretty flat sneakers or sandals or boots 
most of the time my husband which many 
of you know he's five foot five and a 
half maybe five foot six if he really 
like poofs his hair up really high and I 
used to date guys that were all six feet 
tall and I can tell you there's nothing 
wrong with tall there's nothing wrong 
with not tall I'm just saying small 
changes that can lead to Big results so 
if you think about it small changes if 
you guys have been following the podcast 
and listening to the episodes you can 
listen to the episode with Nancy holla 
who told her love story you can listen 
to the um podcast of a couple of weeks 
ago of sugar who told her love story but 
both of these women were very good 
examples of people that changed made 
small changes at the last minute on 
their online profiles which led to that 
last first date which led to Nancy holla 
finding David Bruce why because her 
height search Nancy's six feet tall she 
had her height shirt set at 6-1 and when 
I finally convinced her let's look at 
six feet also Nance because you're in 
Flats most of the time in came David 
Bruce into her search now they're 
happily married with sugar sugar lives 
in 
the city and expanded her radius to 
include northern Milwaukee she lives in 
the city of Chicago so she went I think 
it was 100 miles in her radius that's 
how she met Justin had she not met him 
had he not shown up in her matches they 
would have never met either so really 
think about the little things that you 
might be able to change and remember you 
might go oh I don't want to change the 
height I don't want to change the age 
and we've got so many stories about this 
because my ex was 15 years older than me 
and he was awful and I'm never going to 
date somebody that much older again 
listen sometimes that's correlation not 
causation it's not the big age 
difference that caused the friction in 
your relationship it was a mismatch of 
you know of values to some extent so 
don't make those correlation causation 
errors just promise me that you'll 
change something up in your height in 
your radius something little to see who 
comes into to your inbox okay now change 
number two this is a fun one and this 
idea was generated by my friend and 
Mentor Rachel Greenwald so she wrote a 
book years ago I think it was called um 
how to find a husband after 35 and in 
that she said play a game called Three 
Blind Mice and I love that and it harks 
back to the old uh fairy tale Three 
Blind Mice but what she meant by that is 
get online and find three people that 
you would normally never be interested 
in and just to broaden your own 
parameters if they sound good I'm not 
saying people that have red flags okay 
I'm saying people that you're like okay 
this person isn't quote unquote my 
normal person that I would message 
message three people that aren't quote 
unquote your type right and start a 
conversation with them and see how it 
goes maybe push your boundaries to have 
a video date with one of these people 
remember one of of my most important 
adages in the dating World which every 
one of my clients and there's been 
thousands of Smart dating Academy can 
attest to love will always come to you 
in an unexpected package so if you need 
another way to just shake yourself up 
and push your boundaries a little bit 
Play Three Blind Mice find somebody 
who's got a profession that's very 
different than yours maybe an 
educational level that's very different 
than yours maybe their religion is 
different than yours I don't know what 
that is but people that you wouldn't 
normally connect with and just find 
places to connect with and challenge 
yourself to find three things that you 
like about this person when you start to 
have conversations these things guys 
they really can change our psyches and 
you'll start to see wow I never thought 
someone who lived in blah blah would be 
ever be like someone I would even like 
but I really want to be friends with 
this person I never thought someone who 
you know was an HVAC person would be a 
good fit for me as a dating coach or 
pretend it's me but we had so many 
things in common and we ended up growing 
up in the same city you never know so 
play Three Blind Mice online that's 
something you can do today and message 
three people that you wouldn't be likely 
to and be proud of yourself for changing 
things up now 
Point number three in small changes that 
you can make for big big results is I 
want you to change something internally 
I want you to change your story whatever 
that story is we all have what I call 
that crazy person that sits inside of us 
that squawks at us all the time you're 
too old you're too fat you've got too 
many kids you're damaged you're never 
married people are going to think you're 
a commitophobe you've been married too 
many times you've been divorced four 
times nobody's ever going to deal with 
that so all of that stuff we want to 
change our story around that so 
we've got these things that just play on 
repeat and they tend to bring us down 
right so change the story of the things 
that you're telling yourself that are 
keeping you stuck keeping you stopped 
keeping you in a negative place or I 
actually have a good story for you 
around changing your story so I had a 
client some years ago named Jill who 
lives in New York and 
Jill liked to go to singles events but 
she quickly got frustrated because she 
said you know what when I go to these 
singles events there's usually like 25 
women and two guys right it's a total 
bus I did my hair I did my makeup I got 
my nails done I dressed up and I went to 
this event and there were no dudes right 
and the two dudes that were there were 
you know best friends with each other 
and never talked to anybody else so here 
what I told Jill to do was change her 
story look at the other 24 women in the 
room as potential new friends and 
importantly matchmakers for you so she 
said well what does that mean I said if 
you've got 24 other women in there each 
of them knows at least one to two single 
men that they couldn't date maybe it's 
their brother maybe it's their cousin 
maybe it's their ex that was a great guy 
but just not right for them for whatever 
reason women are inherently really good 
matchmakers okay so I said she change 
your story and when you walk into the 
next party or the next event walk in 
with an open mind and get to know as 
many women as you can and be interested 
and interesting so she met she went to a 
birthday party with my advice in her 
head that weekend and she said Okay most 
of the people here are couples and okay 
she says but I'm gonna talk to every 
person here like they could be a new 
friend or a new Matchmaker so she 
approaches this woman named Sarah and 
Sarah and Jill start talking and so 
Sarah said well you know tell me about 
you and Jill who is very open she says 
oh well one of the best things I've done 
in the last couple months is I've hired 
a dating coach so Sarah says what's a 
dating coach right and so Jill starts 
talking about what we do at Smart dating 
Academy and Sarah said oh my gosh I 
think I would love to become a dating 
coach so Sarah went on to think about 
becoming a dating coach and a Matchmaker 
through her conversation with Jill and 
Sarah had an amazing brother named John 
and John was a corporate executive by 
day and he also did stand-up comedy by 
night and she said Jill I think you're 
so awesome and you're single and my 
brother John is single and he's really 
smart and he does stand up and for those 
of you that haven't done stand-up comedy 
it's really really hard and it takes a 
lot of courage to do that and so Sarah 
set Joe up on dates with her brother so 
look at what happened Jill changed the 
story that she was telling herself about 
singles events that are populated with 
only women being a bust she changed her 
mindset and boom walked into a party and 
walked out of there with a set up date 
and had converted someone into a day 
coach which is amazing right so so Point 
number four small changes that lead to 
Big results right if you're going online 
at the same time every single day change 
it up okay if you do it every day from 
your desk you know at work or let's say 
you can't do it at work every day you're 
doing it at 10 pm after you've gone to 
the gym after you've cleaned up your 
kitchen after cooking after after after 
change it up maybe wake up 15 minutes 
earlier than you normally do in the 
morning where you can look at it with 
fresh eyes maybe right after you work 
out and you're having your green juice 
or your vanilla coffee I love vanilla 
coffee so that one just came to my mind 
so think about doing things at a 
different time because the algorithms 
show you different people at different 
times of the day so if you want to look 
at a different group of people it's like 
thinking about walking into a shopping 
mall right if you walk into a shopping 
mall at 10 A.M you're going to see a 
very different group of people than you 
are potentially going to see at 6 PM 
right because at 10 A.M you might see 
moms that are there with their kids or 
retired people that are there for their 
walks but if you go at 6 PM you might 
see people that are leaving work that 
are going to the mall and so I give you 
the same analogy for online dating 
change it up you might see a different 
cop of people just based on how our 
algorithms are working at that time so 
and you know it just sometimes changes 
up your energy too when you do something 
different you have different Renewed 
Energy so maybe as you go online at a 
different time you're going to see 
people differently and in a more 
positive life because you've got the 
dopamine of doing something different 
you're excited right so you've got a 
little bit of adrenaline so change up 
the time that you go online and you will 
see that you'll probably start to see 
some different people and Vary that up 
all the time you guys on a side note I 
love intermittent fasting and what I can 
tell you is people always ask me what do 
you do for fasting I change things up 
all the time just to keep my body 
guessing right and I want to give you 
that same analogy here for maintaining 
check your apps at different times to 
keep the algorithms showing you new 
people and to keep a little adrenaline 
floating through your system and on that 
number five small changes that lead to 
Big results if you'll work with me on 
this one I think you're going to love 
this change if you haven't done it 
already turn off notifications on social 
media as especially your dating apps I'm 
out sometimes with my friends and I see 
how their phones blow up every time 
somebody posts something on Facebook or 
comments on a post or Instagram their 
phone continues to buzz all the time I 
have no notifications on my phone 
because I would go bananas looking at 
that now with the dating apps same thing 
shut the push notifications off so that 
you're only seeing notifications for 
people that you've matched with or 
getting messages when you actually log 
on to the app every time you look at 
your phone and there's a notification 
you feel compelled because that's what 
they do with phones they want the 
technology to addict us right shut off 
the notifications on your phone give 
your brain a break from dating apps and 
from social media so that you are in 
control you've got the drivers you've 
got the steering wheel you're in the 
driver's seat of when and how you want 
to look at social media or your dating 
app so 
small change that leads to Big result 
number six change your dating site or 
dating app every one to three months 
okay so many of you throw a few photos 
up write some text have the app open and 
you just leave it there add infinitum 
you don't change anything that you're 
doing on the app and you certainly don't 
change the app itself well what I want 
to tell you is don't marry yourself no 
pun intended to any one site or app have 
a fluid strategy and a lot of the sites 
will try to incent you to buy 
memberships for a longer term and giving 
you a lower monthly rate just do it on a 
monthly basis if you're going to do it 
because give it 30 days give it 60 days 
see how it goes and that then will give 
you the space number one to focus only 
on that cider app or maybe just two at 
the same time that's all I ever 
recommend and then at the end of that 30 
or 60 days then you can look at another 
site and another app have a whole new 
peel 
um have a whole new pipeline of people 
potentially because it's a different app 
and you'll have a renewed Vigor and 
energy because you're on a new site or a 
new app and anything new leads to 
excitement leads to Adrenaline leads to 
us feeling really like more attracted to 
the people that we're seeing so that's 
what I would say keep it fluid right so 
that you can always try something 
different you can try paid sites you can 
try free sites you can try the upgrades 
do things that work best for you now 
Small Change number seven and this is 
especially for you working guys and 
working gals don't go straight from day 
to date okay change things up by 
changing your outfit change up your look 
this doesn't sound like a lot but trust 
me it is we say I'm gonna go to The 
Powder Room to freshen up go home and 
freshen up your look or if you have to 
be in an office bring a new look with 
you okay at least transform your day 
look into your night look one of our 
clients throws on her Berry lip and that 
is her signal and she's got a special 
red that she uses for her dates so 
whenever you do that change up your look 
cue yourself that you're actually going 
to do something personal for yourself 
this is not a date it's not a 
professional meeting it's not you know 
your condo association board meeting put 
yourself in a dating mindset have five 
different things that you do maybe as 
your date looks maybe guys if you've got 
throw on a sport coat always always for 
a date women love that look when you are 
stepped up and you look like the man 
with the plan your date's gonna go a 
hell of a lot better than if you show up 
looking you know slumpy dumpy like 
you've worked at home all day or even 
worked worse couch surfed right and for 
ladies same thing you know when you see 
people that are walking out of their 
offices and 5 30 at 5 30 in Chicago or 
Manhattan or LA and you can just see the 
stench of work on them they've got their 
work outfit on and maybe flip-flops or 
gym shoes change that up freshen 
yourself up not just by putting on new 
lipstick but you might want to do a full 
outfit change just to judge yourself up 
Spritz on a little perfume a little 
cologne judge up your hair change your 
look believe me changing your look will 
change your mindset and potentially lead 
to you feeling sexier more handsome more 
beautiful and therefore radiating that 
confidence and what's intoxicating and 
sexy and magnetic is your own personal 
confidence there is nothing more 
intoxicating more flirtatious or more 
attractive than being with somebody who 
is self-confident in their own skin and 
I know every one of you listening to 
this is very beautiful and very handsome 
and I'm just so glad to be chatting with 
you about this one-on-one and the last 
change that I want to tell you about and 
this is a big change right small changes 
that lead to Big results right change 
the internal clock that you have that is 
constantly putting pressure on yourself 
to find love in a certain period of time 
okay 
we work with clients for example on a 
one-on-one basis usually for six months 
or 12 months but one of the first things 
I tell clients that want to work with us 
is turn the time clock off just because 
you're signing up for six months or 12 
months with us doesn't mean for example 
that you're going to find love in that 
time it means that you are going to undo 
old habits and put new ones in their 
place and learn how to do this the right 
way and you're going to have guardian 
angels for six months or 12 months but 
get that time clock out of your head 
that I need to find love in six months 
or 12 months and for you sit back and 
think about it what do I tell myself oh 
my God I'm turning the big 6-0 or 
whatever that big number is for you for 
some of you I talk to people that are 29 
I talk to people I had a client in the 
studio today that's 69 years old and 
turning those numbers sometimes the big 
3-0 or the big 7-0 can really feel like 
a lot and oh my gosh the whole dating 
world is going to change the minute I 
have to say I'm 30 or I'm 70. that's a 
story that you're telling yourself okay 
it's not true I've done research on 
people that have understated their age 
by seven years and looked at the same at 
the results that they were getting when 
they had their truthful age they didn't 
get any better or any more results by 
lying about their age okay so stop 
that internal clock right finding love 
is a journey you don't want to settle 
for somebody if you're feeling lonely 
think about all of the love that you 
have around you you have love you have 
the love for yourself you have the love 
that your friends and your family and 
your co-workers and your neighbors and 
the people in your inner Village have 
for you you're not lacking for love 
right you're on the Quest for romantic 
love so whenever you say I'm lonely I'd 
be so much better off if I had love you 
do have love and remember that so I want 
you to change that internal clock that 
you have by telling yourself what being 
a psychotic Optimist what's our Mantra 
love will come to me it's when it's not 
an if and I am in it to win it because 
dating and finding love is a marathon 
hell it's an ultra marathon it is not a 
Sprint so I hope that phase eight small 
changes that I've gone through will help 
you to get some new results if not big 
results in your dating life and as we 
get into Peak dating season we love 
coaching people one-on-one it's what we 
do best you've heard the love stories if 
you need some help if you need some love 
you've been following this podcast 
follow me at smartdatingacademy on 
Instagram WE Post twice a day and you'll 
get lots of fun you know whiz kid tips 
about dating you'll see lots of reels 
you'll see lots of things in my stories 
sign up for a free newsletter go to 
smartdatingacademy.com fill out any form 
and you'll be entered in to get our 
newsletter or most importantly go to our 
one-on-one coaching page and sign up 
invest in yourself sign up for a 
consultation for 30 minutes or 60 
minutes and we I promise you will start 
to set you on the right foot for your 
dating life so I bid you today farewell 
if you love this episode sewed please 
write a great review I would love that 
so much we're always trying to give you 
the best content so when you let us know 
what resonates with you it means the 
absolute world and share this download 
it do all of the things and until next 
week I send you big love Fairy Godmother 
Vibes psychotically optimistic Juju love 
is out there for you my friend it is a 
when not an if and you are in it to win 
it 
have a great week 
