michelle roberts dr roberts she's a 
psychotherapist a journalist and a 
professor and her work focuses on the 
intersection of culture relationships 
and modern narcissism did your study 
show correlation between people that had 
early childhood trauma and people that 
would accept the narcissistic abuse 
trauma reenactment theory which is 
vander cult's theory maintains that this 
subconscious attraction to familiar 
trauma whether they're experienced as a 
child or adult or both it's repeated on 
behavioral emotional physiological and 
neuroendocrine levels so this isn't just 
something that you choose this is really 
something that is in your nervous system 
people can heal from this but it sounds 
like there's some really 
exciting things that can be done to make 
life better 
