how do you educate people on are you in 
a toxic relationship or is this a you 
problem okay so this is my favorite 
question because this always surprises 
everyone if you go on any social media 
platform the word toxic is everywhere 
and because it's everywhere it has 
really made people believe that there's 
a checklist that goes with toxic you 
know um if they're toxic they must fit 
this box this box this box this box and 
this box and in reality what we miss is 
we are the ones that get to decide who 
is healthy for us and who is not it 
doesn't make a difference if they're 
checking boxes or not checking boxes if 
it's not feeling good to you you get to 
make the decision on whether that person 
stays in your life or at what level they 
stay in your life and we really don't 
think or realize that we we are the ones 
that make that decision 
