[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love welcome to this 
week's super fire super hot episode 
where I have with us somebody who is 
going to build your dating confidence no 
matter who you are what the number on 
your age is what the number on the scale 
is I don't care but I'm so happy to 
introduce my friend and personal trainer 
Stephanie Mansour Steph welcome thank 
you Bella I'm I'm gonna read a little 
bit about Stephanie so you guys know 
that we're bringing the we're bringing a 
real heavyweight on here and I don't 
mean that physically no pun intended but 
she really Steph really knows her stuff 
stuff is a nationally recognized health 
and fitness expert and she's the host of 
her own show called step it up with 
stuff you can see her basically 
everywhere if you're alive and have it 
pulse steps on The Today Show she's been 
on Dr us CNN Fox ABC and NBC basically 
everywhere on Earth and you know Steph 
reaches more than 52 million viewers per 
month so Steph welcome again and we're 
so excited to have you because building 
dating confidence is something we work 
on at Smart dating Academy and I know in 
your practice it's really really 
important so tell us you know kind of 
tell us what you do with coaching 
clients being single dating Fitness like 
give us all the things and then we'll 
get into it okay great Bella well I love 
your podcast and I'm so happy that we're 
doing this so thank you very much and I 
know the clients I have sent your way 
are so happy with you as as their leader 
too so our feelings are mutual 
oh I'm so glad to hear that well and you 
know many of my clients are you know 
struggling with their weight so as a 
weight loss coach I do focus on the nuts 
and bolts of how we can lose weight the 
nutritional side that physical side with 
the workouts but also the emotional side 
and the spiritual side because many of 
my clients fellow are very successful in 
their careers and and their go-getters 
they're driven but half of them you know 
are happily married and the other half 
are single and not happy about it so 
they feel like losing weight and 
reclaiming their health and their 
Fitness and their self-care is the 
missing ticket before they feel 
confident enough to start dating but 
what I try to do is I try to help my 
clients to get all these things going in 
tandem so we can date while we're losing 
weight even if we're not at the exact 
place that we want to be with our bodies 
physically we can still feel confident 
in knowing that we're working on it and 
we can still actively date at the same 
time because I know you know life is 
short time to go after what you want 
don't use any you know excuses I call 
them to hold you back don't let your 
weight hold you back how you look how 
you feel feel about your weight or how 
you feel about your size and just focus 
on being the best you possible every 
single moment so I really work with my 
clients on that Bella and I just love 
that we're going to be having that 
conversation today and that's all I 
couldn't agree with you more on 
everything that you're saying you know 
at Smart dating Academy is as you well 
know we help people with the dating 
process and one of the steps in our 
process is they come to Chicago to get 
their photos done for like having great 
you know natural not cheesy Glam shots 
but like cool lifestyle shots for online 
dating and every single person literally 
regardless of what one would think was 
overweight or what someone else wouldn't 
be like oh my God you're so thin nobody 
comes to me saying I'm so I'm So 
Satisfied with how I look it's always oh 
my gosh do you think I should lose that 
last five do you think I should lose 50. 
do you think I should be doing this and 
it's such a big issue for both women as 
well as men quite frankly so I know that 
that's why I wanted to have you on here 
to talk to people about how to be 
physically fit emotionally fit 
spiritually fit and I know that you've 
got what you call kind of five 
counter-intuitive ways to kind of 
committing to feeling good about 
yourself to being more physically fit 
and emotionally fit so tell us tell us 
your first one yes so my first one Bella 
is to commit to be fit and the reason 
why this is counterintuitive is because 
I'm not just talking about physically 
being fit I'm not just talking about you 
know going on a walk to feel better or 
committing to a workout regimen or doing 
strength training to tone your arms I'm 
talking about being mentally fit as well 
so if you're constantly talking 
negatively to yourself and you you know 
I have clients that come to me too they 
either want to lose five pounds or maybe 
50 pounds you could not tell the 
difference between the self-talk of 
someone that's five pounds away from 
their goal weight versus 50 pounds it is 
still body shaming coming from the 
source and beating ourselves up and 
talking negatively and saying you know 
gosh why did you eat that or why can't I 
fit into this you know outfit it's that 
sort of you know beating up we do to 
ourselves no matter how much weight you 
want to lose and the self-talk is is 
very similar so committing to be fit not 
only do I want you to commit to you know 
how to move your body every single day 
this could be a walk around the block or 
this could be a more intense workout 
regimen but I also want you to commit to 
be mentally fit and in doing that I 
encourage my clients to write down 
positive affirmations about themselves 
and write these affirmation sound as if 
they are in the present day tense so if 
your goal is to be you know a size 10. 
then I want you to write out I am 
happily a size 10. and I want you to see 
it and that's going to help sink into 
your subconscious so that you start 
believing it and that is part of being 
mentally fit Bella oh I love that and 
stuff when somebody does kind of trash 
themselves in a way I always say if you 
wouldn't say it to your best friend why 
would you say it to yourself and when 
somebody let's say you know asking for a 
friend here if somebody if somebody digs 
into you know a bag of pita chips or 
something or a piece of chocolate cake 
and then you're telling yourself at the 
end of the day oh my God I totally 
failed I blew it today I suck I can't do 
anything I don't keep promises to myself 
how do you help someone to get back on 
track to catch that self-trash talk and 
how do you re-rail it like tell me like 
a hack for that yes so what I recommend 
is the second that you catch yourself 
saying something negative to yourself I 
want you to slap yourself on the wrist 
like like maybe a little kid who's like 
touching you know a a hot stove slap 
yourself on the wrist do something 
physical that's gonna really catch your 
attention stop relax your shoulders take 
a deep breath and say I'm choosing not 
to beat myself up so literally stop in 
your tracks do something physical so 
that it shocks your brain and then move 
on from there now you bring up an 
interesting point Bella because a lot of 
times you know if we're finding 
ourselves eating sort of uncontrollably 
or going for the junk food or having 
more than one serving of the pita chips 
oftentimes this is because we are not 
eating enough protein so especially as 
women to speed up our metabolisms and as 
we get older we need to be eating 
protein every three to four hours to 
keep our blood sugar levels up here 
rather than having those Peaks and 
valleys those ups and downs because when 
we're on a down part that's when we 
crave and overeat but carbs the sugar 
the unhealthy fats so I also you know 
bringing this a step further if you find 
that you're caught in that trash talking 
from eating junk food or overeating food 
uh it may actually not be a matter of 
willpower it's maybe more so a physical 
you know your body physically needs more 
fuel 
yeah and in addition to that and I love 
eating protein every three to four hours 
and you put that into my my mental piggy 
bank but also ask yourself in that 
moment you know weight is something I've 
always struggled with since I was a kid 
and now what I've learned to do is ask 
myself what do I need right now 
do I need more pita chips am I eating my 
feelings what do I need and how is this 
instant gratification this is my new one 
is instant gratification going to lead 
to worldwide domination no it's just 
funny I read that somewhere and I was 
like okay is this extra serving of pita 
chips really what do I need right now do 
I need to de-stress am I anxious about 
something do I need to journal do I need 
to call my mom and chat with her or talk 
to my husband do I need to go work out 
what do I need in this moment because 
it's not the food if I'm not hungry yes 
yes and you know to piggyback off that 
Bella I have a client um she was she's 
an executive CEO she was in her low 50s 
and she would come home from every every 
work day and Order carryout mostly a 
pizza and then have you know she would 
say one glass of wine she would have the 
whole bottle of wine and what I 
encouraged her to do is to try to view 
her post-work evenings not in reaction 
to work so not to become you know a 
vegetable on the couch but how can she 
actually rejuvenate what does she need 
to feel de-stressed Unwound and more 
feminine and softer and more relaxed so 
just in changing that mentality we were 
able to shift her you know gradually 
into wanting to make something nutrition 
for nutritious for herself into wanting 
to order an expensive kale salad instead 
of you know pizza and breadstick from 
Domino's so really focusing on like what 
do you need to feel good is is a very 
you know simple but often overlooked 
tack to to you know being mentally fit 
yeah absolutely and it might be as 
simple as you need a hug you need a kale 
salad but really ask yourself and catch 
yourself in the moment what do I really 
need so I love that be committing to 
Being Fit physically and mentally that's 
a great one and Steph you say that we 
should commit to 
owning our own self-care tell me what is 
that yes so again many of my clients are 
very very busy and they're getting a 
massage you know every two months I get 
a massage almost every week because it's 
like the one thing that makes me feel so 
good so I really am regimented about my 
own self-care and you know prior to 
doing step it up with Steph and getting 
into health and wellness I was 25 pounds 
overweight I could not lose it for the 
life of me I was trying diets and 
workout plans and it wasn't until I 
really started to do you know slower 
calm or breath work I started doing more 
self-acceptance exercises studying 
psychology and women's studies and and 
really focusing on me and who I am and 
what I need so one of the things that I 
work on with my clients is how can they 
own their self-care and integrate it 
into their lives so 
um you know not to you're the date coach 
here but I I will say you know when men 
see that you are prioritizing your 
self-care when you're like oh you know I 
would love to go you know out Tuesday 
night but I actually have my massage or 
oh I'm going to get my nails done or oh 
I have this workout class but I could 
meet you 30 minutes after the proposed 
time when they see that you're owning 
your own self-care it actually you know 
this you know makes makes you more 
attractive to them but it also makes you 
more attractive to yourself so being 
able to you know I've dated for a number 
of years and um you know I didn't have 
this issue with self-care but when it 
came to things like my hobbies you know 
oh well maybe I could skip that you know 
tennis game that night so I could go 
meet this guy or maybe I could you know 
Skip my singing lesson to to go on a 
date you know but the more I was 
committed to the things that I wanted 
that made me happy the better I was able 
to attract men who also upheld how I was 
caring for myself not not only with the 
self care but also you know with my 
hobbies so that's great and and you're 
right we respect people that respect 
themselves yes right and it's okay to 
say if somebody says do you want to meet 
out for dinner it's okay to say you know 
what I'm trying to stay light this week 
I would love to hang out how about we go 
for a walk and we can grab some coffee 
afterwards right people are so receptive 
to those things and oftentimes what I 
found in trying to turn my own health 
regime around this here is when you are 
when you when you tell someone that 
candidly they're like oh my God me too I 
would much rather go for a walk than 
meet out for wine even though who 
doesn't like meeting out for wine right 
to be honest I certainly do but then 
when you when you put that out there 
like I'm trying to take care of myself 
that usually inspires people to say me 
too and so 
um I I like that and then we can keep 
our promises to ourselves which is so 
important important and that comes back 
to your first point committing to Being 
Fit and treat yourself like you would 
others guys if you you would in order to 
have relationships if you make a promise 
you have to keep your promise you have 
to keep your word and there's no more 
important relationship than you with 
yourself and so if you commit to doing 
the thing whether it's to Being Fit to 
doing the meditation to you know doing 
the singing lesson or the tennis game 
keep your promises to yourself 
so attractive so attractive and stuff 
you say then 
connect to your big reason why talk 
about this yes so oftentimes my clients 
you know when we start talking about 
dating their reason why they want to 
lose weight is so they can date if 
they're single and so they can feel 
confident to date so I you know me Bella 
I'm like digging deep deep okay well why 
don't you feel confident now okay why do 
you feel like the weight is holding you 
back why do you feel like someone's not 
gonna like you even though you're 
actively losing weight you know we dig 
dig dig so I want you to commit to your 
big reason why like why do you want to 
be healthier to lose weight to exercise 
more whatever your goal is why do you 
want to do that what's your big reason 
why and nine times out of ten it's 
because they want to feel good about 
themselves and you know it's not like I 
want to lose 10 pounds because I hate my 
body like that's not the big reason why 
the big reason why is I want to lose 10 
pounds because I want to feel proud of 
myself accomplished I want to feel good 
about myself so if you keep you know 
hitting yourself over the head with that 
saying that's going to keep it at the 
Forefront of your brain so then you are 
more naturally inclined to say you know 
what yes I would like to meet you but I 
can't meet till 7 30 because I got to go 
to my workout class 
I love that and every time when you're 
connected to your why and your deepest 
level of why it becomes very easy to 
talk yourself into keeping that 
commitment and talk yourself out of 
breaking that commitment because if my 
why is I want to feel right sized in my 
body and I want to feel confident when 
I'm on dates then I'm going to keep 
those promises to myself and not dig 
into the bag of Cheetos or whatever that 
is because I'm connected to my why 
instead of connecting to the instant 
gratification that I might need in that 
moment and that gets back to why do I 
want to have the second helping of this 
I'm really stressed out what would make 
me feel less stressed and not beat 
myself up an hour later right is this 
going to make me feel better or worse in 
an hour yeah powerful questions to ask 
yourself and if it's not going to make 
you feel better in an hour don't do it 
right connect to your why and then have 
that plan and that set of questions you 
can ask yourself is this my why am I 
being consistent am I keeping my promise 
to myself and go do something else and 
most likely your hunger will stop 
grumbling really quickly or go eat some 
protein like stuff said right yes 
and and Steph you say that we should you 
know to kind of build our dating 
confidence overall or build our 
confidence in ourselves we should share 
our self-care and or our health routine 
now how it what does that mean and how 
do we do that without seeming like we're 
like tmiing somebody right 
well I say I sit in my clients Bella who 
are actively you know losing weight and 
want to be with a partner who is active 
and who does value their health but 
maybe they feel like right now they 
personally don't look the part in quotes 
So what I recommend is that you know in 
your conversation on your dates you 
share things that you're doing that you 
know not like word vomiting like oh like 
you know my my Apple watch says I burned 
500 calories and my muscle mass is now 
this you know not not that I love that 
I'd be like oh my God tell me more mind 
you I 
but you know that's what I do so we geek 
out over this stuff though right but you 
know like say oh yeah you know I started 
working out with a trainer and it's been 
like a high if someone says you know 
what what'd you do this week or what'd 
you do last weekend oh you know I 
actually started working out with the 
trainer and I I'm really enjoying how I 
feel in my workouts or like oh what's 
your favorite food 
um you know I would say I love I love 
fries but you know when I try to be 
healthy I ate more sweet potato fries 
you know like share little nuts and you 
know nuggets about the things that 
you're doing with your date especially 
if you're still feeling self-conscious 
about where you're at in your own health 
Journey 
um because that's going to show the 
person that you take your health 
seriously even if you feel like you 
don't look that way it's still going to 
communicate to that person that this is 
like a a normal part of your life and if 
they want to be with you then you know 
they need to have a little bit of 
Interest or focus on it themselves as 
well 
I love that and it puts you in a 
position of looking strong right even if 
you say yeah I've started working out 
with the trainer and maybe you feel like 
you know you're over the weight that you 
want to be and you're putting that out 
there it also shows a level of promise 
and respect and of of commitment to 
yourself and it shows that you are 
taking active steps to take care of 
yourself and so I think those are great 
conversations to be able to have on 
dates where you can really get to know 
each other at a deeper level and then 
support each other and it's like oh my 
gosh I'm trying to do that too or I 
would love to work out with the trainer 
who's who are you working out with what 
are you doing how do you feel and it's 
so great because I think at the end of 
the day most of us kind of get into that 
category where we beat ourselves up yeah 
we all want to make improvements so 
sharing your routine from a position of 
strength shows that I'm aware of myself 
and I'm actively trying to change and be 
better right that's so attractive yes I 
agree 
that is sin I love this next tip that 
you have about being flexible I could 
certainly use uh some advice around this 
tell me about what it means to be 
flexible and how you help people to do 
that and to get your confidence you know 
Bella this is this is another 
counter-intuitive tip because most times 
when you think about you know okay 
losing weight be or being healthy 
working out more eating healthier you 
know you think of like a very rigid plan 
a formulaic you know program so that you 
can't break yeah you cannot break oh my 
gosh you know I'm doing dry January or 
I'm doing Whole30 or I'm doing 
um you know 5 a.m workout every day or 
I'm going this 7 PM yoga class you know 
we're very like All or Nothing many of 
us you know by Nature 
um so so the flexibility piece and this 
kind of goes against one of my other 
tips but you know the flexibility piece 
if someone is trying to actively make 
plans with you you to go out on a date 
and if your life is very full and 
especially with the self-care you know 
it's getting Fuller if you do need to 
make time and prioritize a date then you 
can be flexible with let's say that 
scheduled workout or that meal plan for 
example one of my clients was doing 
Whole30 
um which also basically dry January and 
her um this guy she was going out with 
had made reservations for a Linea and it 
was a surprise if you made them like two 
months in advance and she was like Steph 
I just like I should be so excited but I 
feel so stressed out I don't know what 
to do and I was like you know what this 
is balance this is flexibility this is 
part of our like softer feminine energy 
go have fun you know enjoy elenia this 
is huge like you've been wanting a guy 
that wants to take you I'm getting 
Goosebumps just thinking about this 
again Bella but you know being being 
flexible and letting yourself off the 
hook sometimes 
um is is really helpful when it comes to 
being committed to your health and 
wellness Journey 
um and you know this is she did you know 
be flexible with the food if we need to 
be flexible with a workout time then 
just be flexible switch your time to 
maybe the next day or maybe earlier in 
the day or maybe flip flop a couple 
things around not all the time but if 
push comes to shove and if you are 
feeling like your schedules too jammed 
you need to make time for that date you 
can move around your commitments to 
yourself 
that's right I love that life is go with 
the flow especially when you're out 
there and you're dating right and if 
someone asks you out and let's say you 
know you're an intermittent faster 
that'd be me and you don't want to eat 
dinner tonight because you're gonna do 
like a big lunch and then you know wait 
till tomorrow to eat but if if that's 
the case be gentle with yourself and 
just say you know what I'm gonna pick 
this up tomorrow because this is a great 
opportunity to spend time with this 
person and be okay with that because 
ultimately building your confidence and 
building you know a healthful mindful 
lifestyle requires flexibility we can't 
become so rigidly attached to something 
because as soon as you're rigidly 
attached and I've been through every 
weight loss everything in the book so I 
could talk about every way I've beaten 
myself up but as soon as you think oh my 
gosh I can't do this I can't eat the 
fries today I can't have over blah blah 
calories or whatever it is you 
immediately start to berate yourself 
yeah you do that and now you're on a 
date that person is going to feel that 
energy shift with you right they're 
gonna feel that energy shift so if you 
agree to go to a Linea do what's going 
to make you feel good when you go to a 
Linea keep your energy High because if 
you start to beat yourself up the person 
across the table is going to say hey 
what's wrong I sense you're a little off 
is everything okay and you don't want to 
do that at that point commit to tomorrow 
is another day right exactly yes and and 
knowledge is power so when you know that 
that's what you're gonna do you're gonna 
feel more empowered to recommit the next 
day so when you know that you can be 
flexible it gives you more of a pass a 
little more like loose grip on the Rope 
to be able to you know feel good that 
you can tell yourself what to do rather 
than the diet tells you or the workout 
plan tells you or the trainer tells you 
exactly guys eating one extra meal or 
missing workout is not going to make you 
gain a pound right I promise you okay so 
be gentle with yourself make those big 
commitments like stuff saying commit 
yourself commit to your self-care commit 
to your Fitness mentally and physically 
catch your negative self-talk like she's 
given us so many gems already but wait 
there's more because I asked Steph to 
also give us five healthy and fun hacks 
that we can do to commit to our 
emotional and physical fitness before a 
date so Steph tell us tell us these 
things because I know we're all 
listening and going okay how do I do 
this and build my confidence and feel 
good and feel fit before a date yes okay 
so I've got five but you could be an 
overachiever and do all five if you want 
or you can be an amazing woman and just 
do one of them so the first one is 
positive affirmations in the mirror so 
this kind of goes back to like making 
your own Mantra and owning your 
self-care but what I like to do is put a 
sticky note on my bathroom mirror that 
says I am awesome or I am hot or I am 
cool or whatever I feel like I need to 
hear as I'm in the mirror getting ready 
that's what I that's what I put on a 
sticky note on my mirror so that I'm 
looking at my face and I'm seeing the 
sticky note I have my clients do this as 
well 
um you know you could change the sticky 
note before every date whatever you're 
feeling in the moment write it in big 
bold letters with the magic marker on 
put it on your mirror the next tip is 
some sort of workout now you might be 
saying stuff I don't even have time like 
I can hardly curl my hair so how can I 
even do a workout you know this could be 
just something that gets you into your 
body so if you're in the bathroom 
curling your hair do some calf raises 
get up onto your tiptoes it feel your 
muscles engaging you could also pretend 
like someone's punching you in the 
stomach so you pulse your abs in you 
pull your abs in tight not while you're 
doing your lipstick or mascara but you 
know just pull your abs in maybe when 
you're brushing your hair if you do have 
time for a five minute workout research 
does show Bella that exercising for just 
five minutes boosts your confidence and 
your self-esteem so you look at yourself 
in the mirror and you think about 
yourself differently after just a five 
minute workout I love that you can do 50 
jumping jacks totally yes you can do 50 
jumping jacks some squats right do some 
knee push-ups right yes and suddenly 
you've got endorphins and you know 
probably some dopamine right through you 
so I'm a huge huge fan of of some sort 
of workout some sort of movement and it 
doesn't even have to be stuff right it 
doesn't have to be right before the date 
it can be sometime during the day I mean 
hell if you can build in a little one 
right before right that's great but it's 
like the day of the day you don't have 
to do this while you're getting ready if 
you can and do a walk do a run do a bike 
ride sometime that day you'll reap the 
benefits of it even during your date yes 
absolutely it'll carry you through for 
at least 12 hours so even in the morning 
is is fine oh my gosh I just getting 
back to positive affirmations yeah you 
know one that I thought of and I want to 
share for all of you singles men and 
women out there maybe an affirmation on 
your mirror could say I am sexy and 
confident in my body yeah period put 
that on your mirror okay and I want you 
to say that to yourself because as soon 
as you say I am sexy and confident 
you're going to switch yourself into 
that mindset shift so affirmations like 
stuffs that are important so if you guys 
need a concrete hack take mine I am sexy 
and confident in my body write that down 
slap it on your mirror I want to hear 
those slaps right now and put it on your 
mirror so okay let's go into your your 
hack number three stuff okay hack number 
three goes back to what we were talking 
about Bella about the food and 
stabilizing blood sugar levels so you 
can show up to a date like very fatigued 
or you could show up maybe a little too 
hyper and both of those things can come 
from a lack of protein so we need to 
show up to our date feeling balanced so 
I know some of my clients you know they 
were used to saving up all their 
calories so they could eat and drink on 
their date not good to show up starving 
I don't know if you're gonna be hangry I 
don't know if you're gonna have too much 
hyper energy if you're gonna have too 
low energy I need you to show up stable 
steady you know cool calm collected your 
natural self if you're normally hyper 
and energetic okay but I don't want you 
to be overly just because we don't have 
our blood sugar in check so eating 
protein before you go on the date it 
could be a handful of nuts could be a 
hard-boiled egg could be a protein shake 
it could be a full meal if you're going 
out for drinks and not dinner 
um but protein protein protein is it's 
what's going to help stabilize and level 
out your energy and give you enough 
energy without making you feel too full 
or bloated 
that's a great tip and do that right 
before the date and people do all sorts 
of kooky things sometimes before dates 
right and remember when you go out on a 
date it's not about the food okay take 
care of yourself before it's usually not 
a great idea to show up to a date 
starving right right any reason like 
stuff saying you're gonna not be the 
best version of yourself and it's okay I 
once had a a gentleman that we worked 
with who said I'm just self-conscious 
because I come to dates after work and 
I'm so hungry and I said eat a meal 
before you go out yeah you don't have to 
save it eat take care of yourself you 
want to show up with the best energy and 
if you're good having your meal earlier 
where you can control what you're eating 
then you can show up to the date and 
have an appetizer have a salad you can 
do all of those things be flexible and 
take care of your South yes yes well 
said Bella 
yay 
and how do we stuff tip number four 
putting if you have put yourself into a 
happy State how do you do that okay so 
if you've had a bad day or if like the 
last thing you want to do is go to the 
date at the end of the day you know like 
maybe you're looking forward to it and 
then you know it comes around time 
you're like oh my gosh I just want to go 
home and sit on the couch this sounds 
really silly but if you put your fingers 
in the corner of your mouth and push 
your mouth up into a smile it's gonna 
like that that shape of your face 
activates your brain to make you think 
that you're happy even when you're not 
so that's what I mean by put yourself in 
a happy state so if you're really 
struggling just turn up the corners of 
your mouth hold your fingers there count 
to 60. I swear to god it works I do this 
whenever I'm in a bad mood which people 
say you know how am I ever in a bad mood 
but I am in a bad mood sometimes so do 
that and that's gonna help get you into 
a better uh more positive State of Mind 
oh I couldn't agree more and slap that 
smile on your face if you have to hold 
the corners up because your but your 
brain is activated when you put your 
mouth in the shape of a smile you start 
to release dopamine you start to feel 
happier it's a trick and it's an amazing 
trick that we have our daters do and at 
the same time to put yourself into that 
happy state if you need more listen to 
something that makes you laugh listen to 
a playlist that gets your mojo up where 
you feel sexy and confident and happy 
and these are your jams so do these 
things to put yourself into that Happy 
State yes yes I love it it's like your 
own personal pump up session 100 because 
remember your moods are contagious yeah 
when you walk into a date in a happy 
State feeling sexy and confident in your 
body you are going to feel and be super 
attractive yes yes 
and your last tip for us my friend your 
last fun fitness and healthy hack before 
a date 
yes so posture so research shows that 
you look more con people think you're 
more confident when you have better 
posture so what I want you to do for 
this one and we can all do this together 
no matter where you are is bring your 
shoulders up towards your ears bring 
them back and then bring them down and 
that's going to help you lift up your 
chest but engage your upper back so that 
your shoulders stay back your chest 
stays lifted and you stand or sit taller 
so this is the attractive posture that 
we want not only for the person across 
from us Bella but also to signal to 
ourselves because I'm all about you know 
how we carry ourselves and how we feel 
about ourselves and then P.S here's how 
it looks to the person across the table 
from you so if you sit up tall you're 
gonna feel taller you're gonna feel more 
open think about if you're sad if you're 
upset you know you're hunched over 
you're slouched a little bit when you're 
happy when you're excited you're open 
you're you know you're standing tall so 
that's how I want you to feel before and 
during the date no matter what's going 
on across the table from you I love that 
shoulders up shoulders back shoulders 
down up back down up back down all right 
that is your posture workout people and 
that reminds me one um one of my 
favorite TED talks of all time and I 
obsessively watched TED Talks before I 
gave one this past October but is Amy 
Cuddy's talk about power posing and so 
and so to Steph's Point our posture 
makes a difference and Amy Cuddy if you 
haven't seen her Ted Talk she talks 
about how we pose builds our confidence 
at that moment so if ladies you put your 
Le you know kind of stand put your feet 
apart put your hands on your hips stuff 
you can do this too right and you feel 
like Wonder Woman or even better take up 
space put your arms out in a V if you 
look at any Olympic Athlete when we do 
something great we're like yes and our 
arms go up in the air it's because we 
are happy we are confident before if 
you're feeling nervous during a date do 
your up you get your posture back up 
back down yeah or go into the bathroom 
and go power pose spread your legs apart 
spread your arms apart and stand there 
for a minute and you will find your 
confidence levels automatically Rising 
because we are wired as the human 
species to do this if you see gorillas 
in the wild they make themselves big 
when they want to assert their dominance 
right so make yourself big so 
um you just reminded me of one of my 
favorite things Steph thank you so much 
for sharing all of these amazing tips 
with us about building our confidence 
building hopefully our fitness levels 
because we're all so hard on ourselves 
and you my listener are beautiful you 
are amazing you we're attractive just as 
you are and I hope that this episode 
today with all of these gems has made 
you feel like you are sexy and confident 
in your body and you are committed to 
your best health and you can share your 
regimes and all of the amazing things 
and power pose the heck out of yourself 
and get your posture in so Steph thank 
you so much for being here with us 
you're awesome thank you Bella as are 
you 
