[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back to this week's 
podcast 
um I am super excited for you guys and 
for myself to learn a prolific amount 
from this prolific author my friend Sam 
Horn Sam is here with us Sam has written 
10 books most recently this amazing book 
called talking on eggshells and I know 
we talk about walking on eggshells when 
we're talking about narcissists but this 
is talking on eggshells and Sam's book 
is chock full of gems she's written like 
I said 10 total books including one 
called Tung Fu and she's going to tell 
us about this Sam you're amazing a 
goddess thank you for being here with us 
I'm so glad to be here I'm really 
looking forward to sharing some stories 
and insights with your listeners well 
that's fantastic so tell us about 
um tell us about what it means 
to talk on eggshells and what is Tong fu 
you know I was doing a workshop and a 
Gentleman raised his hand and he said 
you know I work for a very tough boss 
and it seems like I can never say 
anything right and I never know what's 
going to set him off and we're all just 
walking around eggshells and I said oh 
no you're talking on eggshells and I bet 
we all have at least one person in our 
life and it seems they're so sensitive 
or we say something and they take it the 
wrong way and talking on eggshells is so 
stressful so this book is about what to 
say in those challenging moments instead 
of thinking of the perfect response on 
the way home 
I love that and this is something you 
had to learn yourself you didn't grow up 
in an environment that said let's talk 
about how to have great relationships 
and communicate 
you know all we all have a habitual 
conflict resolution style and for many 
of us like I grew up in a cold war it's 
uh my dad was emotionally distant and my 
mom was emotionally wounded and they 
were very good people they just didn't 
talk to each other I remember road trips 
with hours and hours of silence and so 
we didn't say anything because we were 
so afraid of like you know is how 
they're going to react and then I was in 
a relationship with a controller and I 
thought when he planned every detail of 
my dates cool right nope not so much not 
so much red alert Red Alert should have 
read that sign and so I learned in two 
of the major relationships of my life to 
always worry and wonder about what I was 
saying whether it was right whether it 
was wrong and this book hopefully is an 
antidote to that so that people don't 
have to deal with that and all the 
stress that come comes with it 
well wonderful so tell you say that we 
need to get comfortable with conflict 
let's start there like conflict is 
inevitable in all relationships right 
whether you have a parent a child a 
partner a girlfriend a spouse a best 
friend conflict you put two humans 
together in a relationship there will be 
conflict and if there isn't somebody is 
giving in and not using their voice 
that's right they're either avoiding or 
accommodating giving in to go along and 
uh or getting angry and upset with 
drawing retreating none of that works so 
unless people are driving I hope they 
get a piece of paper and put a vertical 
line down the center and on the left 
we're going to talk about words and 
reactions to lose and over on the right 
words and responses to use so that we're 
going to talk about arguing and 
complaining and and what to do people 
are blaming us for something that's not 
our fault or accusing us of something 
that's not true and we'll talk about 
what not to do and what to do sound good 
sounds amazing so tell us a situation 
that we should that we could all use 
some tips myself included I have a 
husband I have two teenagers I have a 
mother I have a father I have a brother 
a sister-in-law and lots of friends give 
us your gems Sam Horn 
okay so let's put conflict on the left 
and let's put clarifying conversation on 
the right now you already feel the 
different right because if we're 
conflict diverse we head the other 
direction so how this works is I'll tell 
a short 60-second story then we'll 
unpack it so we can apply it in our life 
whether it's with a a new boyfriend 
whether it's a husband whether it's 
someone at work whether it's an adult 
child sound good sound perfect okay so 
there was a young woman and she was 
working at Salvation Army and she had 
learning disabilities and so holding a 
job was very difficult for her and yet 
she had really applied herself and her 
supervisor told her she was up for 
promotion she was thrilled the very next 
day her supervisor told her she was in 
danger of getting fired now over on the 
left that's a conflict that we feel that 
it's wrong unfair undeserved and what 
many people do and what Bethany would 
have done before she would have maybe 
quit she would have gone home dissolved 
into tears rehashed what happened you 
know maybe fallen into depression guess 
what her therapist had given her four 
words that help us turn a conflict into 
a clarifying conversation 
she went back to her boss the next day 
and she said 
help me understand please help me 
understand how I could be up for 
promotion yesterday and in danger of 
losing my job today and her boss said 
well a customer had complained how rude 
she was and Bethany remembered the 
situation the customer tried to bring 
back a used mattress with the cover off 
store policy can't do that she'd 
politely tried to explain it he left in 
a huff and reported her for being rude 
ah now that the boss knew the real 
reason what had happened 
she apologized to Bethany gave her the 
promotion and thanked her for enforcing 
the policy 
and next time we're in a conflict 
instead of withdrawing retreating 
getting upset whatever those words 
could you please help me understand 
would you please help me understand 
that's so it's seismic I feel myself 
shifting because when something hits me 
I get goosebumps in my arms and I have 
goosebumps in my arms right now could 
you please help me understand 
dear teenager why you broke curfew last 
night and you said you wouldn't 
look now we have a clarifying 
conversation right it's not side against 
side we're on the same side we're 
seeking to understand so now here's 
another situation that follows up on 
that sound good 
awesome 
all right over on the left please put 
wrong something has gone wrong and as 
Elvis said when things go wrong don't go 
with them 
so 
when something goes wrong often we get 
upset and like we attack or accuse how 
could you do that that's so unfair I 
can't believe you said that and we 
attack which escalates it right 
100 percent 
we are going to become a pattern 
interrupt Bella we're going to do you 
play sports by any chance not well but I 
do okay then you know how does a referee 
if people are getting into it how does a 
referee stop it or intervene blows their 
whistle says time out that's right they 
actually this is a physical pattern 
interrupt next time people are getting 
into it actually make a t and say time 
out and then say these words this won't 
help yelling at each other won't help or 
say let's not do this say let's not do 
this blaming each other won't undo what 
happened instead let's and you see how 
you know people are getting into it 
pattern interrupt or stop like or enough 
or yo now switch the attention to what 
we do want to have happen instead of 
what didn't happen that we're upset 
about 
that's so great I know in our house we 
do something called escalation and 
de-escalation so when words start to get 
hot and heavy and because we can all 
push each other's buttons you know 
you're married you've got you raised two 
boys and it takes about seven and a half 
milliseconds for someone to really push 
that button right and here we you know 
in fact last night I was having a 
conversation with my 19 year old about 
breaking curfew and we were very 
peaceful and Andy my husband came in and 
he's the loveliest human and he can be 
incredibly lovely or he can get really 
angry right just and he started getting 
a little bit you know we could tell 
tensions were getting high and my 
daughter looked at me and she pointed at 
him and she says why why is he 
escalating 
she was calm she said it to me and I 
looked at him I said you're escalating 
maybe you need a break 
and he smiled because she called the 
escalation we've been doing this I said 
to them my visual is when someone says 
stop or de-escalate we're like boxers 
going back to our corners 
let cooler heads prevail and then we can 
come back and speak rationally take a 
pause and that brought his temperature 
down Sam in half because his own 
daughter said and the one who was in 
trouble said why is he escalating we're 
talking we're wrapped up in blankets 
having an adult conversation about why 
she did this and so yes you're right 
pattern interrupt is great I didn't 
realize that's what that was but that's 
a great way to think about it it's like 
stop going down the old bad Pathways 
that we go down really fast 
that's and so let's over on the left 
what you did over on the left is play 
the game right people are manipulating 
us controlling us guilt trippiness or 
something like that and we play the game 
defend whatever over on the right we 
named the game it's like hey don't put 
me in the middle on this one right it's 
like a bartender said the hardest part 
of my job is all my friends who come in 
and want a free drink and I said name 
the game say hey you're not asking for a 
free drink are you not anymore they're 
not 
that's right you're not doing it you 
wouldn't ask for a free drink you 
wouldn't you wouldn't complain about 
your meal when there's no bites left on 
the plate because you were looking for a 
free meal now would you with a smile on 
your face like southern women they smile 
while they say everything bless your 
heart you wouldn't be doing that would 
you 
you know Melissa Rivers has a great 
quote about her mom Joan Rivers she said 
my mother was a travel agent for guilt 
trips 
so if we know someone who is a travel 
agent for guilt trips name the game oh 
guilt that doesn't work anymore what 
else you got right well you know it's 
like are you know are you taking your 
bad day out on me you know it's like are 
you trying to make me feel bad you know 
whatever not anymore they're not when 
you name the game you neutralize the 
game 
absolutely you know in the same 
conversation with my daughter and one of 
her big strategies what some people call 
it projection I call it deflecting well 
if I stay out late it's because my 
friend Ally stays out and you know how 
late Megan stays out I said 
you're deflecting let's come back to you 
is it game the game 
over on the left let's put flying Vault 
over on the right put find Solutions 
right 
John F Kennedy said our task is not to 
fix the blame for the past it's to fix 
the course for the future so having 
raised a couple teenagers it's like when 
they would start in all the excuses 
right because they think oh if I 
understand their excuse or their reason 
you know well Chuck Yeager said at the 
moment of truth there are either reasons 
or results 
so we shift over here from reasons to 
results we shift from excuses to action 
and when they're going on and on and on 
about why they didn't do what they were 
supposed to do we wait and then do you 
know what we say 
what's that what was our agreement 
um 
what was our agreement do you see how 
you have just shifted the conversation 
back to the results and the action or 
the agreement instead of all the reasons 
right and the blaming and the deflecting 
yes I I love that well let's talk about 
interpersonal situational 
interpersonal situational awareness tell 
us what that is and you have so many 
great anecdotes in talking on eggshells 
about this so I hand you the mic 
well first let me tell a story about me 
about when I did not have interpersonal 
situational awareness right out of 
college I got a job with Rod labor 
tennis Championship Rod Laver on Hilton 
Head Island South Carolina well they put 
me in charge of representing our tennis 
Resort at the island uh board meeting so 
I was young Bella I was eager forgive me 
I can only imagine a young Sam Horn like 
full of Sizzle Dazzle Sparkle and energy 
well I had lots of ideas and I was 
pretty free sharing them and after about 
three meetings thank heaven for Dale 
shooty who is the general manager of the 
Palmetto Dunes Hyatt and he pulled me 
aside and he said Sam 
you might want to sit on your hands for 
a few meetings now I'd never heard that 
expression before essentially he said 
Sam everyone in that room is senior to 
you and you're doing more talking than 
them he said it's time to listen and 
only offer something if you add value 
ask yourself is it timely is it welcome 
is it additive 
so let's think about relationships Bella 
so often especially if we've been around 
someone for a while we're familiar we 
just blurt right and when we blurt 
people get hurt we just say what's on 
our mind we just talk about what 
happened that day we talk about traffic 
we never ask ourselves 
is it welcome do they want to hear it is 
it additive you know is it good timing 
we're not reading the river and another 
quick anecdote for so that people can 
really get this idea of Isa 
interpersonal situational awareness in 
their mind when I was in high school my 
first boyfriend was a Boatman and we 
would head to the stanislaw river every 
weekend and what did I learn from 
boatmen they're always reading the river 
right there oh I hear a big Roar ahead 
that means there's a rapid now there's 
not normally a rapid there so I'm gonna 
pull over get out walk around and Scout 
that rapid instead of just blunder into 
it wait a minute here where's the 
current where's the v ah I'm gonna align 
with the current because it's easier to 
row when you go with the flow except if 
the current carries me into a canyon 
wall do you see how if we can read the 
room we can lead the room 
so what I'm asking all of us to do is in 
a relationships is like is someone's are 
they clenching their teeth is their jaw 
tight you know can we see that we're 
talking talking talking and they're a 
thousand miles away can we see that uh 
we're in a meeting and we're doing more 
talking than anyone else how can we read 
the room adapt accordingly so that we're 
being additive instead of an annoyance 
oh I love that so it's have a look 
around at the people that you're with 
and see if they look happy if they look 
excited do they look anxious do they 
look worried so maybe if you have you 
know bad news to share with somebody and 
they already look sad maybe now is not 
the right time to put that on their 
shoulders 
see you know Richard Branson said time 
is the new money and I think that time 
is the new trust and when we're with a 
person most of the time they're 
preoccupied with what's going on in 
their life their priorities their needs 
and if we just start talking a lot of 
time it's not appropriate or welcome or 
additive so as you said what if though 
we want to talk about something we did 
what you did earlier we asked hey I've 
had one of those kind of days can I have 
five minutes just to vent and then I 
promise I'll put a sock in it it's like 
hey I it looks like something's going on 
with you what's that well you know I 
just found out 
see once we find out their agenda it may 
take priority over our agenda we put it 
aside what we're doing though is that 
we're looking around and we're doing 
what Desmond Tutu said he said we've got 
to stop pulling people out of the river 
we've got to go upstream and find out 
where they're falling in and this is a 
way of thinking upstream and if we do 
this in relationships we are taking care 
of them in a way that we're being 
considerate and conscious of others 
instead of just doing what we want when 
we want no that's so true you know my 
friend Trish is awesome and she's witty 
and funny and smart and there are times 
where I'll ask her a question you know 
like should I do this and she will ask 
me the most brilliant question she says 
Bella what kind of friend do you want me 
to be right now 
how powerful is that and I've been using 
that everywhere I go I have been asking 
my clients when they're when things 
aren't going well if they're in a dating 
dry spell if they're complaining about 
something or I just don't know I'm like 
can tell me right now how can I be the 
best coach to you 
they they have the answers and to your 
point about interpersonal situational 
awareness sometimes you might be able to 
read it but if you don't know ask the 
question what kind of a friend do you 
want me to be right now what kind of a 
mom do you want me to be right now what 
kind of a coach do you want me to be 
right now and that will show that person 
that you have the e word empathy for 
them 
well let's talk about empathy shall we 
let's go there over on the left let's 
put in patience and over on the right 
put empathy 
and fact over on the left put contempt 
and on the right put compassion 
and there are four words that can shift 
us from empathy from impatience to 
empathy and you know what they are no 
tell me how would I feel 
oh arm Goosebumps again my arm 
Goosebumps I wish you guys could see me 
how would I feel dang wow just wow and 
and here's a 60-second story that shows 
the shift that this makes from being 
frustrated from being uh impatient you 
know is that a gentleman said this 
changed his relationship with his mother 
he said my mom is in a rest home and I 
drive out every Saturday to see her and 
I have to force myself to do it because 
all she ever does is complain 
and he said when you put those four 
words up there I asked myself how would 
I feel if I were in bed 18 hours a day 
seven days a week 
how would I feel if I had to live right 
next to someone and she played the TV so 
loud I couldn't even hear myself think 
how would I feel if days went by and no 
one came to see me said Sammy got me 
right out of my frustration he and then 
he said you had said instead of 
complaining about what you don't like 
create what you would like 
and I had said if you don't like your 
mother complaining if you're feeling 
frustrated with her or impatient what 
would you like 
and he thought about he said well I'd 
like to talk about all our Good Times 
our memories I said take out a photo 
album 
because Queen Elizabeth said good 
memories are our second chance at 
happiness and he got back in touch and 
he said Sam I took that photo album one 
picture of this crazy uncle we had had 
us laughing so hard tears are streaming 
down our face one picture of this 
mountain cabin we went to every summer 
brought back a whole hour of memories so 
once again if we're frustrated with 
someone we've probably only seeing it 
from our point of view how would I feel 
if there if I were in their shoes may 
not like it and may not agree with it we 
may understand it which gives us the 
incentive to be more compassionate 
instead of contemptuous 
I love that I love that so much and you 
told a great story if you don't mind 
sharing it on talking in eggshells about 
a woman who went into the ER 
this is are you ready because these 
techniques work at all ages and stages 
this is my 84 year old Aunt Kate and she 
volunteers at a hospital five days a 
week even during covid and I asked what 
it was like and she said one word 
stressful I said well think of in a 
situation that was really stressful she 
didn't even have to think about it she 
said last week a woman came running into 
the ER to the help desk she said I just 
got a text from my daughter she was in a 
car accident she's in the ER I got to 
see her well NK called and you may 
remember the rules during covid one 
visitor per patient or no visitors there 
was somebody already with the daughter 
and she had to tell the mom she couldn't 
get in to see her well understandably 
the woman lost it and she's screaming 
and crying and now 
those four words again instead of 
thinking why are you yelling at me it's 
not my fault I didn't make the rules see 
all of those reactions make it worse 
right instead how would I feel if my 
daughter were in the ER and I couldn't 
get in to see her and Bella it gave her 
the incentive to turn there's nothing I 
can do to let me see if there's 
something I can do she called the ER 
back she said who is with the daughter 
it was the Uber driver who had brought 
the young woman in Kay was able to 
explain the situation thank him he left 
and the mom was able to get him with the 
daughter once again because instead of 
it's not my fault don't blame me how 
could you say that how would I feel ah 
let me see if there's something I can do 
instead of nothing I can do 
amazing amazing and ladies and gentlemen 
you can think about this even while 
you're on your dates 
can you imagine if we could okay how 
would I feel if if you're sitting across 
from somebody and I'm just Conjuring up 
images right now you walk into a date 
and there's someone who looks super 
anxious right or what how how do we 
shift this situation or somebody that 
just won't stop talking 
very common sorry guys lots and lots of 
women will go on these dates and say wow 
I just had a two-hour therapy session 
where I was the therapist for someone 
stop talking even when I tried to 
redirect the conversation Bella as you 
said I 
um he just we had a guest on some months 
ago his name is Larry Kaufman and he 
said some people just show up and throw 
up 
that's memorable and unfortunately often 
true so what would you like to know what 
to do if someone is going on and on and 
on I would love that 
by the way the comedian Paula Poundstone 
has a great line about this she says you 
know what we need a 12-step group for 
Non-Stop talkers we're going to call it 
on and on and on 
[Laughter] 
that's great so over on the left what if 
someone's going on and on and on now 
Bella we've been told to never interrupt 
that it's rude to interrupt right yes I 
think it can be right to interrupt not 
rude now picture the old fashioned 
scales of Justice remember the lady of 
Justice with the two plates like this 
I think the success of any relationship 
whether it's the first date whether it's 
the first year whether it's whatever is 
whether the scale of needs is kept in 
balance 
see if we're out on a date and the other 
person is talking talking talking 
talking talking talking 
their needs are getting met what about 
your needs you know it's like chances 
are you won't go on another date again 
chances are you're simmering in silence 
chances are you're resenting them it is 
not rude of you to interrupt when the 
scale of needs is out of balance it's 
right now here's what you do use their 
name because if we just start talking 
over them what will they do 
they'll talk louder right or they'll go 
gosh that's so rude I was in the middle 
of a story that's exactly what you 
interrupt me that's right so we say 
Scott or Sally because when people hear 
their name it causes a pause that's a 
chance to get our verbal foot in the 
door now we do either two things if it's 
a relationship we paraphrase what it is 
we said wow it sounds like things are 
really difficult with your brother these 
days or wow it really sounds like that 
that person uh took took their anger out 
on you and that wasn't fair because if 
we don't paraphrase what they said we 
are yanking the conversational ball 
right out from underneath and right so 
paraphrase what it is they said so they 
know we've been listening then you say 
you know what if there's action to be 
taken we say as soon as we finish this 
conversation I'm going to make a note 
and get in touch with that person or as 
soon as this call is over I'm going to 
talk with if there's action say it 
if there's not you say you know what I 
had something like that happen to me too 
is it okay if I share it and ask 
permission to give your or if they're 
convection and going on and on and on 
and on we say you know Aunt Vera I can 
understand that um your everything aches 
and you are sad about not being able to 
get around the way you used to and 
let's talk about what's right in our 
life because I think the more we dwell 
on that the more it brings both of us 
down and that doesn't serve any good 
purpose we've got about a half an hour 
more in this visit and you know I and 
and your granddaughter just had a 
birthday or can I tell you about my trip 
that I've got coming out so that we show 
some empathy and then we shift and and 
we can be a pattern interrupt to people 
who go on and on and on and many times 
they'll be grateful because now we have 
a balanced conversation instead of a 
monologue I love how you did that so 
adroitly it you paraphrase what Aunt 
Vera was doing you gave her empathy but 
then you built a very quick strategic 
Bridge what I would love to do we can 
sit and stew in all that's negative 
which is only going to make us feel 
worse something that I like to do is 
think about what's going right what am I 
looking forward to because it puts me in 
a better friend of mine are you with me 
yes let's do that I love your technique 
of asking for permission 
are you with me is that good let's talk 
about what's going right that's great 
and that's how you can get negative 
people back into the positive first I 
love that you use your empathy in the 
case of that gentleman how would my mom 
feel 
18 hours a day locked in a room with you 
know someone who watches TV that's too 
loud wow that would be really really 
vexing right and then paraphrasing what 
they're saying and then changing it and 
that abruptly but in a very kind way 
that shows them what's in it for them 
see what you're discussing is what's 
called proactive Grace in the book and 
let's put let's over on the left puts 
complain what can we do if someone 
complains right say that uh we're 
supposed to pick up our date uh downtown 
and we leave in plenty of time there's 
an accident on the freeway it's gridlock 
our phone is dead we can't let him know 
we get there an hour late we pull up she 
Yanks the car to open she says you are 
supposed to be here now or go well over 
on the left put explain because we often 
think if we explain why we didn't do 
what we were supposed to do people will 
forgive us uh-uh explanations come 
across as excuses because they feel 
we're not being accountable over on the 
right Take the A Train write down three 
A's a for agree a for apologize a for 
ACT here are two relationship saving 
words next time someone complains ask 
ourselves is what they're saying 
basically true most of the time it is 
that's why they're complaining say 
you're right 
I was supposed to pick you up an hour 
ago a for apologize and I'm sorry you 
ended up waiting so long a for act and 
from now on if I'm gonna try and pick 
you up on a Friday night I'm building in 
a cushion for Murphy's Law 
now that we're accountable and that we 
commiserate with their inconvenience 
they're more likely to say well you 
couldn't do anything about it instead of 
you know well how was I supposed to know 
well my phone was dead it wasn't you 
know back and forth that's what happens 
when we try and explain what went wrong 
nope Take the A Train it expedites 
complaints explanations aggravate them 
and the A train I wrote this down and 
then put it in the show notes agree say 
you're right 
apologize I am so sorry I'm an hour late 
act next time on a Friday I'm going to 
make sure I leave and two hours before 
I'm supposed to catch next time I'm 
going to give you money for an Uber 
you know and Bella especially sometimes 
people say why should I apologize I 
didn't do anything wrong or it wasn't my 
fault and I bet you've heard the old 
adage 
you can be right or you can be happy 
right 
100 
and when we're apologizing we're not 
saying it's our fault we're once again 
putting ourself in their shoes imagining 
what it was like for her for an hour to 
not know who you're in some ditch 
somewhere or if we had ditched her all 
we're doing is commiserating with their 
inconvenience and when we do that they 
will feel seen and heard and understood 
and now they're ready to move on 
and it's so elegant and authentic and 
lovely and I love how you're so pithy in 
the things that you say right you get 
right to it I think you call it in the 
book in phobicity 
I'm talking too much about something and 
even in the desire to apologize or be 
right we can add a whole bunch of stuff 
that might just inadvertently piss 
someone off here agree you are right I 
am so sorry don't make the excuses even 
if traffic sucked which it always does I 
live in Chicago there's four seasons of 
traffic here right yeah and that's it 
don't make excuses later after you've 
done that and you've gotten them to put 
their Dukes down put their weapons down 
right when you all they need to hear is 
your right and I'm sorry then you can 
say traffic was such a beast I had no 
anticipation that it would be so bad 
you see you're you and I are talking 
about the Power of Words and would you 
like a story where one word completely 
transformed what was happening 
please I would love as many stories as 
you have up here 
okay so I had flown to New York to visit 
my son Andrew horn and his son hero was 
a year old so we're getting caught up in 
the living room Hiro cross across the 
floor pulls himself up on a guitar 
that's on a stand in the corner and 
starts pounding on the strings now 
that's over on the left things are going 
wrong right and the reaction is no stop 
to yank the guitar away leave the guitar 
alone all of which would have would have 
escalated made the situation worse 
instead Andrew said one word know what 
the word was 
gentle 
and I saw Hero's face transform in front 
of me and he reached back out to the 
guitar and he went strong strong 
[Music] 
he reached up to some bells on the 
window I went ring ring ring 
and it was because in that moment Andrew 
chose one word that shaped his behavior 
instead of shamed his behavior 
um 
my dad used to say you can't motivate 
someone to do better by making him feel 
bad 
and over on the left when we criticize 
somebody for what they did wrong tell 
them to not do it to stop doing it we 
actually 
reinforce the dreaded Behavior 
If instead know what do we want them to 
do what's a word that paints an image of 
what we want him to start doing we 
actually reinforce the desired Behavior 
we're a coach instead of a Critic they 
learn from mistakes instead of lose face 
over mistakes and they know how to do it 
better instead of just feeling bad 
I love that well can I ask you a 
personal question around this sure sure 
so with the 15 year old and a 19 year 
old we have we have pretty good rules of 
engagements about conflict in our house 
yes and so however their kids and they 
want to be right even if they know 
that's not always the right thing we 
have a code word in our house created by 
me when they when their words I say your 
words are knives 
and even though somebody can forgive you 
knives will leave scars on our skin 
and so my code word when they start 
being aggressive with their words and it 
gets hurtful I put my hand up I said 
you're going hard is that what you want 
you're going hard and that's so I guess 
in samhorn speak that's a pattern 
interrupt yes so I don't know is it okay 
to say it that way you're going hard or 
is it better for me to say something 
about shaping their behavior like be 
gentle with your words 
what a great first year a Kung Fu black 
belt Bella I think they're very 
fortunate to have your centered wisdom 
and example you know Albert Schweitzer 
said in influencing others example is 
not the main thing 
it's the only thing and the example 
you're setting about respect so okay so 
over on the left number one is Accused 
but however you ask right you said 
you're going hard is that what you want 
so see you're asking which is a dialogue 
instead of you're going hard and and see 
that's an accusation if you just leave 
it there 
sometimes I might just say you're going 
hard honestly in the heat at the moment 
just to because it's like it's bringing 
awareness without going hard on them 
this is hurting me you're going hard and 
maybe because I've said it so often they 
do usually shift at that point but I do 
think you're right asking is that your 
intention is that what you want 
and there there's more than one right 
answer right so that's a right answer I 
think another right answer especially 
because words matter they set up Ripple 
effects is like just to look at them and 
say respect 
right respect respect because see that's 
what you want to imprint right is that 
you know it's and and the words you need 
to calm down who boy do those backfire 
because it's in order right you need to 
you need to calm down you need to no no 
no no just eyebrows up respect is it 
there's and and there's another one as 
well is that 
hahaha 
In the Heat of the Moment 
um I know someone who went through a 
very difficult divorce recently and it 
really got crunchy and it's very easy in 
those circumstances to get vengeful and 
vindictive right and they're wrong and 
then all that and I I kept sharing a 
quote from my friend maybe you know her 
Mary Morrissey and she says hold the 
vision 
not the circumstances 
hold the vision not the circumstances 
now Bella what you and I are talking 
about may sound like platitudes or 
cliches or Pollyanna all I know is that 
these two people who were six months ago 
hmm like this are now co-parenting their 
child they're now both happier and 
healthier and it was because when they 
were tempted to go there hold the vision 
not the circumstances 
and the vision for them let's unpack 
that a little bit for people hold the 
vision not the circumstances the vision 
is I want this to be peaceful and I want 
us to maintain as good of a relationship 
as we can as co-parents that's correct 
okay 
I want us on the other side of this to 
be the friends that we were when we met 
each other you know I want on the other 
side of this to set an example for hero 
that you instead of staying in a toxic 
relationship you'd try your best to heal 
it and if it isn't better then you get 
out of a toxic situation I want a model 
for hero the vision is that people treat 
each other with respect 
and so do you see when we have the 
clarity of what we do want and when 
we're getting pulled in other directions 
and it's so doggone tempting if we have 
that Clarity of how we want to show up 
it really becomes a North star 
I love that 
and speaking of these hard conversations 
and things that get crunchy you have 
something called the four-step plan 
p-l-a-n I love how you have these great 
mnemonic devices to help people remember 
these things in the Heat of the Moment 
let's can you tell us about this maybe 
what it is give us an example in a way 
that we can all maybe use like in five 
minutes once we're done listening to 
this podcast 
you bet well can I give you a quick 
example of that 
you know my answer that will be a 
resounding yes okay here's a way that we 
can plan for a tough conversation maybe 
we're going into a negotiation or an 
interview or presentation or a 
performance evaluation or a mediation or 
something like that I suggest 
um if we fail to play we've all heard if 
we fail to plan we plan to fail right so 
I suggest something called a wfi form 
and it's www it's what okay so what's 
the situation 
you know is this a negotiation is this a 
mediation is this or whatever and here 
Bella in that first W what is the action 
I want people to take what is the change 
I want them to make 
so at the end of this mediation or 
negotiation or whatever what's the ACT 
okay you got it next is the W is the who 
all right who are the decision makers 
here or who um who is in this mediation 
with me 
and we ask ourselves what is their mood 
are they locked in and they're going to 
say no over money or no over possessions 
or no over the dog or whatever I believe 
that objections are answers to the test 
and if we know who we're dealing with 
and their needs and interests and 
priorities we can often unblock a 
blockade and I'll give an example of 
this in a moment sound good sure the 
next W is where and when where and when 
is this taking place because I was uh 
speaking for the Cisco channel the 435 
top Executives at Cisco and one of the 
department heads got in touch and he was 
having an all hands meeting on Friday 
and wanted to prepare I asked him what 
time is it and he said four o'clock on a 
Friday afternoon I said Ted no one's 
going to be paying attention they're 
going to have one foot out the door so 
you get ahead of that don't don't have 
your phone wear a watch and the first 
words out of your mouth are you 
anticipate and voice their objections 
you say I can only imagine not I know 
you're thinking that's presumptuous 
right no I can own only imagine you're 
thinking it's four o'clock on a Friday 
afternoon these things normally go for a 
couple hours I'm making a promise to you 
right now we're going to bring this in 
under an hour I promise you will be out 
of here by five o'clock rock and roll 
let's go guess who won buy-in in the 
first 60 seconds because he'd read the 
room and then he led the room right by 
understanding who was in the room and 
how they were feeling and how he could 
prevent a catastrophe so that's the the 
the The Who and the where and when is 
this taking place it matters 
next is why will it be an Roi for them 
what are three reasons they would say 
yes to this that they would agree to 
this as you've mentioned this gets us 
out of well I'm not budging on this as 
well you know I paid for that she 
doesn't deserve any part of that that 
kind of locked in position no is forces 
us to put ourselves in their mind and 
think why would they say yes what would 
they agree to why will this be a win for 
them why will this give them what they 
want so we can bake it into what we say 
and now the last w 
why will it be an Roi for us 
and Bella we never walk into a 
high-stakes situations with only one 
outcome in mind because if that doesn't 
happen oh failure right and then we just 
keep repeating ourselves because we only 
got one game plan so what are three 
options all of which I'm I'm comfortable 
with because then in the discussion if 
we can see that they're not moving on 
this we can pivot to something else it's 
still a win for us that gives them 
something different they want because 
obviously they're not listening to this 
one over here and if we plan ahead and 
you if you may be thinking wow that 
takes a lot of time well maybe five 
minutes and five minutes to increase the 
likelihood that we walk out of that 
situation with what we want and they get 
what they want so we're on the same side 
instead of side against side that's 
worth it 
right your five W's are then seven W's 
with the win-win 
whoa she's quick she's quick and that's 
what you get and I think that it's so 
important and I shared with Sam before 
we were recording this podcast that in 
reading her book over the last several 
days it really helped me to think about 
things more effectively even when I was 
having some difficulties with my 19 year 
old and I thought to myself if she's 
breaking her curfew okay and Sam says 
what do they want what is their uh what 
is the person you're talking to what are 
their priorities what are their 
interests and what are their needs and 
that was such a shift for me to go okay 
she's doing this what's important to her 
having fun being with her friends 
connecting in an environment that no 19 
and a half and 20 year olds want to be 
it right when they have not had any 
supervision for nine months and have 
been living in and out coming and going 
as they please it's like okay now I'm 
understanding from her perspective why 
it shouldn't be a big deal to me mom 
I've been on my own for nine months I 
got straight A's why are you guys doing 
this 
and so to be able to make that shift 
help me to have a very much better 
targeted conversation with her that was 
a win-win we don't want to control you I 
understand it is important to you to 
connect with your friends in an 
environment that they want to be in to 
have fun because you're at home for 
these three months what we need to do is 
make sure that you're safe 
we don't want to control you we don't 
want to micromanage you I just don't 
want we live in a big city we don't live 
in the suburbs right where it's quiet 
and safe we live right downtown and 
along there's so much great activity but 
there's an underbelly to that as well 
I'm like how do we make sure that we're 
all happy we maintain the culture of the 
house because we love having you here 
you know Bella thank you thank you for 
your help 
well it's I I'm so glad people are 
having an opportunity to listen to what 
could be a hard conversation and the way 
you're navigating through it by 
communicating fully so that she gets the 
the underlying wants you know Esther 
perel said behind every criticism is a 
veiled wish 
oh is that powerful so see what you're 
doing here is you're going to the veiled 
wish and 
um you know there's a word that hasn't 
been mentioned yet that I think is also 
a key word in this relationship and 
discussion know what the word is no okay 
60 Second Story will come to the word 
there was a woman who told me Sam I've 
got two 16 year old twin daughters 
they're they're getting their driver's 
license at the same time they're dating 
at the same time she says I'm a nervous 
wreck she said when they're out on dates 
I'm just like you know thinking oh my 
gosh 
and she said my girls came home one 
night and I had was really upset because 
they had broken curfew and I lit into 
them 
and my daughter said something that that 
was probably the most important message 
of my parenting my daughter said Mom 
you think by worrying about us you're 
showing us how much you love us 
you're showing us you don't trust us 
and so we talked about the word worry I 
just can't stop worrying what if 
something and of course the more we 
worry the more we worry right so it's 
like no worries those words on the left 
don't be late don't interrupt me don't 
get mad you know don't run around the 
pool don't worry don't go over to the 
right what do you want ah 
it's about trust and you use the word 
safe we want you to be safe use the 
words we're so glad that you're here you 
know is that we we trust you to use your 
good judgment 
the look at the word seeds that you're 
planting in that relationship 
with your help in this book it was the 
best conversation we've had around this 
so thank you and I hope for those of you 
that are listening mine might have been 
my daughter Jaden this weekend but for 
you there's someone in your life that is 
frictional maybe you know as my mom 
calls it the pebble in your shoe person 
the person that just gets under your 
skin a little bit but if you can take 
yourself out of yourself like Sam is 
saying have empathy say how do they feel 
and closely related to how do they feel 
what do they want 
right and that's the next Bridge every 
conflict in every conversation you have 
can be made I believe so much easier so 
much less conflictual if that's a word 
less abrasive and you can really 
be graceful with that relationship and 
take it to the next level and have that 
person say wow you handled that really 
nicely thank you for that that could 
have gone really badly 
you know pemistroden says do not let 
people pull you into their storm 
pull them into your peace and the words 
and responses are the right are to pull 
ourselves and other people into peace 
into cooperation you know into 
compassion into kindness and empathy and 
it matters it's 
um you know circling back to something 
that you were saying at the beginning of 
our talk today as I was at Dulles 
Airport a couple days ago and with the 
with the wildflowers and um Canada you 
know it's really disruptive travel the 
the man in front of me was yelling at 
the customer service agent the gate 
agent saying you know this is ruining 
our vacation why didn't you tell us 
before so we could have made other plans 
I'm never going to fly blank blank again 
and and when he left she is my turn and 
she looked at me and she was like you 
know stealing herself for another 
Onslaught right 
and I said these words 
nine words ready 
yeah has it been one of those kind of 
days 
and Bella she just melted you know it's 
like oh we're doing the best we can you 
know it's like and it puts us those 
words all these words and responses 
we're talking about on the right trust 
and safe and you're right and how would 
I feel they not only pull us and others 
into our peace they really do create the 
quality of relationships we all want 
sometimes we just don't know how because 
no one ever taught us 
now you're right and one a phrase that 
you said in the book just stuck with me 
I was talking to my sister-in-law about 
it and you say people you know we always 
say Fight Fire with Fire and you say 
actually Fight Fire with water 
and it's like mic drop Sam Horn bite 
fire with water you know to your point 
my husband years ago was traveling with 
the partner on his job and the partner 
was very known for having a temper and 
everybody walked on eggshells around the 
sky and so their flight was delayed and 
they were you know somewhere on the East 
Coast trying to get home it was stormy 
and so the partner of course went in 
front of my husband was like I need to 
get on this plane I can't believe you 
know started berating the gate agent she 
said Mr so and so you're on the list 
we'll let you know if we can do anything 
for you and then my husband who knew 
better and said okay I'm gonna fight 
fire with water and he said to her wow 
you did a great job that was hard 
and she said to him Mr anacone there 
happens to be a seat on this plane one 
left may I offer you an aisle seat the 
partner 
was did not make the flight my husband 
got home 
words have Ripple effects don't they in 
fact Mother Teresa said the world is 
full of good people if you can't find 
one be one and that's the river that 
runs through our conversation isn't it 
is that it matters you know how we show 
up it influences our date it influences 
our partner it influences our family it 
influences gate agents it really I think 
the world is so 
needy in need of individuals who choose 
to go first and set an example of 
kindness and compassion and I think when 
they experience it they're a lot more 
likely to respond in kind 
I love that Sam you are brilliant thank 
you for being with us and 
can we order This brilliant book tell us 
where we can get it we'll put links in 
the show notes Amazon your site 
well both in fact they can go to Amazon 
if they want the book right now because 
you know it'll show up in within 24 
hours and if they want some of these 
quotes that we've been sharing if they 
want to uh see like a tedx talk that I 
gave on this uh they're welcome to go to 
samhorn.com and in fact we have an offer 
Bella it's free for anyone who would 
like it shall we share that 
share with me I want it too 
okay you know we've been talking about 
words to lose and words to use and if 
you just go to Sam at samhorn.com and 
ask for the words towards to lose we'll 
send you a reminder card you can 
actually put it on your refrigerator it 
helps everyone catch and correct it's 
like well I know it's important to you 
but it's like well you should have 
failed the dog you know but it's like 
well you have to put gas in the car oops 
it's gonna help us 
talk with these words on the right which 
are going to help instead of hurt so 
it's Sam at samhorn.com and you can even 
put it by your laptop before you fire 
off an email or something like that you 
can review this in advance to make sure 
that you're using words that are going 
to create receptivity instead of 
resentment I love this so much and grab 
Sam's book I think it'll shift you in 
one read of it it's shifted a very 
important conversation I had and I'm 
grateful and if you need to put these if 
you guys need to figure out why you're 
not converting maybe the first date to 
the second date or the second day to the 
third date you might need some help 
sign up on our website 
smartdatingacademy.com we can help you 
across the board to put more love into 
the world and to get more love back to 
convert those dates and to find the lid 
to your pot so and if you haven't filled 
out our podcast listener survey yet 
please do that it's also in the show 
notes we want to keep bringing back 
amazing guests like Sam and most 
importantly the people that you want us 
to bring on to help you to bring more 
love into your life and more life into 
your love so until next week smartdators 
I bid you farewell 
