[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart taters welcome back happy December 
I am as always so excited to be here 
with you and so excited to have this 
incredibly beautiful human on my podcast 
Dr Nita bhushan who is not only an 
amazing human but has been a friend of 
mine for the past decade I think Nita 
and I had 10 different connections and 
one day we had our very first date at 
wait for it a Whole Foods and I was 
riveted by this beautiful young girl who 
has come such an amazingly long way 
since I met her when I met Nita she was 
single she was a thriving business owner 
Dental practices and knew that life was 
calling her in a different direction she 
wanted to pursue something bigger than 
her she wanted to be more well she's 
been through unspeakable tragedy and I'm 
going to have her tell you her story she 
wanted to find love and Nita has become 
a Serial entrepreneur she sold her 
dental practices she is an author she is 
a three-time international best-selling 
author and now a world-renowned 
international Health Advocate she's 
founded the global grit Institute she 
has gotten married to her soul mate she 
has two little kids Nita welcome to the 
Smart dating Academy podcast 
it's so good to be here love oh my gosh 
thank you Bella I'm so happy to have you 
here and guys why did I bring Nita on 
today because last week I talked to you 
guys about becoming psychotically 
optimistic because the holidays can suck 
for a lot of us they can make us feel 
alone and lonely and have us asking God 
why me why am I still alone and all of 
that suck now speaking of suck my friend 
Nita wrote an amazing book called wait 
for it that sucked now what which is 
like the perfect title to Nita's life so 
Nita congratulations on your book let's 
get into this tell us about the suck 
that has happened to you for the last 20 
years of your life and where you are now 
oh my gosh wow okay we're gonna go all 
the way back well let's go let's go 
everybody while you're here and the fire 
that you have walked through girl and 
prevailed and how you're going to teach 
all of my beautiful singles how to help 
embrace the suck we're gonna go in and 
embrace the socks so it actually started 
out funny enough in December so December 
was when I hit my fall and and PR like 
the biggest fall of my life I thought I 
was 
I thought I had this like 
picture-perfect marriage and this 
picture-perfect dream you know home life 
that I had built and December 31st 2011. 
I was brought down to my knees and I was 
looking in the mirror and I finally saw 
myself like finally saw myself and 
finally understood that I was living 
this lie that I was in this toxic 
abusive marriage 
and that I was living my life for 
everybody else 
and despite the fact that I was to the 
outside this cosmetic dentist with this 
incredible practice I was not even 30 at 
the time 
I had thought I had built everything up 
along the side but I looked at the 
mirror for the first time on December 
31st's hearing the crowd and the cheer 
from the outside 
hearing fireworks and for me I'm sobbing 
for the very first time to myself in my 
master bedroom of this five-story home 
and I finally acknowledged and said I'm 
in an abusive relationship I felt like I 
was just mentally torn emotionally 
completely spiritually dead 
and for that first time I got up and I 
had to make moves I literally had to 
shift my life that day would be the last 
day that I would see that life that home 
uh that person 
um why that day Anita what happened that 
day yeah that was the last time I would 
let him hit me in the face and and this 
was going on for you know five years 
uh the marriage was you know only 16 
months but we had been together a total 
of five years and 
yeah that was the day that I would pick 
up and leave to reclaim a life that was 
for me because for the decade proceeding 
this relationship 
I had to go through tremendous loss I I 
recognized that I was hiding so much of 
the shame and guilt of where I came from 
what I had been through 
in the face of this marriage because I 
thought that getting married this 
picture-perfect marriage we had this 
Indian wedding and it was like 
photographed and filmed and all of the 
big things and it was the stream come 
true until it actually wasn't 
and I had to get honest with myself and 
what I was hiding was the fact that I 
didn't allow myself to grieve and to 
grieve the losses of my mom my dad and 
my brother and that happened within a 
five-year period between 
16 16 and 19 in my in my life and so I 
was left at 19 to raise my youngest 
brother who was 14 at the time 
and I thought okay well I want to just 
recreate a family that I lost so 
my coping mechanism in my early 20s and 
really throughout my adolescence when I 
was 16 when my mom was really sick when 
I lost my brother I would hold on to 
these 
relationships because I was so afraid of 
being alone and I know that you know 
this is a perfect podcast to talk about 
it because 
I didn't realize it until finally 
December 31st all I wanted to do was be 
alone and I was faced to be alone for 
the very first time because I took the 
brave steps to leave that circumstance 
and the biggest thing that I was so 
afraid of was 
wow I'm going to be judged I am going to 
be talked about because you know in our 
community lokiakenge what will people 
think right and that was this like 
looming thing in my mind of wow people 
are not going to know that I'm broken 
because I was so ashamed about the 
losses that I'd been through because it 
was such a huge part of my life that I 
thought I could hide and shove 
underneath a rug until the raw got so 
big 
that I couldn't no longer 
avoid it anymore I had to dive in and 
that's when the healing began that's 
when the the party really started that's 
when it got really juicy because that's 
when I really had an invite coming back 
into myself and focusing on pretty much 
you know the the next seven here years 
of those healing healing years to focus 
on 
me 
wow and I hope you guys heard that this 
woman who was a girl lost her mother 
to sickness her brother to an asthma 
attack and her father to cancer in four 
years between 15 and 19. I have an 18 
year old who just called me as Nita and 
I were getting ready to record and my 
heart it's like I I I I'm trembling I 
cannot imagine having a daughter that is 
almost 19 oh my God oh my God the tunnel 
of fire you have walked through and to 
create what you thought you had nobody 
advising you no gurus everybody you 
loved was gone and now you were a 
caretaker and little Nita decides to 
make Mom and Dad proud and marry the 
perfect Indian boy with the perfect life 
and the five-story house and all of the 
things to then realize finally the age 
of 30 that this is all a freaking facade 
and for the first time you're like 
it I'm not gonna keep sweeping it under 
the rug anymore I'm done and you walk 
away and for all of that 
I I so I salute you seems so trite for 
what I'm feeling I don't have the right 
words and 
um and I know you then decided to go on 
your own personal Journey you left the 
marriage you sold your practice you have 
become a coach to help people out of 
their sock and you have articulated the 
road that you have been down and how you 
got out of your stuff and now how you're 
teaching people okay that sucked and you 
certainly have had more suck my friend 
than the majority of us combined into 
five lifetimes so let's talk about let's 
talk about the suck like you said yeah 
it sucks we're all gonna go through 
horrible things when we're human right 
there is going to be suck but 
we all have a choice tell us there's 
chapter in your book called the victim 
mentality oh yeah and I think so many of 
us especially you going through what 
you've been through you can look at your 
life and say God why me haven't I had 
enough haven't you punched me in the 
face enough times when do I get a break 
why me talk to us about the victim 
mentality what it is why it's 
destructive and how the hell we get out 
of it oh gosh 
yeah I mean it was you know 
so recognizing that during that time 
even you know that 
I was a victim of domestic violence 
but I didn't want to really live there I 
was a victim of you know losing my 
family 
and I knew that one of the solid anchors 
that I've always had just remembering my 
parents the mantras that I grew up with 
when my dad would pray for three hours 
every Sunday in his meditation room and 
he would just be chanting and chanting 
108 times he had the Mala beads and we 
would be young little kids running 
around not knowing any better and trying 
to take the Mala beads out of the like 
Puja room and he would go chase us back 
and he wouldn't say anything he would 
just chase us grab his beads go back 
into and he was so dedicated but because 
I had that as like a constant in my life 
I knew that Faith was such a huge part 
of the journey and I was raised my mom 
was Filipino we did you know we did 
Catholic church on Sundays my dad was 
Hindu but he was seek as well you know 
in that part of Punjab he went to both 
of the things so he was like let's bring 
everything into the mix it doesn't 
matter we'll go to everything so for me 
to grow up with such a stronghold on 
spirituality were there times where I 
was so angry because I was like what the 
heck is happening like how could you 
even have faith and I remember vividly 
when I was 16 years old 
and 
um you know people coming to my mom's 
funeral and giving me all of these books 
because really at 16 all you want to do 
is really fit in right you don't want to 
be the one that lost her mom yeah and 
God forbid a year later going through it 
the same time again like immediately A 
year later and on your youngest 
brother's uh 12th birthday and you're 
left with nobody knows what to say we're 
not taught how to you know have these 
difficult conversations or even being 
there for another friend let alone as a 
dating partner like everyone was in 
shock and so but what we did have was we 
had music what we did have was the 
chanting at the mothers and at all of 
these places and so 
when I talk about victim mentality in 
the book 
you know I I want to be very 
um you know very very forthcoming 
because I know that some of you right 
now may have been in an actual victim 
mentality where you were the victim 
where you were the victim legit 
something go yeah painfully going 
through and maybe you're a victim of 
violence sexual abuse maybe there are 
some of those things that you know and I 
want to honor that and I want to respect 
you for it 
and some of us might be living because I 
was that victim but some of us might be 
actually living in the victim mindset in 
that victim mentality where there's a 
story in my book about pre 
who uh she was one of my clients and she 
was she was going on all the dating apps 
she finally found a guy and she got 
ghosted and she went into her victim 
spiral and the spiral of I'm not good 
enough I'm not I'm not worthy enough I'm 
not pretty enough oh look at other 
people it on on this comparisons spiral 
and it's so easy to do that when 
everything around you is going 
wrong and I think it's great to say that 
sucked and to embrace and sit in the 
suck because for me I didn't sit in the 
sock for almost two decades I was 
charting along shoving things under a 
rug stuffing it in the back closet 
because I didn't want to be the one that 
didn't fit in I wanted to fit in I just 
wanted to have some sense of quote 
unquote normalcy 
even though I knew my path was kind of 
not normal by any means 
yet that victim mindset if we are stuck 
in the suck if we think our entire world 
revolves around the one instance or the 
two instances or the three instances 
that we got rejected or got ghosted or 
got burned 
we've got to work on changing that 
mindset and for me it was okay 
there's this reality but then there's 
also a Survivor reality where whoa 
you've survived through something you've 
been through something and now you 
actually have some of the tools to maybe 
take some personal responsibility I 
can't take personal responsibility for 
the losses that I've had but can I take 
personal responsibility for how I am 
going to deal with the healing part of 
that because what I've learned is that 
there are ways to now 
uh integrate some of the hard sucks in 
life to then say all right now what what 
is that action step and I think for so 
many of us especially you know for all 
the singles in the room and I was this 
way too I would go I would Teeter I 
would go between ah man I'm not ready 
for it yet or I don't know my heart's 
gonna just get broken again or you know 
I was celibate for two years after my 
divorce because I was I was afraid and I 
was like trying to do the work and 
saying yes to doing the work but then 
retreating back and saying oh I don't 
know but what I really really needed to 
focus on was healing that little girl in 
me and each of us have a little person 
in herself that at one point was stuck 
in the suck was stuck in the victim 
mentality and she couldn't move forward 
and we have to honor that part now I 
couldn't move forward Into the Now what 
the victor until I acknowledge my 
vulnerability in the okay that really 
sucked I see you I see the little girl 
in you that just wanted love that just 
wanted to recreate a family and that's 
all you knew to have compassion for that 
little girl and now you get to choose so 
you get to choose who enters in your 
life but in order to choose we've got to 
take the risks and we've got to say yes 
to get out of the suck which means and I 
talk about a concept in the book called 
The Bounce factor which I know we'll get 
to but one of the things of the bounce 
factor that I talk about is we have to 
embrace good stress we've got to invite 
ourselves to do some hard things which 
means 
say yes to new experiences say yes to 
for me it was working with the coaches 
and the therapists that would forever 
ever ever change my life and change my 
trajectory I mean it's one of the 
reasons why I went into coaching and 
investing in coaching and even starting 
a coaching company 
because of the experience that I've had 
with you know people like you Bella 
need to tell us something you wrote 
about in your book which I absolutely 
love about the stoics talk about Amor 
Fati 
yes oh wow so I oh gosh you know right 
after my my dad passed away so it was my 
my mom my brother and my dad and I was 
just so I was like I need to get out of 
Chicago I like my soul was yearning for 
an experience and I just needed to like 
I was like I'm done I I can't I need to 
live on for me I couldn't go away to 
college I got into all the colleges 
um I couldn't go away so after my dad 
died it was 
um the summer that I turned 21 and I 
like begged my aunt and my grandmother 
they were like the matriarchs in my 
family my aunt was my dad's sister my 
grandmother was my mom's mother and they 
were the ones kind of like wolf pack 
that that raised or helped raise my 
brother and I and and my aunt my buo was 
like there's no way you're going 
absolutely not and I'm like I need this 
because I'm like I'm going to dental 
school I need all of the things so I 
like made this like this you know this 
thing up around why I needed to be there 
well I ended up going on a study abroad 
trip to Italy and that was like dream 
come true for me because For the First 
Time Ever Getting off that plane in Rome 
in Roma at the you know at the campus 
there they added Loyola campus there in 
in Rome 
and it was like oh my God and I was 
taking you know Italian philosophy and 
basically the first day in my Italian 
philosophy course they're talking about 
the stoics and that was my first kind of 
foray into you know the the term Amor 
Fati which is love of one's fate and it 
was so I mean this couldn't be more 
poignant for my journey because I I I 
was like didn't want to tell people what 
I had been through because everyone was 
introducing themselves you know that's 
always like the weird awkward question 
like oh tell me about you where'd you 
grow up what do your parents do and like 
I hated that question because for me 
 I've gotta share like all right all 
all like I gotta let all the cat out of 
the bag you know right now and then I'm 
gonna be the one that like so I was so 
afraid to share so I would always 
deflect it so I was like my in my like 
quick you know early stage coaching 
skills I would say tell me about you 
tell me more about you so but it was in 
this Italian philosophy class in Rome of 
all places where I fell in love with the 
term Amor Fati and we learned about you 
know Marcus Aurelius who was you know 
one of the Italian great who you know uh 
ruled Italy but he was all about loving 
and the stoics were all about loving 
one's fate no matter what 
and it then had me think everything you 
know comes at its place for a reason 
right I was meant perhaps I was meant to 
go through this and and you know I think 
it's been part of my spiritual 
upbringing as well 
and always thinking that find my parents 
and this was like the Turning Point 
having heard this term and spending this 
time in Italy it was like such a 
cathartic and healing practice for me 
because For the First time ever I wasn't 
having to worry if somebody was going to 
die because guess what the worst had 
already happened 
unfortunately and two I could literally 
spread my wings and I was in this 
foreign country new students nobody knew 
me I could actually 
you know choose to share whatever felt 
right and maybe not choose to share and 
so that's how I became such a great uh 
question asker during these times uh but 
really it all kind of snapped into place 
around the Amor Fati of really loving 
Our Fate no matter what the circumstance 
was and that allowed for the you know 
really the greatest uh the greatest 
healing 
this concept is so important Amore Amor 
Fati f-a-t-i and like Nita said it's 
about loving your fate and it doesn't 
mean it didn't suck and it doesn't mean 
it didn't hurt but it means okay I I 
have you know told you guys many times 
I've been a student of people like 
some of the greatest people that I think 
are on earth and Tony Robbins always 
says can you find the meaning in your 
mass 
right okay that sucked says Dr Nita now 
what is the meaning does it mean there 
wasn't a mess no it means okay now what 
can I do with this I have a choice of 
how I respond 
and in the dating world so many of us 
have been ghosted we've been 
disappointed we've been betrayed we've 
been cheated on we've been hit we've 
been emotionally bruised we've been 
blindsided we've been divorced 
right and 
and 
while nobody would ever say well suck it 
up buttercup it's okay you know what 
here is my story and here's the vat of 
soup that I'm standing in now what what 
can I do what was what's the meaning 
that I can find in these circumstances 
that I'm in at this point and think 
about it for yourself dear listener are 
you that person are you the person 
that's been ghosted maybe you never got 
the love from your parents that you 
wanted and you don't know how to love 
maybe you consider yourself God I've 
never been in love I don't know that 
I've been in love I don't know that 
anybody has ever loved me am I lovable 
and asking yourself a million questions 
could somebody love me the way I yearn 
to be loved without you know riding a 
tractor over my heart again and again 
and knowing the simple fact of the 
matter is yes you can have everything 
but the first step is saying okay here's 
where I am now and now what is the 
lesson here what can I take from this 
how can I move forward tell me if I got 
the concept right oh my gosh absolutely 
such a I mean such a queen of of that 
and I think that you know to add to that 
it's a really embracing the 
vulnerability of the suckiness of that 
moment because it's not like we can 
change Our Fate you know the stoics 
Marcus Aurelia Seneca you know all of 
the greats they they were actually 
anticipating the suck many times over 
and that's really what made them 
so uniquely placed in you know perhaps I 
feel like sometimes you know going too 
overboard where they didn't even allow 
themselves to feel so that's like you 
know step number two is to then allow 
yourself to experience the suck but I 
think Bella to your point you know 
especially when we are dating like I can 
even share for myself yeah for those two 
years I was I was scared I was until I 
got support and and dove into the 
healing and dove into the reasons why so 
with a more fatty we're we're saying 
yeah that really sucked and we can't 
change it we can only make peace with it 
we can try to start integrating it to 
start seeing how does this New 
Perspective that has shifted in my life 
am I going to think all men suck am I 
gonna think all you know because I dated 
and I was married to an Indian man all 
Indian men suck which for a while was my 
story and it actually actually prevented 
me and I'm going to get real with you 
because I love you and I think for your 
listeners you know I think that's only 
fair but that was my story for the 
longest time right we think oh okay I'm 
not gonna date this person or this kind 
of person or or all men with blue eyes 
and we start generalizing why that can't 
be our person or you know from a certain 
race or a certain culture because that 
one bad experience happened but that was 
one bad experience right and I think for 
me it really like I I had to focus on 
myself healing which then took me to 
Bali Indonesia and I made a pledge I 
literally made a pledge to myself and 
this was after having worked with 
coaches and having worked with 
therapists and I did all sorts of 
different healing and uh and this was 
the commitment that I had to myself to 
say okay I'm gonna marry myself I know 
it sounds so cheesy and it sounds so 
lame and it sounds so weird however 
listeners listen up because this was my 
first time that I'm actually saying I 
value me first I see the little girl in 
me that just wanted to feel seen and 
feel hurt and feel loved and I'm gonna 
do that for myself now 
and no matter what I'm going to honor 
who I am in whatever relationship it is 
and that meant that okay well I'm gonna 
take myself on dates I am going to 
you know take care of me how I would 
want my partner to treat me and before 
then I felt like I was trying to wait 
for like Prince Charming to come along 
where I'm like no I actually have to be 
the queen 
the creek the queen charmer of my life 
and it only happened until I had 
somebody else to reflect back with me 
somebody like you so someone you know 
the listeners listening in to reflect 
back and say well what parts of this are 
you willing to let go of and how are you 
willing to show up in relationship 
and so and literally I I journaled I 
have this whole um you know this is 2015 
and so get this it's 2015 
February I met my now husband two months 
later we reconnected two months later 
after I had that you know full uh uh 
Epiphany and and and Reclamation for 
myself this ritual that I had for myself 
um taking care of yourself and finally 
finally taking care of myself 
prioritizing myself and how did you what 
did you do you sold your business like 
tell people what did that yes yes give 
us your specifics so here's here's what 
happened in the in the years that I 
began to fall in love with myself I 
began to date myself I became so 
Unapologetic in how I want to lead my 
life because I was so focused on you on 
being that people pleaser saying yes to 
everybody around me being that martyr 
because I thought okay I learned that 
growing up happiness meant that you have 
to serve other people and your cup is 
last 
but when I started to put my needs first 
when I started to say okay I'm gonna go 
to this Meditation Retreat I'm gonna 
actually work with these coaches or sign 
up for this program or go to this 
Retreat or go to this networking event 
and just say yes to the things that many 
times scare us to the things that many 
times 
we think that okay uh it's it it may or 
may not go in a certain way because we 
need to be certain about things when we 
are okay with the uncertainty we can 
just 
say all right well that sucked now what 
we're not afraid of oh man if I go on 
this date if this doesn't happen then ah 
like what's that going to say about me 
like for a while I just was like 
unattached to all dating so it was like 
all right I'm gonna go and experience 
this person and it's okay if he's not my 
person I'm gonna thank that person for 
showing up in my life but I'm not going 
to take it personally that I'm not good 
at dating or my picker is broken I'm 
just going to 
say all right this is what it is and 
still say yes and not get jaded to the 
whole idea of dating because I think a 
lot of times you know at least in that 
stage of my life I had to say he's 
coming for me he's coming he's he's 
coming and for those who are listening 
they are coming you're doing the work 
and you're just every single person that 
you're meeting is getting you closer and 
closer so when I was getting really 
Unapologetic about that and there's a 
concept in the book that I talk about 
and it's called Uh the fly forward 
framework where you have a fall or a 
breakup or something tragic or crazy or 
big happens where you actually then 
stage two you have to have that ignition 
the fire under the belly the the fact 
that are you going to stay in this 
relationship are you going to go 
somewhere else are you going to stay or 
say no are you going to still be in this 
relationship or leave then we get into 
the rising stage agent for me the rising 
stage meant that I'm going to focus on 
me before I get into the magnify stage 
which is stage four the magnify stage is 
really all right I'm going to keep 
blossoming and guess what I'm saying yes 
to these dates but I'm also letting go 
of what no longer serves me which meant 
that I wanted to do more I wanted to 
invest in other women I was creating my 
own communities I started a non-profit 
and I sold my dental business I sold the 
building that came along with it a few 
years later I moved across country to 
San Francisco because I wanted to learn 
how startup the startup environment 
worked and I was mentoring startup 
Founders and that's you know when Bella 
and I she came to one of my uh you know 
seminars at that time with so many of 
these Founders and I think it's 
when you're exposing yourself to there's 
another concept I talk about in the book 
good stress doing the things that you 
wouldn't normally do leaning into 
discomforting situations if you don't 
normally go to a certain place to find 
people maybe you're opening yourself up 
to it maybe that's not your cup of tea 
but maybe you're saying okay let's see 
what I can learn from this 
that's when the real magic happens 
that's when the Magic in the mess really 
happens to you know to talk about my 
subtitle in the book is because 
then we are allowing ourselves to play 
and we're not getting attached to the 
outcome and so when I met my now husband 
we were in a different part of the world 
we were in Kuala Lumpur Malaysia we then 
a year later uh would meet again at a 
speaking conference in India and I was 
speaking at the same conference that he 
was and I was finishing my first book 
and it was every single time when we met 
it was always in a different country 
and I said yes to the adventure but with 
a caveat and Bella you'd be very proud 
of me because 
I felt like I was retracting back to my 
same patterns and I talk about this in 
the book where when you're at a stage 
stage five is thriving and when you're 
at a stage of where you know that 
all right your heart's been broken 
before and you're still afraid of 
opening yourself up so I was like one 
foot in and one foot out but you know 
you're in the thriving stage so I had to 
you know I have these uh prompts and 
journal prompts in the book throughout 
the book but I had to do what I say in 
the book which was all right I know that 
I am maybe being reserved and cautious 
right now but can I also lean into 
curiosity can I also lean into 
excitement can both of these feelings 
coexist at the same time because I'm 
human and there's still part of me 
that's tender but am I going to lead 
with honesty because guess what I want 
in a partner the very first thing that I 
want is honesty so am I going to be 
honest in conveying that to Ajit which 
was partner at the time well we were we 
were starting to do the dance of dating 
even though I was you know I was gonna I 
thought I was gonna self Sabbath Taj 
again and say no 
you know ah we're both traveling see you 
in the Bahamas in a year since we just 
keep meeting another right like 
countries you know he's traveling I 
don't know we we may not and I just said 
hey you know I'm I'm at the stage of my 
life I had to be honest so I had to go 
first I had to be vulnerable which is 
what I'm sharing is that it is so uh 
it's so fearful because you feel like 
you're gonna wear your heart on your 
sleeve but if you want that person to 
also be that way 
perhaps go first and I had to say hey if 
you're willing to do this dance do you 
wanna I'm gonna be in New York for a 
couple months he's like I'm gonna be in 
San Diego for a few months let's meet in 
the middle and that's when we started to 
do the dance and 
ten cities around the world in a year 
and a half later we had our very first 
ceremony 
wow 
wow amazing amazing amazing and you led 
with honesty and vulnerability right and 
what you got back was exactly that 
and a great husband and two great kids 
and let's Circle back again there's some 
Concepts in your book but I want to make 
sure that we uh don't bounce over no pun 
intended let's talk about you alluded 
very quickly to two things that I want 
to relate to in the dating and 
relationship context let's talk about 
bounce Factor what that is and how we 
can positively affect our bounds factor 
and then we'll talk about flying forward 
and the five steps to doing that and 
dating so tell us about bounce oh yes 
let's bounce 
so 
the bounce Factor so I got you know 
during my the journey I got asked uh to 
speak at several places because of my 
story obviously and I started becoming 
and gaining this uh recognition as like 
the queen of grit the queen of 
resilience and when my first book came 
out and you'll really appreciate this 
spell I was asked to speak at 
um in Palo Alto and Palo Alto for those 
of you listeners who don't know it's 
where the folks from the tech World they 
send their children and uh during that 
time they had lost a few kids in their 
school to suicide and so they had asked 
me to come on to share my story and they 
said can you build resilience without 
going through really adverse 
things in life can you build resilience 
and for those of you who are single and 
trying to find relationships and are so 
you know getting jaded with the whole 
process can you build resiliency without 
having to go through some of these 
things and and that really pegged a 
bigger larger question that what I was 
actually dealing with because I was 
dealing with my own heartbreak and 
losses 
and but it really set the Precedence for 
the bounce Factor because what I have 
garnered now from that time is yeah 
there are four components to your bounce 
factor and how how high you can bounce 
and if you have any bounce at all and 
what actually contributes to it so if 
you feel that you are feeling jaded in 
the dating process here's why well first 
have you actually made peace with your 
upbringing because many times most often 
and this is what I shared with that 
Community as well either were born with 
tiger parents either were born with 
parents who are helicopter parents 
trying to figure everything out for us 
or tiger parents who don't let us do 
anything or maybe you were raised not 
talking back to your elders in certain 
cultures or maybe you were raised by a 
single mom who didn't really want to 
show emotion or a narcissistic mom or uh 
you know an emotionally unavailable 
father there are all of these 
opportunities that we can heal but it 
actually gets passed on to us and then 
we carry this on in the way that we 
relate in our relationships and then we 
go on and we attract a partner who we 
think should fix the real the the the 
the parts of us that we haven't healed 
like the broken relationship with our 
dad or the fact that our mom was never 
there and we've we've been longing so we 
have this mom wound or this Dad wound 
that we have not yet healed and it shows 
up in our upbringing so that's the first 
piece the second piece is the ability to 
increase our good stress so the ability 
to lean into whether it's difficult 
conversations whether it's going first 
right that vulnerability that I just 
shared and if you're so used to people 
reading your mind uh like how we would 
love I love we would love that to happen 
but in order to really get clear with 
our desires and what we want we have to 
voice them and that means we have to 
practice saying I would really like if 
blank but if you're a people people 
pleaser or if you are the Martyr or if 
you want people to like read your mind 
that means that you have no bounce 
because you're not willing to put 
yourself under good stress that's your 
current environment that's step two 
current environment good stress step 
three is your emotional capacity to feel 
your emotional capacity to feel the 
feels which means 
okay when you're really upset are you 
able to feel where you are getting upset 
actually feel it in your gut feel it in 
your chest feel it in your head like 
where do you normally feel that if you 
are angry or disappointed are you able 
to fully experience it and embody it or 
are you one that's just like all right 
I'm gonna just brush it off and what's 
next and let me just go on dopamine hit 
because right I'm gonna go for a run 
I'll be back just go for a run 
vintage I'm gonna go for a run I'll be 
back go for a run too far away from it 
is it Rose yet five o'clock let me let 
me do that you know and that was me for 
a very long time right I would go and 
and dance my sorrows out at an as an 
early you know early 30s go to the bars 
Thursday night you know you know where I 
would be heading up in Chicago Thursday 
Friday Saturday that was what I was 
doing 
and all of a sudden Monday again going 
to extreme sports so I would train for 
triathlons I would train for a hundred 
mile bike rides so that that was you 
know in many ways my release but I 
didn't really allow myself to sit in 
that sock so your emotional capacity to 
feel and then finally four is your 
radical self-awareness your radical 
self-awareness and when I mean radical 
self-awareness your RSA that is your 
ability to say oof 
that person love bomber nah no thanks no 
thanks uh because I know the value that 
I bring to the table or to really assess 
okay is this right for me and maybe the 
people that I maybe I have a pattern 
here maybe maybe I keep saying yes to 
these people because I haven't yet 
healed part of my upbringing that's why 
these types of people are 
getting attracted to me or getting 
magnetized towards me and I'm accepting 
them yes and and not accepting them into 
your reality and actually saying no 
that's building your radical 
self-awareness when it comes to dating 
and so uh so all of these four 
components comprise your ability to 
bounce when things get rough right and 
bounce guys that means you hit the 
ground but you have levity you have 
momentum and you can recover and land on 
your feet again and so much of this is 
exactly what 
having coaches around you helps you to 
do because sometimes you can't see your 
own patterns sometimes you don't know 
you're so in the suck that you're just 
like I'm lonely I'm gonna take the next 
person that comes to me it's better than 
being alone and then it's same dude 
different face decade over decade right 
and that is not radical self-awareness 
either right that is radical you know 
self-sabotage to some extent and it's 
not looking at me what am I doing I've 
told you guys the story of my story on 
this podcast so many times the common 
denominator in all of my messes was this 
five foot three little being right I 
accepted this stuff I accepted the red 
flaggy people I accepted the bad 
behavior right and once you look at 
yourself and say I am where I am because 
of the choices I've made to some extent 
or the hand that was dealt to me but now 
I can choose 
Amor Fati I can choose to find the 
meaning in my mess and I can choose a 
better way right and all of these things 
and I love 
understanding your upbringing your 
upbringing is everything with regards to 
you guys that have worked with us you 
know how much we talk about fixing your 
picker and attachment and a couple of 
weeks ago I had somebody come on the 
podcast who talked about family 
constellation therapy and I know that 
you talk about generational trauma Anita 
and how it comes down from our great 
grandparents to our grandparents to our 
parents to us so it's like one of my 
favorites 
we are the trauma of our families living 
breathing nature nurture who's 
going to help us through this right and 
the good news is there are so many ways 
and resources to help you through this 
and we are all the sum total of our 
generational traumas Nita and I both 
have parents that were immigrants that's 
a massive trauma in and of itself and 
then to be the children of immigrants to 
have loss to move so many times I went 
to eight different schools before I 
graduated high school right because this 
is immigrants you move you move you move 
and every time you have to reinvent 
yourself right and okay what did that 
what did that make me do it made me 
realize okay 
I can talk to anybody wherever I go 
right I can make friends with somebody 
over Zoom because I had to do this year 
over year over year every other year 
changing schools so 
um looking at those things and being 
self-aware I suck at those I'm good at 
this so I'm going to get better at some 
of these things so everything Nita is 
saying you guys is so amazing and her 
book does such a great job at talking 
about this and let's talk about now that 
we know how to bounce let's talk about 
how do we fly forward Nita what's our 
five-step process as as single people or 
maybe as people like you and me in 
long-term relationships right maybe 
we've got long-term friendships we've 
got in-laws how do we fly forward 
through the sock yes okay yes so flying 
forward starts out with recognizing you 
had a fall or recognizing step one stage 
one that you had a fall and stage two 
that there is that ignition the ignite 
that something has to change either you 
have to have a difficult conversation or 
you have to you're saying maybe you're 
saying yes to yourself in this stage and 
you're not spiraling into victim 
mentality anymore you're going into a 
thriver's mindset because you know ah 
okay that's going into my old ways of 
how I used to do things and when we get 
into that stage three which is rising 
now Rising when it comes into the dating 
world the dating context or even in our 
relationships when we're Rising we're 
acting from a place of curiosity we're 
acting from a place of oh I'm not going 
to judge him or her or they or whatever 
we're just going to act like every day 
is a new day in relationship every day I 
am committed to rediscovering who I am 
in a relationship and who my partner is 
that we're not fixated on what they did 
yesterday or the dishes or what have you 
or maybe their past that we're going 
forward we're moving forward we're 
flying forward and every day is a new 
day too 
lay in that container and then when we 
get into the magnify stage the magnify 
stage is really it's not about you 
anymore it's not about 
what you've been through now it's about 
the relationship that you want to grow 
with your partner Your Love Your your 
long lasting love relationship and 
whether it is a new relationship or 
rekindling what you already have maybe 
it's setting things on the calendar like 
for Ajit and I now in this stage of our 
relationship with having Littles we have 
date night set and actually three out of 
the four times in the month because we 
know we have an intention to set that 
that's going to happen 75 of the time 
which is great and if it happens the 
fourth time great you know with life you 
know it's not like a zero-sum game it's 
not like black or white we have to have 
some flow we have to have some Grace and 
so if we can do it you know eighty 
percent of the time great if it happens 
50 of the time great but we know that 
it's a standard on our calendar and 
I'm not going to you know get mad at him 
if it's like okay he's like babe 
something happens but it is the thing is 
is it's in our intention and it's 
blocked on the calendar so that's one of 
the ways and if you are actually dating 
yourself right now you can block time in 
your calendar when you're in the magnify 
stage to say all right this is that time 
for me this is that solo time for me for 
that bath time that walk that time to 
reflect for me and nobody else that's 
when you're in the magnify stage when 
you know that all right well there could 
be some times where I still feel like I 
don't know I'm not ready for this 
long-term commitment or I'm going to 
have these weird thoughts in my head and 
think is this relationship going to last 
but you now know how to regulate 
yourself you now know with the tools 
that I have in my book to help you 
combat some of these feelings that we 
have which are absolutely normal because 
we are human but then we get into the 
thriving stage and the thriving stages 
it's no longer a sense that we're we're 
going to like we're not afraid of 
falling again because we know that at 
this stage we're actually flourishing we 
know that at this stage that if we have 
a fight it doesn't mean it's the end of 
the world fighting is actually a good 
thing that means repair reconciliation 
and in a really good healthy 
relationship we want to know how we 
fight because the repair 
uh it actually invites more ways to 
build a stronger bridge in a bond and I 
know that Bella you talk a lot about 
this in strong relationships but the way 
that we fight tells us everything and 
that's the juicy part because the repair 
is so good it actually brings up the 
best and that's where we know we're in 
thriving because we know we're not going 
to say ah a fight means that oh no this 
isn't going to last a fight just means 
okay how can we actually twist the 
puzzle pieces so it fits differently so 
that at this stage in our lives 
we're actually going to be a different 
couple or at this stage of our 
relationship whether it's two months in 
three months and six months in I might 
have to ask a different question to get 
to know her or him a little bit better 
and that's actually beautiful 
in in our house and even in my extended 
family I mean I've got a husband two 
teenagers I have a brother a 
sister-in-law parents and we say 
conflict is nothing to be feared you're 
gentle with your words because your 
words are knives and knives leave scars 
when we put them on the skin but look at 
conflict as a way to say I need this and 
you need this how do we get to a better 
place so never view conflict when you 
come from a place of love and saying you 
look at your relationship like you would 
rock climbing with every conflict comes 
a higher step up towards the peak of a 
solid happy relationship that's how you 
thrive so let me go back to Let's 
Pretend We're going into Peak dating 
season right now and lots of our 
listeners you know maybe they've been 
broken up with maybe they're like oh I 
hate online dating I'm so jaded like do 
I have to to do this again because Bell 
is constantly saying January it's going 
to be the busiest online dating date of 
the year if we want to fly forward for 
Peak dating season take a single person 
through the five steps maybe it's a 
jaded dater a man or a woman so now 
we've we're falling we're on the ground 
we're like dating sucks I hate the apps 
there's no good people out there there's 
nobody out there for me I suck I'm too 
old I'm too damaged I'm too heavy all of 
that stuff we're on the ground is that 
falling like where that is falling that 
is that is you're in the falling stage 
yep that's falling stage absolutely 
okay so that's falling so now we're on 
the ground so for all of you if you can 
listen to me who's on the ground who's 
following me me me right okay 
everybody's on the ground now we've 
Fallen now what's the next step Nita how 
do we ignite ourselves and fly forward 
it's Peak dating season I want to ignite 
every single one of you right now to put 
a spark under your booty and get it 
going and ignite you to do something how 
do we do that how do we ignite ourselves 
if you don't have Bella Gandhi and Smart 
dating Academy nipping at your little 
heels to get up and ready for for Peak 
dating season how does one ignite 
themselves now you're on the ground 
you've Fallen yeah you're falling you're 
asking a different question you're 
probably saying I need help I need help 
and I need I need help is the first step 
I don't want to do what I've already 
done or I've been doing because I'm 
meant for more that's when you are spark 
talking The Light Within you because 
before you probably Saw The Light it was 
trying to spark but you kept going back 
into that circle now you're igniting and 
you're asking a different question 
you're saying I'm not good at this I'm 
not that good at this I keep hearing 
what Bella has to say maybe it's time I 
I work with her I work with somebody I 
actually say yes to a different part of 
myself that's yearning for more because 
I know I meant for more that's the first 
question to acknowledge that there is 
something better there is that next 
potential that next level of potential 
in you to do something radically 
different that you've never done before 
for me it was leaving my marriage for me 
it was saying yes to a brand new life 
for me it was 
for saying no more to Dentistry for you 
it might just be getting support 
saying maybe saying yes to somebody that 
you wouldn't normally date because you 
probably are like actually all right 
I've dated 
these types of people for a really long 
time I'm gonna say yes to this person 
that person is trying to set me up with 
somebody all right I'm gonna say yes 
because what's the worst that could 
happen you actually have a really good 
conversation 
I love that and then what's next 
and then when we get into igniting so 
we're actually developing a new reality 
for ourselves we're Rising so think 
about every time you are saying yes to 
something that is scary to something 
that is so completely out of your 
comfort level that you're kind of like 
oh okay I'm actually developing this 
level of confidence in myself I'm 
actually kind of liking dating people 
that I wouldn't normally have said yes 
to because you're finding that Amor Fati 
you're saying all right so C'est La Vie 
this is it we're seizing the moment as 
well and when we're Rising we're 
actually developing a new skill of 
putting ourselves out there we're 
actually developing a new skill of 
probably practicing our needs stating 
our needs I would love it if you do this 
I know we're not going to talk about you 
know uh the sexual desires and things 
like that but what if you lean into that 
right yeah I would love it if and just 
communicate so that's one way an example 
of rising because you're building this 
muscle that's kind of a little weak you 
know that emotional Flex muscle that's a 
little bit weak but that's what we do in 
the rising so that when we get into the 
magnify stage 
we've got we've got an emotional 
six-pack or whatever we want to call it 
we've got that emotional strength to say 
all right if this relationship ends or 
if it doesn't work out I'm not going to 
go all the way back to a fall 
for sure and and we can then from there 
start perhaps maybe sharing our dating 
woes with friends and not being ashamed 
of it and actually proudly saying hey 
I'm single for this season 
and one being okay with that and that's 
that's the point of then getting into 
that thriving mindset where we're not so 
kicked off of our heels into a fall or 
the fall is not as hard as it used to be 
that's right I love that I love that so 
much and and what I can tell you guys 
too about how Nita's process you know 
when talking about flying forward 
dovetails right into the dating process 
I can give you some steps to take right 
if you've Fallen right I've got a bad 
picker I've never been in love I've 
never had a good relationship whatever 
this suck has been that you've been in 
let this be the time that you are 
ignited and become optimistic and tell 
yourself you know what 
love will come to me it's a when it's 
not an if and part of my ignition means 
I need to change some things up 
to find this person 
and maybe I need some help maybe I'm 
going to take a course maybe I'm going 
to get a coach maybe I'm going to call 
Bella maybe I'm going to get Nita's book 
whatever it is you're now igniting and 
then you start to rise from my 
perspective you know who your high GHQ 
guy is for women that are looking for 
men high in good husband qualities 
that's our process you are clear you 
stop the madness of dating the next 
narcissist the next avoidant you're 
looking for someone who's going to take 
the knot out of your stomach not give 
you butterflies this person that's going 
to feel like the Healthy Home that the 
little you has always wanted right and 
then you're gonna rise because you have 
a dating funnel you have 
a profile that's actually attracting 
people because you are beautiful and you 
are putting yourself out there as This 
Magnificent being that you are not with 
these janky old iPhone photos that 
you've had sitting around in your iPhone 
or your Android for four years because 
you're just too lazy or reticent to 
change anything up and you don't want to 
invest right and then when you start to 
do these things you start to magnify 
magnifying is 
so much goodness starts to come into 
your dating life you have more people 
that you're dating you don't settle you 
are speaking your truth you are dating 
from a place of authenticity you're 
getting rid of the red flaggers you're 
only letting good people in for repeat 
dates and that's how your dating life 
starts to thrive and when you are dating 
and you're having fun and you're open to 
the possibilities guess what starts to 
happen then 
the lid to your pot can arrive for you 
and suddenly you're like holy this 
was worth it all and this was the 
meaning in my mess I changed things up 
and now I've never been happier I can't 
believe it I would go to 10 different 
cities to be with my soul mate forget 
about dating across zip codes listen to 
what Nita did with her dating life right 
I'm not dating an Indian guy guess who 
she's married to an Indian guy right I 
mean go from India from India no bus 
from the Homeland okay not an Indian 
like she and I that are basically like 
we're fully Americanized with Indian 
heritages right and so so Never Say 
Never exactly never ever say never you 
guys know the story of Andy and me 
dating we were best friends for three 
years we were friends for six years 
before that and my dad would be like how 
do you 
it's like a girl it's not like spending 
time with a guy we're now married for 25 
years and have two teenagers Never Say 
Never but you have to look in the mirror 
you have to embrace the sock and you 
have to say now what right how am I 
going to make how am I gonna find 
the meaning in my mess and love my 
circumstances and get out of the victim 
mentality and take steps neither you are 
the living breathing manifestation for 
all that is beautiful I'm so proud of 
you you have grown so much since the 
first day I laid eyes on your beautiful 
face at Whole Foods and to think that 
you're here being interviewed on my 
podcast because you wrote an amazing 
book is such a testament to you thank 
you for sharing your story and for 
sharing your methodologies with us for 
your book and guys I'm going to put a 
link to buy Nita's book in our show 
notes and you are amazing I just a 
podcast episode dropped on Nita's 
podcast called The Brave table with me 
last week so make sure you go in and you 
listen to that as well so fun and 
um I adore you thank you for teaching us 
about the suck the bounce flying forward 
for sharing your story and for helping 
inspire all of us to bounce a little 
higher this peak dating season oh my 
gosh you wrapped it in the most 
beautiful bow I've ever heard anybody 
you're just so good you are such a gift 
and I'm so glad your listeners get to 
hear you week on a week basis I loved 
this episode so much thanks for having 
me love I love you 
and guys 
for Peak dating season if that didn't 
Inspire the pants off of you to change 
some stuff in your dating life I don't 
know what will if you're done with the 
suck please 
send an email to our website go to 
smartdatingacademy.com it's the perfect 
time of year 
to fly forward you guys it's your time 
to ignite and rise and Thrive the 
busiest online dating day of the year is 
January 8th 2023 look at yourself get 
out of your suck and start to fly 
forward sign up for a consultation with 
us get yourself a fairy godmother of 
dating because I know that it will make 
the biggest difference in your life that 
you've ever had until next week I send 
you a big hug a giant kiss and lots of 
love and light 
