[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love I couldn't be 
more excited to introduce my friend this 
rock star superstar beautiful peaceful 
ascetic human being Arielle Ford Arielle 
it's so great to see you oh Bella I 
can't wait till we can go to dinner 
again Zoom is okay but we could have so 
much more fun in person and we did so I 
know you guys are all going to be 
jealous thinking God you got to have 
dinner with Arielle Ford I did and we 
went to my favorite restaurant called 
Summer House Santa Monica and I the 
minutes turned into hours and it was 
just so fun and yes yes yes to a second 
live date Miss food absolutely okay I 
don't need to give you an introduction 
because everybody knows who you are 
Arielle is an amazing best-selling 
author speaker relationship expert I 
consider her a mentor a friend someone 
who's been so generous and good and 
today we want to be generous and just 
talk all about love you guys we're going 
to talk about what like finding love 
keeping love so let's just hop into this 
Arielle 
tell me and I know this is a big 
question it's a giant question it's a 
question that's been pondered for 
Millennia by the wisest Minds on the 
planet what 
in your definition What is love 
well that is the big question and you 
know most people at least the women 
single women I come in contact with 
think that love is a feeling 
love is that being swept away feeling of 
being in love 
and what that experience is is Nature's 
greatest drug high it's your brain on 
drugs it's your brain cascading 
oxytocin and dopamine and adrenaline and 
lots of other hormones I can't even 
describe 
but it isn't love right it's this great 
feeling it's Nature's trick to get us to 
bond and procreate procreate and keep 
the species going and it doesn't last 
it's good for it's got a shelf life of 
six months to three years and then it's 
pretty much game over 
and in the process of finding love and 
keeping love the most important thing to 
really begin to understand 
is that love is not a feeling love is a 
behavior 
love is a choice love is an action love 
is a decision love is a way of being and 
even if you end up with the most perfect 
soulmate in the universe 
there are days when you're going to hate 
them 
and it doesn't mean that you don't love 
them 
so coming to the understanding that real 
mature adult love is behavior is 
critical to the success of happening a 
lot you know having a long-term happy 
committed partnership 
so that's sort of the big picture of 
what love is oh I couldn't agree with 
you more and you brought back to mind 
when you were saying love is a decision 
I remember being 21 years old in the 
middle of a toxic quote-unquote love 
build chemistry filled anxiety-filled 
butterfly filled roller coaster of a 
relationship and my best friend 
at the University of Illinois her name 
is Karen maybe she's listening she 
handed me a book called The World lost 
traveled 
and in that book it said exactly what 
you're saying and those words changed my 
life love is not a feeling it is a 
decision it is not a noun it is a verb 
right and I thought oh my gosh and that 
started my quest to understand what is 
love how can I love how can I love 
better and who would be worthy of this 
kind of love and a year later I use that 
as part of my process to find Andy and 
we met we met in college but I didn't 
realize he was right under my nose for 
so many years and making that decision 
to say this is a great human being 
helped the chemistry to develop and May 
17th we'll be celebrating our 25-year 
wedding anniversary so you guys listen 
to what This Love Guru Arielle is saying 
love is an action it is a decision it is 
a behavior it is not a feeling that 
feeling that Hollywood and Bollywood and 
Harlequin and social media as spouses to 
us said and if your picker's broken and 
if this is the stuff you're doing it's 
not necessarily your fault this is what 
we're told there should be love at first 
sight instant chemistry and she's 
telling you that is Nature's Way of 
tricking us into attachments yeah 
totally totally and I so wish I had 
understood this earlier and I wouldn't 
have suffered all the stress and anxiety 
and heartbreak and Desperation that I 
went through earlier but you just said 
something that triggered something for 
me you said love at first sight 
now love at first sight is a myth I 
think most thinking people understand 
this however I have something that I 
call Love Before First Sight ooh what is 
that or First Sight Okay so 
in quantum physics there are a couple of 
things that 
most people agree upon the first one is 
that there is no time there's no past 
and there's no future there's only this 
now moment and also in Quantum science 
we know that we all live in a field we 
all live in this integrative field where 
we're already connected to everything 
and everybody and there's different 
words for this they even sometimes call 
it the butterfly effect you know if a 
butterfly flaps it swings in the Amazon 
it has Ripple effects in North America 
that sort of thing so with love before 
first sight I invented for myself a 
thing that I call the golden cord 
feelingization and it's something I give 
away for free on my website and what 
this is It's a closed-eyed process where 
I take you from your head to your heart 
and we go deep into our heart and we 
focus on feelings of love and 
appreciation and gratitude and we get 
into the scientific state known as heart 
coherence and when we're in heart 
coherence our electromagnetic field 
which is measurable is actually going 
out 25 feet beyond our body 
so wow what I ask you to do in this 
golden court feelingization is we drop 
into our heart we go into a state of 
heart coherence and then using our 
imagination we see a golden cord of 
loving light coming from our heart going 
into the field and Into the Heart of our 
beloved now we don't know his or her 
name we don't know how or when or where 
we're going to meet them in 3D world but 
on this unseen plane in the field we 
connect with our golden cord into their 
heart and we begin a conversation with 
them 
in our mind we begin this conversation 
I'm open willing and available for you 
to find me for us to find each other 
and we start the relationship we have 
loved before First Sight and it's a 
daily practice it only takes eight 
minutes but you start by talking to them 
so that when you do finally meet in the 
real world there's already a connection 
established 
golden cord realization 
it's just a play on the word 
visualization because we all know how to 
visualize but manifestation happens in 
the heart not the head so on my website 
it's soulmatesecret.com there's a tab 
called free stuff just go to free stuff 
and Hunt around and you'll find the 
golden chord feelingization it's there 
it's free and you don't have to be in 
the state of wanting and waiting for 
love because there is no deficit of love 
in the world although there's lots of 
women running around going I got no love 
I got no love you know I got proof I got 
no love I got no dates and it's not true 
we all have more than enough love 
already and one of the fastest ways to 
really know that as your truth is to 
have another daily practice that um that 
I call the love gratitude practice where 
you spend a few moments with your eyes 
closed and then you see in your mind's 
eye all the people that you already know 
love you your parents your siblings your 
neighbors your co-workers your cats your 
dogs and you just give a little 
miniature prayer of gratitude mom loves 
me dad loves me sister loves me best 
friend loves me and you fill yourself up 
with all this love that you already have 
and then you're not running around like 
lunatic with a love deficit thing going 
on because you've now filled yourself up 
with all the abundance of love you 
already have 
I love that so much and that gets back 
to this love is not a feeling when we 
say I have a deficit of love I don't 
have anxiety I don't have butterflies 
I'm not feeling the power of lust at 
this moment we have all of the love that 
we need and we love ourselves that's 
amazing 
um yeah you're so right I love that 
practice I'm gonna start doing that that 
is really I know I'm doing a lot of time 
I especially do it when I'm in the 
bathtub you know I just I'll just be 
relaxing in the bathtub just allowing 
myself to call in all the love that I 
have whether it's on this planet 
you know or in in the in the ethers 
wherever it is because even though our 
ancestors are out of body they still 
love us you know and if you're single 
you can call on them to help you bring 
in your beloved soulmate life partner 
because they're you know they're hanging 
out there they want to make you happy 
but you have to invite them so if you're 
going to invite them make sure they have 
good taste all right you don't want a 
person who had abusive relationships but 
you have help on the other side as well 
Arielle tell me speaking of bringing 
your soulmate into your life how did you 
meet your amazing soulmate Brian tell 
the story because this is one of the 
best stories I've heard well I woke up 
one morning at the age of 43 and I was 
lying in my bed with my eyes closed and 
I was feeling around the bed in search 
of my 25 pound cat who wasn't there 
and all I felt was this empty expanse of 
bed and while I felt how empty the bed 
was I had this thought was oh [ __ ] I 
forgot to get married 
and I started thinking how is it 
possible I'm 43 I live in Beverly Hills 
I have a successful business I have a 
million friends I have this incredible 
life and yet I'm single what's wrong 
with this picture and I quickly realized 
a couple of things one all my time and 
energy was being spent on building my 
career 
and two I had never really placed an 
order with the universe of what I wanted 
my soulmate to be I had a long list of 
what I didn't want them to be but I had 
no Clarity on what the heart traits and 
qualities were that my soul was most 
calling for 
and so I did a couple of things I got 
out of bed I made a list it was nine 
pages long nine nine pages of every 
prayer process and ritual I had ever 
done to manifest my career and then I 
started thinking about like you know how 
do I most want to feel when I'm with 
this person not like how tall is he or 
how much money does he have how do I 
want to feel and a couple of things 
became very clear to me I knew at that 
point that the most important quality my 
soulmate needed to have was generosity 
not with his wallet I was making plenty 
of money I needed someone who was going 
to be generous with their love time 
affection and attention 
I knew that my soul needed somebody for 
whom I would be the center of their 
Universe because my history was I was 
always going after the captain of the 
universe types the people who were even 
more ambitious than I was and those guys 
don't have any time or energy to give 
anything there's you know most of them 
are narcissists they're all about what's 
in it for me and even though I wanted 
somebody who was successful and 
accomplished I also wanted somebody who 
would you know basically put me on a 
pedestal and worship me I wanted to be 
worshiped so 
that was an important thing to have and 
then I made a soulmate wish list which 
was a ridiculous 48 items long 
the 46 of the 48 uh but it's still wow 
it was still too long and then I just 
started doing this practice the love 
before first sight I decided that he 
wasn't missing I knew that the my desire 
to be partnered came out of some 
knowingness that I was meant to be 
partnered it was just a matter of 
becoming visible and connected to my 
partner he was not missing but I was 
missing from the picture I needed to 
show up and call him in so every single 
day at sunset 
I had a love altar I would sit in front 
of my love altar I would put on these um 
chants these nuns doing these 
interesting chants that I like listening 
to and then I would use my imagination 
and I would talk to my soulmate and I 
didn't know his name 
and then sometime later I couldn't tell 
you exactly how long it took because I 
wasn't planning on writing a book about 
it back then but I'm guessing somewhere 
nine months to a year through a series 
of crazy synchronicities I ended up at a 
business meeting and there was Brian and 
the moment I saw him I had this sort of 
knowingness that my life was about to 
change the moment he saw me he freaked 
out because he had seen my face and his 
dreams for weeks leading up to our 
meeting and so that's the the really 
really short version of how we met but 
just to add one more thing to it we got 
engaged three weeks after we met but we 
didn't get married for another year 
because I'm a student of Dr Pat Allen 
who always drilled it into us that you 
have to know somebody for a full year 
before you commit your life to them so 
we were engaged quickly and then a year 
later we ended up having three weddings 
and our 24th anniversary is next month 
oh my gosh we're in a similar trajectory 
I love that 24 and 25. what a beautiful 
story and he had seen your face in his 
dream so you were both doing and maybe 
you didn't call it this then but you're 
golden cord like yeah yeah I didn't call 
it that for a long time I just I just 
want I believe that we have that 
recognition because we'd already been in 
a relationship on the other planes for a 
long time there was already that 
connection there 
wow and if any of you haven't if you 
have not seen arielle's husband he's 
quite a lovely human being I have yet to 
meet him but he certainly is very hunky 
in all of his friends yes he is well 
he's you know he's really interesting 
because I call him my uh 
my heart chakra on legs 
because it's his belief that his purpose 
on Earth is to make sure that everybody 
who comes in contact with him has the 
experience of being loved 
so if somebody asked me one day who's 
your Guru and I started thinking about 
it I was like well Brian's my Guru I 
want to be more like him because that I 
do not wake up in the morning thinking 
about how can I make people feel loved 
those are not my first thoughts but 
they're Brian's first thoughts so I sort 
of get the the halo effect of his loving 
nature well tell us what's on your 
coffee mug 
so my coffee mug 
says on the back I'm mostly peace love 
and light and a little go [ __ ] yourself 
okay 
description of me you know a mic drop 
right there Mike Mike dropped so 
um let me let me ask you this do you 
think how many soul mates do you think 
we can have in a lifetime 
uh I think the numbers totally unlimited 
yeah but that also comes from what my 
definition is I believe a soulmate is 
first and foremost somebody you can 
completely be yourself with somebody 
with whom you share unconditional love 
and when you look into their eyes you 
have the experience of being home so the 
truth is we already have dozens hundreds 
or thousands of soul mates and you know 
we get to choose a romantic soulmate to 
be our life partner and there is more 
than just one of those possibilities 
this whole mashugana thing we each only 
get one big love in a lifetime it's just 
a big fat lie it is not true there's no 
shortage of love at all 
but there is a shortage of though is 
women choosing a life partner based on 
their feelings okay that Beatles song 
All You Need Is Love 
not you love is an important piece of it 
but in order to have a happy sustainable 
long-term committed partnership you need 
to be married to your best friend you 
need to have compatibility and 
connection and good communication and 
most importantly you have to have a 
shared vision for the future you have to 
be in agreement on a bunch of stuff 
because as I said earlier there will be 
days when those loving feelings are not 
there and they'll be replaced with some 
really ugly negative feelings and you 
have to choose to love them anyway or as 
uh Dr Laurel and said oh my God I Dr 
Laura and I are like so far apart 
politically but I love listening to her 
and one day she was giving this caller 
so much grief and she's the woman was 
complaining about something her husband 
was doing and Dr Laurie says to her I 
want you to imagine that you're in a 
court of law you're the defense attorney 
and your husband is the defendant and 
you now have to convince the judge and 
the jury of their innocence and explain 
their behavior go and I thought how 
brilliant is that imagine if you were 
going to be your partner's defense 
attorney and you had to get in there and 
really understand you know why they're 
acting out the way they are why they're 
behaving and of course you know their 
history you can probably figure it out 
you know you inadvertently press some 
button and they'll you know their hair 
is on fire be their defense attorney be 
their best friend and choose someone for 
God's sakes choose someone who's going 
to take a bullet for you and be your 
best friend 
100 it's funny you know this gets back 
to I always say choose an elevator 
person right and this I know we've 
talked about this on the show before and 
this comes off of my October Ted talk 
about how we especially women in the 
case study I talked about and and I I 
made a joke and it wasn't even a joke I 
opened up the Ted Talk I said I work 
with you know I've worked with thousands 
of people to help them find love and 
what do you think the number one thing 
that every woman says to me when I say 
tell me about your dream guy what is he 
and the answer ubiquitously is tall he's 
taller than me ideally he's over six 
feet if you could see Arielle right now 
oh my God in her hands right and and 
here's the thing ladies gentlemen if 
you're listening to this understand if 
you've been doing this stuff and you're 
what I call your picker if your 
relationship picker is broken it's kind 
of not your fault right because we're 
dating from our caveman brains we're 
looking for someone who's you know the 
big Burly caveman that can protect the 
Village from Marauders and hunt down the 
Buffalo and bring the big buffalo home 
and and so when you look at and for men 
it's the same way for men that are 
looking for women I want someone younger 
than me who's hourglass shape why 
because until the year 1900 we were 
living until we were 30 years old so if 
you were younger than me kind of nubile 
looking had good hips I was caveman 
Bella was kind of like you know you look 
like you could probably deliver eight 
kids six of them are probably gonna die 
but you know let's have a go at this 
right even before we had language so 
when people tell me well I can't choose 
who I'm attracted to yes you can yes you 
can yes you can there's a reason why the 
divorce rate in India is only 10 percent 
right arranged marriage is still a thing 
there's something to be said for having 
the parents be able to select somebody 
that has the same background and culture 
and values and then the chemistry Grows 
Right but if you're choosing based on 
the butterflies you're screwed you're 
totally screwed I can't tell you how 
many people who have great sex every 
night get divorced right great sex is no 
indicator of a long-term relationship 
right but knowing that somebody shares 
your values is going to be there to hold 
your hand on the good times and the bad 
times who actually wants to be your 
cheerleader you know there's there's 
scientific proof now that the people who 
live the longest happiest lives are 
married to their best friends 
[Music] 
Harvard did a 75-year study on this it 
wasn't the richest men that lived the 
longest it wasn't you know the most 
athletic it wasn't the tallest it was 
the ones with the best relationships 
yeah did you know Bella that that single 
and divorced men die seven years earlier 
than married men 
amazing amazing it probably hopefully 
happily married men badly married men 
but even the badly married men still 
have somebody looking 
they still have companionship 
yeah you're you're right and about the 
arranged marriage thing you've got I 
don't think I've ever shared this before 
in you know on this show my parents met 
on a Sunday Sunday April 20th they were 
engaged Thursday April 24th and they 
were married 72 hours later Pat Allen 
would not have any of this they were 
married 72 hours later and they'll be 
married 53 years has it been easy hell 
no they got married they emigrated they 
didn't know each other they're now U.S 
citizens and but in India what they say 
it's it's commitment first then love yes 
you will thought my mom used to tell my 
high school friends my mom was probably 
a dating coach without even knowing it 
she said girls let me tell you something 
and she was talking about spending time 
with bad guys that weren't worth our 
time if you live with a toad long enough 
you will learn to love that toad 
basically like God and so Renu became 
famous about if you live with the child 
long enough you're going to learn to 
love that tone everyone's like oh my God 
he's a child get out of the relationship 
so so there's there's a lot of history 
and there's a lot of sage wisdom in Old 
cultures the Jewish culture the Indian 
culture so many of our cultures but yes 
it is and we have so much of this stuff 
the other way around and I hope that you 
guys I hope that you listening to this 
whether you're walking to work or you're 
driving or you're brushing your teeth 
that this is setting in with you I 
married my best friend my best friend 
who had been my best friend for six 
years and I dated 
a bunch of people that you know some 
were good guys some were toads for sure 
this is probably why my mom was 
lecturing all of us on toads and 
ultimately I'll tell you what at the end 
of the day he will say this as the man 
what carries this relationship through 
is this deeply rooted friendship that we 
have with each other because we have a 
shared history we have shared values we 
want the same things for our lives when 
we differ with each other which is often 
on a daily basis we know nobody's going 
to throw the microwave at the other 
person nobody's going to Screech out of 
the driveway and come back seven days 
later right we know how to navigate that 
conflict because we navigate it like 
we're still friends right and and you're 
a team right you took sacred vows you 
made agreements in front of God 
goddesses and the entire Pantheon of 
everything right that you are going to 
be all in and that's the other thing 
especially in the Western World people 
don't really get it's you know we're so 
disposable you know it's like oh if it 
doesn't work out I'll get divorced I'll 
give you some really frightening 
statistics so we all know that the 
American first marriage divorce rate is 
50 and that's been pretty steady for a 
long time what most people don't know is 
that 62 percent of second marriages and 
71 percent of third marriages end in 
divorce so just thinking the grass is 
going to be greener or it's going to be 
better somewhere else no the truth is 
finding the soul mates the easy part 
learning how to live with them is a 
whole different different thing and then 
when you're single you can't even 
imagine you know because you have this 
thing oh we're going to live happily 
ever after you're going to live 
Ever After yes and you're going to 
choose the happy part you're going to 
learn how to be happy you're going to 
learn how to communicate you're going to 
learn how to compromise but first you 
have to agree to be all in you have to 
just say okay I've made this spell I'm 
taking this ride I'm having this 
commitment 
you know and then do what it takes to 
make it work because it is worth it I 
mean there's nothing better than you 
know knowing that there's somebody in 
the world to be a witness to your life 
who's who cares about your emotional and 
physical safety as much or more than you 
do 
100 
someone who has your back at all times 
right even when they might not want to 
even when you're in a fight you know 
that they're going to be the defense 
attorney to your defendant right exactly 
I love that and you know that's such a 
great thing you've got to be all in 
right and have somebody that has your 
back so if you had to say you know is 
there an unknown secret to relationship 
success that you want everyone to know 
yes yes and this is from 
the guru of marriage Dr John gottman who 
is the absolute Godfather of everything 
needs to be known about marriage and he 
says that every single couple every 
couple has a minimum of nine 
irreconcilable differences these are 
things you're never ever going to agree 
on and it's not a barrier to having a 
happy relationship so the most common 
ones are Sex and Money you want it once 
a month he wants it twice a day you know 
money one person's a spender one's a 
saver one person's always on time one's 
always late one's a clean freak 
perfectionist neat freak the other one's 
a messy border slob and this is normal 
but we live like there's something wrong 
and we're constantly trying to change 
them and you know it's not about 
changing anybody it's about two things 
one is learning how to come up with 
Creative Solutions you know creating a 
win-win situa Asian out of something 
that looks impossible 
and sometimes manipulations involved in 
a moment manipulation's okay you know 
and the other one is practicing what I 
call the art of wabi-sabi love and 
wabi-sabi is the ancient Japanese 
aesthetic of finding Beauty and 
Perfection and imperfection 
because we're all imperfect beings 
trying to have perfection in every area 
of Our Lives we want our homes to look 
perfect we want our kids to be perfect 
we want to be perfect we especially want 
our mates to be perfect and it's never 
going to happen there is no such thing 
as Perfection but could we learn to live 
with good enough you know could we learn 
to be creative and have Creative 
Solutions 
um 
you know I was talking to horrible 
Hendricks about this one day the other 
God of marriage and I I sit and we were 
talking about Creative Solutions and I 
said I said well harvell give me an 
example from your own life about 
creative solution because at the moment 
I wasn't really getting it and he said 
to me he said sure he said my favorite 
thing in life is to wake up in the 
morning get behind the we wheel of a 
vehicle and drive all day and he said 
Helen's favorite thing in life is to sit 
in the living room and either do her uh 
knitting or her embroidery and if she 
has to leave the house she wants to know 
how quickly she can get back home and I 
said okay well that sounds like an 
impossible situation he said no problem 
we bought an RV I'm always driving she's 
always home 
fantastic 
I love that right and that comes from 
that desire to be each other's person 
and and what I want to clarify to you 
dear listeners if you're listening to 
this what Ariel and I are assuming 
when we're talking about this person 
your soul mate your your golden cord you 
know GHQ person what that this is a good 
human being that if somebody is treating 
you badly doesn't have your back is 
throwing down red flags is criticizing 
you maligning you cheating on you 
hitting you like doing any of those bad 
things we're not saying stay with this 
and commit to this and be all into this 
we're assuming right now that you have 
found this juicy amazing human being 
that loves you unconditionally and you 
love this person unconditionally right 
if this is more the Renu Gandhi toad 
we're not telling you stay there and 
figure your way out from the red flags 
and just you know make it work I mean 
look they're all good relationships are 
going to have those as Ariel said nine 
irreconcilable differences but those 
differences shouldn't be differences 
that hurt you physically or emotionally 
to your core right you need to be we all 
do all human beings have this one number 
one core need which is to feel 
emotionally and physically safe Maslow 
is hierarchy that's number one if you 
don't feel emotionally and physically 
safe you need to leave you need to get 
out especially if there are children 
right so the caveat with with wabi-sabi 
love is that you can't find beauty and 
perfection in something that's broken 
you can find beauty and perfection in an 
imperfection oh he leaves wet towels on 
the floor all the time you know he 
doesn't do this or he doesn't do that 
there are ways to overlook certain 
things and pick your battles but if 
there's abuse or active addiction or bad 
behavior 
you got to get out and get professional 
help before you decide if you're ever 
going back in 
absolutely and and to that point uh it 
when Arielle quoted those divorce 
statistics what ends up happening is 
even though as human beings you're a 
smart person you're listening to this 
podcast you want to hear what Arielle 
has to say and what I have to say even 
though you have the intellect you may be 
a Perpetual student of ours of the 
universe of love but what happens is 
something more Insidious human beings 
are creatures of habit and we do what's 
comfortable for US versus even what we 
know is intellectually right what we 
would tell our best friend to do we can 
tend to have what we call regression to 
the mean right you go back to what 
you've done on average and if you have a 
history of choosing people that are bad 
for you that are red flaggy that are 
abusive in some way shape or form put 
some guard rails around you and get help 
because we don't want you to end up in 
that 60 two percent second divorce rate 
or 73 or 74 or 70 100 percent third 
divorce rate you need to get some help 
and support around this the beauty is is 
sometimes for so many of us it can take 
a village to find love and just exhale 
and say it's okay if I need help with 
this because I'll tell you what I grew 
up with this poster in my house and I 
know you guys have heard this before on 
this show that my my chemical 
engineering dad put up on the wall and 
it's the 21 rules for success by H 
Jackson Brown Jr rule number one says 
marry the right person this one decision 
will determine ninety percent of your 
happiness or ninety percent of your 
misery 
it takes a village sometimes to find 
this person if you didn't have good 
active role models for you Mom and Dad 
that role modeled in a lovely way what a 
healthy happy relationship look like 
hell how many of us had that most of us 
did not how many of us dated the right 
people right away right out of the womb 
when we were in high school or college 
not many of us some of us lucked into it 
some of us did a lot of work it's okay 
to seek help around this that is why 
people like us exist this isn't natural 
it requires a lot of work and just know 
that and don't beat yourself up and love 
yourself the way you would love your 
best friend and say okay maybe this is 
something that I need help to stay out 
of that 50 62 and 71 divorce statistic 
right you know and and sir I'm a big 
believer in therapy you know absolutely 
I think therapy is absolutely critical 
and necessary and it's great to have a 
professional who is another set of eyes 
who can point out your crazy behavior to 
you and get you to do other stuff the 
other thing is is that is that if we 
grew up if our early childhood years 
were in chaos right that feels normal 
that's comfortable that's home for us 
and then we meet a secure type who's a 
nice guy and we're not having these wild 
up and downs with emotion and you think 
there's no chemistry and it's boring 
when in fact you know this is a rock 
star this is somebody you could spend 
your life with but again it's because 
you're counting on the feelings right 
you're looking to your feelings to 
determine is this the best I can do for 
a life partner right so you need to be 
choosing people on their capacity their 
capacity to love their capacity to give 
their capacity to live as their word to 
be responsible to be trustable and that 
doesn't happen that's not love at first 
sight you don't open the door and go oh 
six two handsome yeah I choose you right 
but in the meantime they've got three 
other girlfriends and 17 kids from other 
women and you know but you're just gonna 
step over that I don't think so yeah no 
no you can't do that and remember you 
can choose who you're attracted to and 
if you do have attachment issues right 
that is it's serious it's probably the 
number one most important thing that we 
help our clients do in date coaching and 
relationship coaching you know we have 
this Workshop called fix your picker 
right which really helps people 
understand the dysfunction kind of how 
our reptilian brains are wired and what 
kinds of choices were you know we have 
the most proclivity to make and and 
after that Workshop what we do with our 
clients and I know you do the same is 
getting in the weeds and really saying 
when you say this person is boring I'm 
gonna make you go out on a third date 
with this person maybe a fourth date and 
maybe a fifth date it may be an eighth 
day because when you have someone 
sitting at the other side of the Seesaw 
from you saying this is good for you you 
don't know this yet because you've been 
in role roller coaster relationships 
since you were born we can't choose our 
families of origin and you've tried to 
replicate that feeling of excitement 
which leads to high highs and low lows 
sometimes it takes a therapist a coach a 
best friend someone to help you 
understand what good actually is and 
it's not your fault you just haven't 
been able to be witness to good yet but 
I promise you as part of psychotic 
optimism ladies and gentlemen if you 
haven't had that love yet you're going 
to do your golden core cord 
feelingization and you're going to know 
that great love exists for me it's out 
there it's a when it's not an if and all 
I have to do is date like hell to find 
this person we're guaranteeing you 
between Arielle and me she says your 
love is out there I'm saying your love 
is out there we're both saying all you 
have to do is go out there and call them 
in and find them isn't it's exciting I'm 
so hopeful for you yeah yeah you know 
and and people like to set themselves up 
for fail you know uh 
I actually believe there's there are 
some people who are addicted to 
suffering they've lived in the story for 
so long I'm too old I'm too fat I'm too 
damaged all the good ones are taken I 
live in the wrong City blah blah blah 
blah blah that rather than do the work 
put out the effort take the risk they 
live they're they're just there's no way 
you can help them they just want to hold 
on to poor me you know and it doesn't 
have to be that way because there's 7.5 
billion people live on the planet right 
now and half of them are single 
statistically you're walking past 
potential soulmate Partners every day 
but if you're thinking oh my God they've 
got to be 6-2 with a 31 inch waist or 
whatever you're never going to see 
what's right there in front of you 
and if you're telling yourself I need to 
be a size zero two or four in order to 
find love look around is it only skinny 
micro mini La type of Hollywood models 
that are in relationships no are you 
kidding there are people out there that 
will love you exactly as you are at the 
age you are and don't FIB about your age 
online ladies and gentlemen that will 
love you exactly the way you look 
exactly the way you are 
unconditionally I just want to add one 
thing to that the average size wedding 
dress sold in this country is a size 16. 
average did you hear that average that 
means for every zero there's a size 32 
out there okay that brings the average 
to 16. yes now the other thing is let's 
talk about Beyonce Halle Berry Sandra 
Bullock princess dye Melania Trump Reese 
Witherspoon 
um 
um what's her name uh 
uh I can think about 10 others all of 
these women are either a size zero or a 
size two 
they're all very wealthy 
they're all beautiful very accomplished 
and the thing they all have in common is 
they were all cheated on publicly by 
their husbands so being rich beautiful 
size she's successful is no barrier to 
having a great relationship or it's no 
indicator that you will have a great 
relationship so it's just one more 
excuse oh well when I lose that 20 
pounds but it's not going to happen 
because you will lose it and then you're 
going to gain back 25. we know this all 
right everybody's diet enough to know I 
don't care how much weight you lose 
eventually you're going to gain it back 
plus right so it's not about size at all 
it's about willingness like do I am I 
committed enough to my dream of spending 
the rest of my life with a partner and 
am I willing to have some really 
horrible experiences dating because you 
will you will there's no question about 
it there gonna get ghosted there's gonna 
be catfishers there are going to be 
people who lie you're gonna have some 
terrible experiences and am I willing to 
do it anyway knowing that I'm hanging on 
to the the big picture 
perfectly segwaying into this question 
that I've wanted to ask you is 
you talk a lot about manifesting a soul 
mate what do you think what is the 
necessary attitude and what are the key 
steps to manifesting a soulmate 
I think the most important thing is 
being in touch with how you most want to 
feel when you're with your partner 
you know and a good time to do this is 
either right when you wake up or before 
you go to sleep and you're just lying in 
bed and you've got your eyes closed and 
just picture your heart and just imagine 
how do I feel In This Moment now that 
I'm with my perfect life partner I'm 
happy I'm satisfied I'm content I'm 
excited I'm relieved I'm filled with 
anticipation I'm can you know I feel 
safe I feel loved cherished adored 
valued and let yourself marinate in 
those feelings and vibrate at that 
frequency of love and when you're 
vibrating at the frequency of love you 
become a magnet for even more love 
that's right you you become what you 
want to attract 
right yeah 
yeah but if you're living in oh what's 
the matter with me and you know why did 
I eat that cheesecake and if only I 
wasn't you know 
20 pounds thinner 40 pounds thinner you 
know if I only hadn't broken up with so 
and so 18 years ago and you live in all 
this regret and stupid thinking you're 
not gonna get there you know and the 
other place to to really be clear about 
is having a list of your must-haves and 
your deal breakers you have to really 
know those you know like I had some 
crazy must-haves on my list one of one 
of mine was must be able to walk 
unassisted 
the reason for that is I like to walk 
every single day and in my imaginary 
world I was taking long walks every day 
with my soulmate now of course I didn't 
look far enough into the future to the 
point where he had arthritis and 
couldn't walk as much as he used to but 
that's what happens when people get 
older but you know and I had another one 
must have English as a first language 
now I grew up in in South Florida where 
the official language is Spanglish and 
it was and words are really important to 
me and when you're with somebody who 
does for me that doesn't have English as 
a first language there are different 
meanings to words you know and and 
communication becomes even more 
difficult so I wanted somebody who could 
walk but English is a first language and 
the best thing I got that I asked for 
was I wanted somebody who had a great 
mother with whom he had a great 
relationship because I had heard the 
Mother-in-law stories and I wanted 
somebody who a loved and respected women 
and had a great mother and my 
mother-in-law was like the Buddha of 
love I totally like won in that 
department and that's why she gave birth 
to the heart chakra online right right 
he learned at the foot of the Buddha of 
how to be a loving being so yeah so 
you've got you've got to know what 
you're calling in you also got to know 
what you won't tolerate you know like 
for me I wanted somebody who was leading 
a healthy lifestyle which meant you know 
no no drugs no smoking exercise daily 
you know I didn't I don't care what kind 
of exercise he did some people are more 
specific about that like I had a friend 
on her must have list must be a 
triathlete 
and you know what she only had three 
things on her list must be a Christian 
and love God must want children right 
away must be a triathlete they met on 
Tinder and on the first date started 
planning their wedding and they've now 
been I went to the wedding they've now 
been happily married for seven years 
with two kids 
isn't that amazing right and if that is 
really your must-have must-have must 
have a triathlete right if someone came 
to me and said okay I'd really like a 
triathlete I'd say is it really like do 
you have to have to have to and if they 
said it's a deal breaker well good that 
actually Narrows the playing field makes 
it easier a lot right and suddenly if 
you value someone who has done 
triathlons most likely a triathlete is 
going to be more attracted to a fellow 
triathletes who else can understand the 
training involved right most people 
aren't going to put up with someone who 
has to train that much I also had on my 
must-have list must love cats because I 
well I I've always had cats only choose 
plenty but cats are important and I had 
once dated a guy who was allergic to 
cats and we only went out once because 
he I opened the front door and he 
started sneezing and then he started 
coughing and then he started choking and 
I I just looked at him and I and he 
looked at me and we said cats he said 
cats and so we're now friends on 
Facebook but I haven't seen him in 20 
something years 
that well and for you reaching over for 
your 25 pound cat who wasn't in your bed 
made you the next Domino was I want to 
be married I want a man to be here and 
then look at the whole trajectory you 
went down so gotta love cats yeah 
cute little critters you know you said 
something earlier and I wanted to come 
back to this and I know this is so in 
line with everything we've talked about 
but I really want to bring it home for 
people that are listening why living as 
if 
will get you to love faster okay so when 
you're living as if your behavior 
matches your belief so if your belief is 
I'm lovable I'm deserving of love my 
soulmate life partner is out there we're 
going to meet soon in the real world 
then the living is if would look like 
every time you walked into a card shop 
you'd be buying them birthday cards 
anniversary cards Valentine's Day cards 
I love you just because cards every time 
you see a concert or a play you want to 
go to you're buying two tickets with the 
plan to be you're going to take them to 
go on that sort of thing so your 
behavior matches your belief your belief 
is I'm worthy of love I on the other 
side my soulmate or I together soon 
we'll be together in the 3D World this 
is what life is going to look like 
together you know I and for me I I took 
it a step further I ended up you know 
changing the sheets and and the decor of 
my bedroom because it was a very girly 
bedroom the walls were pink everything 
was pink you know so right but I was 
dating so I changed I changed things 
thinking well you know if I were a guy 
would I be comfortable in this very 
girly white lace you know 
duvet you know it was very girly not no 
probably not so I toned it down a little 
bit uh so living as if it is important 
part of it's like dress dress for the 
job you want not the job you have it's 
the same concept 
I love this this is all so great Arielle 
for 
I'm just I'm blown away at your wisdom 
and your knowledge and couldn't be more 
grateful that you said yes to this 
conversation and anything for you Bill I 
love you I love who you are in the world 
I love what you're doing I love the fact 
that you are providing so much truth and 
wisdom in this crazy world where you 
know people are just beat up every day 
with [ __ ] about what's true and 
what's real about love do you know and 
you're sharing it so I'm happy anytime 
you want me just call me well I love it 
because I know we were introduced this 
is our soulmate Connection by someone 
else who is in the day coaching space 
who put Aryan Arielle and I together for 
a potential interview for a summit that 
you and Claire zamet were doing and when 
Arielle and I got on the phone I felt 
this like I was talking to someone I had 
been friends with for a long time and 
after sure what was supposed to be just 
that one interview that we did over the 
phone we stayed in contact and we became 
friends and we would do phone catch-ups 
and we had dinner in Chicago together 
you guys so remember there are people 
out there that want to love you people 
that want to have relationships with you 
be open to the possibilities 
