it's really important that you think 
about one what are you looking for is 
this a long-term relationship is it more 
of a short-term casual relationship 
which is fine but really be open and 
honest with yourself about what you want 
what you need and a lot of people put 
tons of pressure and I understand that 
social media social comparison where 
it's just that they have to find the one 
by a certain point in time and if you 
are able to of course easier said than 
done you know treat this as a wonderful 
way to expose yourself to other people 
that you might not normally connect with 
to learn more about them and to assess 
that interpersonal connection or 
compatibility it's a learning experience 
and if you're able to take it from that 
perspective you're going to feel a lot 
better versus kind of going in and 
putting so much pressure which leads to 
anxiety and can certainly lead to dating 
fatigue 
