[Music] 
you can't make a major decision without 
being connected to the part of you 
that's making decisions in your life 
right and we could say sort of that's 
like brain function right executive 
function part of the brain but really 
what I'm talking about is the capital S 
self not the person you want to be not 
the person you think you should be but 
like really who are you and so many of 
us when we've been in certainly toxic 
relationships we lose that sense of 
ourselves we lose it by Design because 
it's the abuser's job to whittle that 
away we lose it because in order to be 
in something toxic and unhealthy and 
unhappy there's a level of dissociating 
that we have to do and so really the 
first thing we got to do is get back in 
touch with Who Am I who am I really at 
my core and this may differ from who you 
were pre-marriage pre kids right you may 
never have connected with yourself in 
this 
way 
