[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
welcome back I'm so excited to be here 
with you today whether you're listening 
in your car whether you're walking down 
the street maybe you're doing some yoga 
I'm probably not the best person to 
listen to when you're doing yoga but 
that's a whole nother story I'm really 
excited today to have our own Eileen 
Collins of the Smart dating Academy here 
with me today coach extraordinaire who 
has more CEO and coaching wisdom than I 
can even tell you about right now but 
what Eileen and I are going to talk 
about right now is something that you 
have asked for and even when we give it 
to you you ask for it again and again 
and again what we want to talk to you 
today about is signs 
that you're talking to a catfish someone 
who's disingenuous a Tinder swindler a 
fraud somebody who's just plain unsavory 
so Eileen thank you for being here today 
Bella I'm so happy to be here and I'm 
so relieved in a way that people ask for 
this again because it's so important 
it's not 
listen our clients at Smart dating 
Academy your listeners it's not like 
they're our children but think about if 
they were our child like when it is our 
children we don't just tell them some 
safety stuff once and hope it sticks 
this this is like an evolving there's 
always a new scam there's always a new 
spindle and and sadly a lot of times 
because love is a strong emotion that 
makes us all do some crazy things 
um it makes people Target yeah and 
speaking of targets historically you 
know I started Smart dating Academy in 
2009 and have seen a lot of Evolutions 
in dating and these scams but a lot of 
times we would really worry about 
catfishers and scammers really preying 
on people over 50 over 60 but as we know 
in March of this year what swept Netflix 
we did an IG show on this the Tinder 
swindler and if you have not seen this 
it's just a really good documentary to 
watch to know oh my gosh that it's not 
just people that you might consider a 
little older maybe a little bit more 
naive to scams maybe not as tech savvy 
the people the women that were swindled 
were in their 20s and they were Swimming 
by somebody who was the same age he 
really had game and he played the long 
game which probably made 
several very bright women fooled right 
he dangled 
um a fairy tale in front of them 
and he did it for a long time 
exactly and so what we're going to do is 
kind of Take You Bing Bang Boom and 
we're gonna fire hose you smart dating 
Academy Style with a whole lot of 
information in a short amount of time so 
get your notebooks out and you'll 
probably want to save this episode and 
listen to it again and again just to 
make sure that you are not potentially a 
victim no matter who you are and this is 
not just targeted to females guys if 
you're a guy listening to this we've had 
that many men also potentially get lured 
in by someone that is unsavory so I 
think you know that kind of kicks off 
the why why do we why why does this 
happen to us right we're good smart 
sentient people none of us think we're 
scammable right but if you think about 
it Evolution Hollywood 
the whole social media way that we're 
programmed we really I think okay that 
that fairy tale ending is out there my 
prince or my princess is waiting for me 
just like Disney says they would be 
right oh we are programmed to think that 
not only do we hear it you know in those 
Disney movies and the TV shows but our 
our lovely families are well meeting 
lovely families will sometimes say don't 
worry your princess out there you're 
wonderful and when the right 
guys and how many of us were programmed 
to look for somebody who could make all 
our dreams come true 
right 
and here's the key word 
he could rescue us 
rescue us like Prince Charming did for 
Cinderella right he rescued her out of 
her sad life with the evil stepmother 
and the bad stepsisters and for us maybe 
that means you know I've been struggling 
alone as a single mom for so long trying 
to make ends meet or am I good for 
nothing husband or my good for nothing 
ex-wife built me for everything I have 
and took the money I had and yada yada 
yada and suddenly someone that seems 
kind of disney-esque that says I love 
you I adore you and I will rescue you 
comes along and it appeals to our most 
Basic Instincts and let me correct 
something here as you might be thinking 
well a lot of these people are gold 
diggers I want to tell you this is 
different than gold digging okay this is 
a very deep sense of wanting to be taken 
care of that doesn't have to be 
surrounded by bags of gold it means 
rescuing and that's very different than 
wow I'd really like your house in Aspen 
that's not what we're talking about here 
and that's not why that's why fraudsters 
catfishers can be so seductive and Bella 
I love that you brought that up because 
think about to 
there's so many men's beautiful sweet 
stories sometimes for men and women 
they're lonely maybe they've lost their 
mate in a way in a tragic way in a 
normal way broken up whatever 
that doesn't make someone a bad person 
they're lonely but it can 
make them a little more vulnerable to 
scan 
100 and sometimes it is you haven't been 
out on a date in a long time and you 
haven't had to online date and you 
prematurely lost a spouse and you get 
out there and you know you just don't 
know the signs right so there's so many 
reasons so if you feel like this might 
have been you or you know somebody that 
says happen to have Grace and empathy 
for yourself or for the person that it's 
happened to because it's incredibly it 
can be really really painful in the most 
basic and brutal of ways 
so one of the things to be wary of it is 
too good to be true 
okay anybody that 
looks too good to be true is most likely 
too good to be true if you or I or 
anybody listening to this you get an 
email from somebody that looks like 
George Clooney and you're like wow I'm 
not a mall and I don't look like a mall 
but George Clooney's emailing me 
somebody that looks that in a sense out 
of the normal scope of the people that 
are messaging you right and same thing 
with guys Suddenly It's like oh my gosh 
I'm 59 years old and there's this 31 
year old hot blonde who says she loves 
the distinguished types and right 
anything that's too good to be true is 
most likely too good to be true yeah 
yeah 
um also like the photos just somehow 
don't ring right in natural for what the 
photos have been of other people you're 
matching with right maybe you know 
you're matching with somebody who's got 
like a couple of great you know normal 
looking photos and you could picture 
them in your life and with your friends 
but this person 
doesn't seem to fit in with those 
pictures 
100 and if we go back to Tinder swindler 
for a second you know Simon levia the 
brilliant Tinder swindler had pictures 
of himself his moniker was the prince of 
diamonds okay immediately gets your 
attention he's a diamond Scion and he's 
got a picture of himself with the 
Ferrari on a private plane on a yacht 
with you know all of the trappings that 
make someone look wow like who is this 
will certainly get attention right and 
so too good to be true and even if he 
did have all that money you guys or she 
if someone's posting pictures with all 
that stuff ask yourself in your gut is 
this really someone I would want to be 
with not judging but if this is this 
person's currency 
are they looking for the same thing in a 
relationship that I might be 
I I love that you called it currency 
because that's what's happening and 
that's how this happens right it's like 
a lure it's a pretty shiny lure 
extremely wealthy people 
honestly don't need on on a dating site 
an extremely wealthy person might be 
afraid they would get used for their 
money they're not likely going to lead 
with this will be me and my private 
plane right they might be something a 
little more normal right if they're 
unless they're a fraud or a fake right 
and and money becomes their currency and 
one of the things Eileen and I were 
talking about is money unfortunately for 
a lot of fraudsters catfishers becomes 
the currency that they want from you so 
along with these things right somebody 
who's flaunting their money seems too 
good to be true tied into that if 
someone is a little too curious about 
you your money your personal information 
or if they make references right to all 
the money they have but you never see 
these are red flags right and don't feel 
well protected how many times have you 
heard this one Bella why do I have to 
worry about that I don't have money and 
if you learned anything like from Tinder 
swindler even I think 
they're more than happy with you opening 
up some new accounts don't worry it's 
about credit right 
take out a payday loan it's fine I'll 
love you anyway it's just twenty five 
thousand dollars these women were built 
out of millions of dollars collectively 
and none of these women were wealthy 
women and they were scammed by a guy who 
was faking being wealthy who wasn't 
right so again it's not that we're safe 
because we think well I'm not gonna No 
One's Gonna Target me I don't have 
anything hmm 
doesn't matter because they'll what on 
the Tinder swindler he love bombed them 
okay so let's talk about this too much 
too soon grandiose gestures right and 
what did he do he literally nuclear 
bombed these women with these amazing 
trappings come with me tonight to 
Croatia on my private plane and my 
driver and my black Rolls Royce is going 
to come and pick you up and we're going 
to go and stay at the most amazing place 
and have a 28 000 course meal with every 
single thing and this is literally what 
happened right and it ended up being 
sort of fancy scheme and this was the 
first date and you're almost and what he 
did is he blood bombed them so greatly 
with so much money for about a month 
that he sort of flipped into the he he 
it's like you feel like you owe this 
person something because you've received 
so much from them so he didn't ask these 
women on day one to take out a fifty 
thousand dollar payday loan after he had 
spent 
oodles and oodles of some other woman's 
money on you Eileen if you were the 
current object that he wanted to 
ultimately scam he was lathering you up 
with every fine thing on earth taking 
money from another victim and then 
ultimately you would become the victim 
in the next month so when something 
seems too extreme too good to be true it 
is now what I want to tell you this is 
an actual story that happened with the 
client last week 
I got a call from a client and she said 
I think I've been love bumped 
and I said tell me what happened and she 
said well 
the guy I'm dating sent me a bouquet of 
roses 
once a week for the last month 
and I was like 
well let's talk more about that and so 
as I dug into it because you hear about 
love bombing it's like oh my gosh I'm 
being loved about somebody's sending me 
flowers once a week like that seems 
excessive but when they would go out 
together she said they weren't seeing 
each other as often because she had her 
kids in town and he just said to her oh 
you look kind of sad so the day after 
they would have a date he sent her a 
nice bouquet just like hey just thought 
I'd send you these because you're 
amazing once a week and I said I don't 
think you're being love bombed I think 
he's trying to make you smile and so 
they have the conversation and she was 
like oh my gosh thank goodness I have 
you or I would have broken up with him 
because I thought I was being love bomb 
that is not being love bum remember 
ladies and gentlemen if you think you're 
being love bombed remember a narcissist 
a love bomber a catfisher a fraudulent 
person 
when you bring up like hey I was 
wondering like I've never gotten flowers 
from everybody anybody once a week and 
it almost felt like a lot like tell me 
like do you send these out all the time 
like have the conversation about the 
person's intent and if that bad guys 
don't want to be questioned and they 
don't take input very well so if you 
said to him you know what I don't want 
you to spend your hard-earned money on 
me on flowers flowers die I appreciate 
the gesture let's go for a walk instead 
and that'll show me you love me if this 
is a Savory person they'll be like oh my 
gosh absolutely I just want to see you 
smile that's it that's how you 
distinguish am I being love bombed or 
not how does that person take the 
feedback and the input love 
also I do think the subject of money 
when someone's love bombing can feel out 
of the ordinary right it can just feel 
typical love bombing things happen too 
fast and it's uncomfortable I get the 
flowers once a week seemed a lot to our 
client but it would it was a lot I think 
to him too he was saying I'm doing 
something extra right I'm doing a smile 
to make you smile but with our love 
bombers they're going at a speed they're 
comfortable with we're shocked by right 
on the other end of it hey I want you to 
meet my family up for our second date 
that seems fast 
right if a moving truck a U-Haul with 
you know 17 
000 tons of hydrangeas arrives that 
might be a little weird right a little 
over the top right and then again maybe 
he's just awkward and he didn't know 
what to do and we give him the benefit 
of the doubt we're like hey you don't 
have to send a U-Haul of hydrangeas over 
anymore he's like oh my God was that too 
much it was a little much okay great but 
a narcissist a love bomber a catfisher 
will not take that feedback well they'll 
say you're ungrateful what do you mean I 
could have sent that to you know five 
other women and they would have loved 
that right that's when you know you're 
catching them yeah and there's like a 
little guess I'm a little making you 
feel badly 
um and and it seems like when it is that 
kind of love bombing 
they'll say things also it's not always 
just the gesture it's what they're 
saying that seems like you know I 
already picture us living together I've 
never met anyone like you 
so quickly we do want to hear that but 
not in the first week or two right yeah 
even in the first month you guys know 
Eileen and I did the 15-day rule Sylvia 
foti and Eileen coached Sylvia right so 
yeah no we're not looking for that in 
the first two weeks we're looking for 
that way later I mean honestly as 
awesome as you are dear listener do you 
really think after one week someone 
knows that they want to spend the rest 
of their life with you that you're the 
most amazing person that they've ever 
seen you might be the most amazing 
person they've ever spent seven days 
with non-stop however right and too much 
too soon is a red flag so if you feel 
like you're being pushed too fast try to 
slow it down and if the person reacts 
well great and if they don't you have 
somebody who's red flaggy maybe Fraud's 
Dury you never know it's just something 
you probably want to jump out of and of 
course if you have questions always 
email us about we're here to help you we 
do day a coaching we help people with 
this scenario every single day this is 
our this is what we do this we want to 
put more love into the world and keep 
you out of dumpster fire situations 
exactly keep our guard rails up one of 
the things that another kind of common 
talk about too fast things that we we've 
had many a client here is you know what 
it'll be easy let's get off the dating 
site like they rush you you maybe you've 
suggested a nice video chat and they oh 
my membership's expiring tomorrow 
right and they that's a great point that 
they my membership's expiring tomorrow 
or hey could you email me at you know 
Andy hotmail.com so we can get off the 
site yeah no not right away and somebody 
who refuses your request to do a phone 
call or a video date I don't like that 
and I get you might say to yourself I'm 
not a phone person I'm Zoom fatigue you 
know what it's time to get over it in 
the dating world people will ask you to 
do face times or video dates just to 
make sure that in three dimensions you 
look as good as your photos and your 
profile and you dear listeners should do 
exactly the same but guess what do you 
think a catfisher or a fraudster wants 
to be seen on camera no so they will 
always have an excuse as to why they 
cannot do it 
yes and the more spontaneous the more 
you'll notice they're just declining the 
call even though you've talked on the 
decline right a spontaneous let's 
FaceTime can we meet here 
yeah they don't want to do that they 
don't want to be seen right because most 
likely they're not from around here and 
it might be a different time zone where 
they are I mean there's local catfishers 
and people that are running scams but 
there's a lot that a lot of people are 
based overseas that try to do this as 
well so just keep your guard up a little 
bit and like we're saying reach out to 
us we're happy to coach you around these 
situations because there's nothing more 
important than your safety 
speaking of the people that might be in 
another country there's also 
this thing where there are certain 
people that we just have an innate trust 
for right the military are you know 
doctors police you know people in 
different jobs 
a lot of times catfishers seem to have 
those jobs and a lot of times they're 
abroad I'm in the military I'm stationed 
over here 
exactly remember 
someone oversees shouldn't be on the 
same website that you are why if they're 
overseas are they trying to schedule a 
date with you locally they ought to be 
looking in Dubai or wherever they are at 
this point and and one of the things 
like Eileen's saying they're often 
Physicians I'm Doctors Without Borders 
right I'm a surgeon I'm working for 
Habitat for Humanity I'm I work on an 
oil rig right so you respect without 
question are you without a question how 
could you even ask about him this man 
has sacrificed everything to do this out 
of the goodness of his heart right 
they get us where we're vulnerable right 
and that's how they justify the fact 
that they're not emailing you on their 
time zone oh I can't talk to you on the 
phone because I'm so busy and it's night 
when it's day so anybody that again 
looks like George Clooney says he's a 
surgeon by day supermodel by night but 
is based in in you know Ghana 
might throw up a red flag or two yeah 
for our gentlemen listeners 
a similar feel is not quite necessarily 
that they're in the service injury 
industry but it could be that their 
damsels in distress right you're going 
to save me this happened you wouldn't 
believe what's going on with me and then 
they present a scenario that's 
heart-wrenching 
oh right 
I was on my way to the airport to meet 
you and there's been a terrible car 
accident yes yeah and they've built up 
so much trust and you've talked to them 
potentially for hours and they'll say I 
can't believe I'm so stupid that I left 
my wallet at home or my wallet burned in 
the fire along with my car I just need 
you could you just wire me five thousand 
dollars and I'll pay you back as soon as 
I get on that flight to see your cute 
little face my purse was snatched at the 
airport you won't believe it I don't 
have my ID I can't come tomorrow if I 
had money I it cost this to do this and 
that to do that 
and anybody that asks you for money in 
any stage of the relationship right and 
I'm not saying if you say you know can 
we can we split the can we split 
breakfast okay that's that catfishing 
I'm saying if somebody messages you and 
says oh my gosh I'm at my daughter's 
book fair and she really wants you know 
a book and I'm so dumb I forgot my 
wallet could you just venmo the school 
what they're doing is they're kicking 
the tires on your gullibility right 
nobody should be asking you for money 
early in the game no for any reason 
honestly I still look at Mark funny when 
he died no I'm kidding 
Marcus Eileen's husband of 30 years 30 
years yes this September yeah amazing 
right exactly you're right when Andy my 
husband of 25 years asked me if I have 
cash I'm like why where's yours what are 
you thinking yeah are you trying to 
capture yeah we don't want to make 
people 
a naturally suspicious however 
when households haven't been joined when 
you're not exclusive when when you don't 
really know someone 
asking for something that makes you 
uncomfortable whether it be money 
or pictures 
or inappropriate pictures or money 
those things do make you uncomfortable 
hopefully 
hopefully and remember a lot of this 
will be built in some intense 
conversations in the beginning you'll 
feel like they want to get to know 
everything about you and especially if 
you've been lonely maybe you've lost a 
spouse you've broken up with a boyfriend 
or a girlfriend you know you're coming 
out of divorce where you were verbally 
abused all the time and suddenly 
somebody's loading up your proverbial 
coffee cup with words of affirmation 
interest they want to know every little 
detail about you to the point where 
you're like oh my gosh I've never felt 
so seen before I've never felt so 
interesting I've never had somebody just 
want to know every little tidbit about 
me yeah yeah 
I mean 
the hardest part about all the things 
that we're talking about is that it 
plays on emotions when we use behaviors 
that are attached to emotions 
it's really a tricky bag it's it's not a 
great idea right 
not at all clearly we want to be using 
our heads and not our heart 
exactly and trust your intuition if 
something seems off most likely it is 
off ask people around you whose opinions 
you trust right ask people is this weird 
people will tell you yeah that sounds 
weird to me I don't like that that 
sounds a little sus it and and 
trust your gut I love what you just said 
there's a really famous book and I can't 
remember the author but it's called The 
Gift of fear and it talks about how when 
you have like the hairs on the back of 
your neck standing up 
sometimes it's because you've seen 
something that you're maybe so quickly 
your mind can't put it together you 
don't even realize you saw something you 
just recognize this feeling 
um and it is something sometimes it's 
more than intuition sometimes it's 
something you've noticed you've seen 
there's a reason your gut is 
kind of trying to give you a warning oh 
100 and that just triggered my memory 
into one of the things I wanted to share 
with you is when people are you know 
asking you all about you like oh my gosh 
I want to get to know you what city were 
you born in right when people start 
sounding like they're asking you 
security questions that your bank asks 
you to set up sort of hurdles so you 
know it's like what's your mother's 
maiden name what city were you born in 
what was the make of your first car what 
was your first pet's name what was the 
first house that you grew up in if 
someone seems like they're asking you 
security questions right you're just 
gonna wanna oh my God it's hilarious but 
the thing is they certainly won't ask 
them all like that so we could just sit 
back and go okay 
basically it can go like this you know 
oh my God 
you're from Florida what part blah blah 
blah were you born like it just start do 
you know the this family well what's 
your mother's wait your dad's name was 
this but what was your mom's name it 
just can sound 
like they're natural so natural 
do you have a dog now what's his name 
right oh my gosh what was your first 
dog's name I know your dog's now is Coco 
what was your very first pet Eileen 
right yeah and I just I can't set it for 
a podcast well like a [ __ ] right 
exactly if you want a catfish Eileen and 
take her out on a Tinder swindler date 
she's right there for you you got it so 
having all of it 
oh 
the thing is like with I I love that you 
brought the last points up especially 
because 
the the advantage that 
fraudsters and swindlers and near do 
Wells have is they have a mission they 
know they have a goal and they know what 
they're looking for and they know what 
they have intent 
crimes of this sort are very similar to 
crimes of any sort which is most of them 
are crimes of opportunity 
oh that's so well said so well said and 
you know one of the tips that just came 
to mind as well 
as we're going through these and they're 
so closely related and I know they seem 
like common sense right but sometimes 
guys common sense is the least common of 
the census yeah right when we're lured 
in when we're when we feel like we're 
seeing someone that is attractive to us 
and we have dating app fatigue and we're 
like oh my God finally finally here 
comes someone I can tell you 
um the story of a client of ours that 
had a home in Florida and then a home in 
Arizona and she was hilarious widowed 
whip smart like c-suite level and she 
said oh my gosh and she was in Florida 
at this time and she's like oh my gosh 
Bella finally someone amazing and I was 
like oh my gosh tell me about him and so 
she said oh he's great 
um he's super cute 
um and then as we got to talking 
something in my own gut was like okay 
something's off and this was a new class 
client and I said well what's his last 
name she says Ah I was going to ask you 
about that I Googled him his first and 
last name and there's nothing I said 
nothing she says not a thing 
so being the c-suite you know not shy 
person that she is she said to him hey 
buddy I tried to Google you and nothing 
comes up 
what's that about 
he did not miss a beat and said listen 
I have a private business I am a 
high-end jewelry maker and that's why my 
clients are super private and I work by 
referral only I don't even have a 
storefront but I'm gonna send you some 
of the things I've designed 
and she sends them to me she's like 
aren't these pretty 
and some of them pretty I'm like these 
look like they were from these are from 
like the Queen's Personal Collection 
nice I was like I don't like any of this 
at this point so she says to him okay 
you know my you know I don't know that 
you're telling me the truth she's very 
out there and his pictures looked again 
too good like almost like super like 
actors headshots so I said his pictures 
don't look good one of these came up on 
a stock photo site 
so when he said oh you know what 
somebody must have taken my photo here's 
five current photos of me he sent her 
five selfies that looked exactly like 
that guy and that threw even me off the 
scent I was like oh my God is this guy 
legit like one in his car one in front 
of his house like that looked just like 
the stock photo but they were clearly 
cell photo phones and I was like 
oh my God like 
is this guy really legit am I being too 
paranoid but then when it actually came 
time to meet for the date guess what he 
never showed he didn't show 
he didn't show right and so so it goes 
to show he was fraudulent but they get 
trickier and more crafty I mean I second 
guessed myself yeah when I saw those 
selfies I was like oof maybe I'm just 
too paranoid he had all the other signs 
and our client was like oh look at these 
Jewels I'm like those ain't real right 
those are first those are some stock 
photos from like the Queen's jewelry I 
love that and there can be other things 
that should feel 
maybe we could notice but we hear things 
that make us feel differently like maybe 
there's a crazy age difference right 
maybe you're making allowances for it 
because you're you know it just sounds 
so good he's so into me I can't believe 
someone that looks like this or seems 
like this 
you know how many men Bella do we know 
of that have been catfished by a very 
stunning much younger woman 
it's incredibly seductive right for any 
guy even the ones that you know quote 
unquote know better and they'll tell us 
like hey you guys someone that's 19 just 
messaged me we're like what 
and I'm like that's a dude somewhere in 
a call center it's not a 19 year old 
that looks like you know you know that 
looks like America's top model like love 
you you're a handsome guy but this is 
not happening that's not happening right 
we're not looking for a mail-order bride 
and I don't even think this is a mail 
order bride so let's just delete and 
block and that's fine and that brings up 
another thing that you people get so 
bent out of shape about and I look at 
this as a blessing Eileen I'm sure 
you've seen this with our clients where 
you're messaging back and forth with 
somebody and then suddenly the next day 
it says profile unavailable yes yes okay 
that probably means that the site has 
said 
this person is a fraud yes 
and they've been pulled off of the site 
and so often we want to say oh my gosh 
there was one normal person and I was 
messaging with them and now their 
profile's unavailable it's like someone 
caught that person be grateful move on 
it's not about you it's not about you 
don't personalize that stuff okay if the 
profiles are unavailable so 
um you know and I think that 
if you're still on the fence is this 
person legit or not try to give them a 
spontaneous call 
a spontaneous Face Time 
see if they pick up right now if you 
give me a spontaneous face time I might 
not pick up because I might not look 
socially presentable but I will text you 
and say I look like something to Cat 
Dragged In let me put on a berry lip and 
I'll call you I'll FaceTime you in 10 
seconds 
I love that you only have to put on a 
berry lip I'm like I will be changing 
out of the coffee I spilled all over 
myself but yes meet you there right 
exactly I'm going to show you from my 
chin up don't get me wrong right exactly 
if you catch me on an ambush FaceTime 
but 
um that's the only reason I wouldn't 
pick up an instant face time is because 
I look like hell but in general if it's 
someone you don't know and you're being 
if you feel like you're getting the 
heebie-jeebies about this person 
try it you got nothing to lose exactly 
exactly go with your gut and if you're 
really 
just not sure what's going on 
message Bella right 100 and listen 
catfishers fraudsters do we think they 
keep their promises and their 
commitments never they don't they don't 
so if somebody's inconsistent unreliable 
ghost you stands you up remember you 
have dodged a bullet so I told you we 
were gonna fire hose you today with so 
many tips so much information around 
this I hope that you enjoyed this and 
please 
put more love into the universe share 
this episode with someone who needs to 
hear it someone who has a bad picker 
someone who is susceptible to this maybe 
it's your mom maybe it's your dad who's 
getting into dating maybe it's your 
brother your neighbor your cousin your 
colleague send this episode to someone 
and I'll tell you Eileen Lindsay and I 
did an IG live right after the Tinder 
swindler came out and we talked about 
you know the military service people and 
I said anybody that says they're on an 
oil rig is potentially you know no bueno 
yeah I had a girl that messaged me on 
Instagram after she watched the show and 
she says you have no idea I think your 
IG live just saved my life my father was 
a an oil rig employee and I got a 
message from a guy that worked on an oil 
rig and I've been communicating with him 
we were planning to meet up he had every 
red flag that you delineated thank you 
for letting me know this and guess how 
old she was 32. guys this can happen to 
us at any age 
I hope you love this if you do give us a 
great rating write something great about 
the podcast there's nothing there's no 
better gift than you can give to Eileen 
and me than sharing this rating it and 
saying something lovely about your true 
feelings we're not asking you to blow 
smoke just put your feelings down 
because we love you and we are here for 
you so until next week 
stay out of catfishers stay away from 
fraudsters and keep spreading the love 
in psychotic optimism we leave you for 
this week thank you 
