[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back and as always you know I'm 
just excited about life in general but 
I'm really excited today to have not 
just an amazing expert but amazing human 
being who happens to also be a friend of 
mine probably for almost a decade 
at this point ladies and gentlemen I am 
so happy to present to you my friend 
Rachel dealto Rachel welcome hello love 
it really has been it's got to be at 
least a decade it's crazy it's insane 
and I know I think you and I met because 
I was on your podcast yes way back in 
the day like Rachel's so cool everyone 
that Rachel is doing a podcast before it 
was like a thing okay and then I quit 
before it became a thing I was like this 
is a lot of work and now I see everybody 
doing it I was like I probably should do 
one but I know how much work it is 
that's why I stopped girl yes you're 
just you're always ahead of the curve so 
for those of you who don't know Rachel 
dealto you should she is an amazing 
author she's prolific she's a 
relationship expert she's a coach she's 
a recovering attorney and mediator I 
think you have like 10 degrees I don't 
don't even know what they all are she's 
been on TV we've been on TV together 
we've both worked with match.com this is 
why I just love this human being because 
she's as beautiful inside as she is on 
the outside and today she is going to 
tell us about 
relatability what is relatability and 
how we can 
all become better humans make more 
friends and be better on 
dates I'm ready oh my god Ra tell us 
what what does it mean the title of your 
book is relatable tell us about what is 
relatability yeah so it's an interesting 
thing and obviously there's dictionary 
definitions and there's there's a lot of 
ways that we can Define it but for me it 
came from I I was on Married at First 
Sight I left and I was getting all these 
messages from the audience members 
saying you were the most relatable 
expert I thought what the heck does that 
mean you know I I get what it could mean 
you know by the dictionary but what does 
that mean what are they feeling why are 
they feeling connected to me and that's 
really what it was it was this this it 
was bigger than likability it was bigger 
than just likable because I think you 
can like a lot of people right we like a 
lot of people but that doesn't mean I 
want to invest my energy into you and 
that's where I felt like the 
differentiation came between likable and 
relatable was relatable is like wow I 
really want to connect to you I want to 
I want to be a part of your world I want 
to invest my energy into you and that's 
where I really start to differentiate 
the two and is relatability I love how 
you're differentiating that is it is it 
I feel like you're like me is that what 
it is kind of also yeah and it's it's I 
can understand you like I get you and I 
can I can I can dive into who you are uh 
and and you're not hiding who you are so 
I can see you so it's really it doesn't 
have to be the same people we could have 
people being very relatable who are very 
different uh so it's not that you're 
seeing yourself in the other person 
necessarily is I see who this person is 
okay got it so that's really so the 
difference between likeability that's 
like a positive person yeah like oh my 
gosh that person's just warm and 
friendly and D but relatable is I feel a 
connection to you yes okay that's great 
and it's great to like people you think 
oh I like you I don't know if I want to 
connect with you but I like you you're 
great you're life of the party but if 
you're relatable I want to get to know 
you yeah there's a deeper deeper 
connection there wow so relevant 
everywhere in life relevant in the 
aspects of life that I think we all 
crave more of if we're being honest with 
ourselves who doesn't 
want richer friendships and maybe more 
more friendships at the end of the day 
better relationships with everybody 
around you right and maybe better dates 
as well what do you have I think that 
that this applies to all of those things 
and and it's so true in terms of 
friendship you know that's something 
it's it's something that comes up 
oftentimes I do Tik Tok even though I am 
not 20 years old uh but I started doing 
it and realized there was this whole 
audience on there that was craving 
content and information and so I started 
doing these Tik toks on friendship and 
they would blow up and the most 
heartbreaking responses were I don't 
have any friends I don't have any 
friends I don't know how to make friends 
all these adults were saying that they 
had no friends or they didn't have good 
friends and it was just it was such a 
wakeup call to me that I realize there 
are so many adults out there you know 
it's very easy when you're a child 
you're in school or you're at the recess 
or you're playing sports and and whatnot 
but then we get to this stage where 
we're working and maybe we have a family 
and maybe we have have a partner but we 
don't have friendships and I can't 
imagine my life without my friendships 
but I recognize that there's so many 
people out there that don't have that 
and I do believe you know we blame a lot 
on social media we blame a lot on 
society in terms of our loneliness but I 
do think that the lack of friendship is 
a massive problem there's one in four 
people in the United States have zero 
friends so I I just I every time I think 
about that statistic I get a little bit 
sad and gave Goosebumps yeah it's 
heartbreaking cuz it was one in I think 
1 in 10 uh 20 years ago so we're going 
in the wrong direction and and so 
relatability connection is connecting to 
friends but yes also as you know daters 
we we have to date better you know we 
all want this companionship but we have 
to put ourselves out there in a 
different way so that we're actually 
seeing people and and showing people who 
we are so that they can actually love 
you no and that's so right and I know in 
your book relatable which is great and 
I'll put a link to it in the show notes 
um you cite the Harvard Grant study 
which was the longest longitudinal study 
on what makes men happy of course it 
started in 1938 so they only looked at 
men in the cohort but Pasha but the the 
spoiler alert to that is that what made 
these men happiest over 75 years was the 
quality and the depth of their 
relationships with other people and this 
was dudes you guys okay now for women we 
like yeah right but to hear from you 
that one in four humans in this country 
now as opposed to one in 10 so 25% 
versus 10 say that they have no friends 
Rachel how do we make friends at any age 
like tell us about this that's so 
disturbing to me and sad and I think 
it's something that gives so many people 
so much fear we've all been ghosted by a 
friend and it's almost as pain 
as having our hearts broken by a 
romantic other but if if there's you 
know for the listener that's listening 
to this and going yeah I used to have a 
lot of friends and maybe now I have two 
or I've never really had friends or I 
would just like to make new friends tell 
us how we can do that yeah well first I 
have to say all it takes is one so most 
of the research shows that as long as 
you have one good connection you are 
protected from a lot of the things that 
can be very detrimental when you don't 
have friendship 
uh so if you have just what it's okay we 
don't want to cling too tightly to them 
but it's good to have at least one solid 
friendship but I do believe that when 
we're looking at creating more 
friendships we have to look internal and 
external so there's internal and 
external activities the easy part is the 
external right and we talk about this 
all the time go to the places where you 
enjoy doing things you know whether it's 
if it's going to the gym then do classes 
don't do you know don't sit on the 
treadmill with your your airpods in go 
to a class somewhere where you're 
actually talking to people who have a 
similar interest in you it's very 
similar to finding dates in in the wild 
I don't know who that person is on their 
treadmill that can run and talk to 
another if that's you I'm really jealous 
because I am Huffing and puffing like a 
dog yeah I can't even go on the 
treadmill so the fun story I actually 
can't run in a straight line like on a 
treadmill I physically can't do it so 
why does that not totally surprise me 
I'm like SP it's it's so bad so I I fall 
off treadmills um so you're better than 
me that you're even on the 
treadmill but anyway so yes if if you 
are enjoying the gym if you really enjoy 
you know learning a language or going 
back to school or cooking or whatever it 
is that has more than one person in that 
that space go do those things to try to 
meet those people you can meet people 
online but obviously we want those in 
Real Life Connections are so much more 
important to our our psyche and and to 
our health so we want to be able to have 
the online offline component um but you 
can start online you can go to your you 
know local groups that that have some 
sort of activities outside of Facebook 
or I don't think Meetup is Meetup still 
a thing are people still on meet still a 
thing okay so if you're on Meetup you 
know there's just there's so many 
different opportunities and it really 
could be a simple approach to it where 
you're just setting the intention of 
wherever I go and whatever I'm doing in 
my life I'm open to meeting new people 
so really setting that mindset but then 
the internal side is so important too of 
when you do meet those people how are 
you presenting yourself and that's 
really where relatable comes in it's you 
know I try to bring it through this 
blueprint of of connect communicate 
Inspire and really showing up you know 
the short version of this um where 
obviously we can't get into all of it 
but connect is is showing up as you and 
that means like all the versions of you 
you know authenticity I think is this 
buzz word 
but when people say like just be 
yourself and I'm like I have 17 versions 
of who I am you know I have the person 
who's talking right now who isn't 
cursing I have the person who if you 
grab a beer with me oh my gosh the F 
bombs that come out uh you know I have 
the the buttoned up version I have the 
laid-back version you like there's all 
different versions of ourselves but 
whoever you bring to the table make sure 
that those are versions of you that are 
real uh and then going into communicate 
and Inspire there's there's different 
elements of just how you communicate 
like communicate in a way that the 
people feel important you know and and 
that's I think such a big part of when 
we meet someone new whether it's a 
friend or a date showing up in a way 
that I'm focused on making this a great 
experience for myself obviously we want 
you to have a good time and I want you 
to be a part of the conversation but how 
am I showing up to make other people 
feel like they're special you know how 
do I CU that's all people want they just 
want to feel like they're important to 
you and so often we meet people and then 
we railroad the conversation kind of 
like I'm doing right now uh no you're 
not we want to hear all of it from you 
my friends I have this internal clock 
where I'm like Rachel you've talked 
enough please stop 
talking not that's because you're so 
relatable I just want like I want people 
to know that there's entry points of 
conversation but so often we see this on 
bad First Dates we see this on bad 
meetings with with potential friends 
they just get railroaded in this 
conversation then they they don't feel 
like they mattered in it so then why do 
they want to continue talking to this 
person so it's the communicate obviously 
has a lot of different facets to it but 
it really is about just being aware of 
how you show up in communication in a 
way that allows people to feel like they 
matter so tell me about this and 
sometimes I feel like it's a dichotomy 
myself like we're supposed to show up 
authentically but then we're supposed to 
be positive like help me reconcile this 
like if I'm having a crappy [ __ ] day for 
example and I'm going to an event and 
there's all these versions of myself 
like you said there's 17 versions of me 
I can be the wine drinking F drop bomb 
dropping person I can be I can look like 
the weather girl straight off of a 
segment like we can all play all these 
different roles how like is there 
something we should be doing 
consistently to better connect with 
people and do we need to change our 
authenticity like help us here Rachel 
well I would say if you're having a bad 
day like your bad day is not your 
personality so this isn't who you are 
showing up as authentic is is showing up 
as your authentic personality and not 
necessarily your mood so they're they're 
very different personality and mood so I 
would say let's try to change the mood 
you know mood is mindset to me and mood 
can be shifted and if it can't be 
shifted then maybe you don't go to that 
event maybe you you postpone that first 
date until you feel better the next day 
you know I think people showing up as as 
their best self it means you know you're 
in the best possible mindset uh but 
you're still showing up as you and so 
that's where it's that that's where I 
think that dichotomy kind of merges 
because you can still and and maybe you 
have to go to something you can be like 
you can be honest about it and maybe it 
becomes part of the the conversation of 
like I'm just it's been a rough one like 
how are you doing instead of lying and 
saying oh my God I'm great everything's 
great right right cuz you feel that when 
people aren't being actually real in 
those conversations it doesn't mean that 
we show up places again it's like I want 
I want people to to do things and and 
push themselves outside of their comfort 
zone and maybe try to shift their 
mindset but if it's really a bad day I 
don't know sometimes it's better just 
take a minute yeah take a breather right 
we've all had those days okay so now 
let's change the scenario Bella put out 
like and I love that 
differentiation that your personality is 
not your mood a mood is transient it's 
like the weather it could be a stormy 
day five minutes later it could be sunny 
if you can take that weather system and 
change it but your personality is who 
you authentically are and who is that 
person and that's who you want to bring 
maybe not the F-bomb dropping part of 
you if it's you know kind of a 
networking event and you want to put 
your best foot forward but you know if 
you're at a Meetup Group where 
everyone's like come in and bring that 
version of yourself then bring that 
version of yourself exactly yeah I think 
there's there's a time and place and and 
that's where we have to allow for all 
those variations and yeah just 
remembering it mood is so that in 
Psychology they call it State and trait 
so state is I'm going through a state 
that would be my mood transient comes 
and goes sometimes sometimes those moods 
last for a while sometimes you know 
they're they're instantaneous and get 
adjusted by a puppy you know and then 
there's also our traits and some of our 
traits are immutable and and there are 
things that that you really need to lean 
into and that's part of it too is I 
think above El above all else is is 
really just identifying you know where 
am I uncomfortable with who I am where 
am I where are my my traits problematic 
for me and when can I into them to 
really Embrace who I am you know there's 
certain things that that make you you 
and that's okay I I have learned uh and 
as my fiance has learned in the last 
couple months as we've renovated our 
house I'm a control freak and I am a 
perfectionist the only area in my life 
that I'm actually a perfectionist is 
with design of of my house like I don't 
care and I have taken complete control 
and he's realized that this is who I am 
and I'm like this is who I am I'm not 
going to pretend I'm not going to 
pretend to like that I'm not going to 
pretend to be easygoing in this case 
because I am easygoing in every other 
situation not here okay not now not now 
did you just learned this about yourself 
or this is something you knew well it's 
in you know every relationship is 
different and it's the first time that I 
had somebody who actually cared about 
you know what was brought into the house 
and I've always kind of just done it and 
it didn't matter and he cares but we 
have agreed on stuff and there's certain 
things that we've disagreed on and you 
know we've come to like a stal me and 
it's like okay then we choose something 
else but 
yeah I didn't realize how intense I was 
about it like I'm telling you Bella it 
goes from like zero to six I was like no 
no like I hate that like how could you 
love that I renovated we got at our 
house together after having been married 
for 20 years I'll tell you what if you 
can gut a house together and renovate 
together you can probably stand the test 
of time yeah that's what we're literally 
like we're in the final touches like 
things are finally getting delivered and 
whatnot and we're done next week and I'm 
like if we just did that we good we're 
good oh my God I love that so um well 
tell me if you could give us some re 
just you know let's say now we've got a 
good personality we're in a good state 
right and we're just feeling a little 
anxious and maybe and one one point I 
love in your book is when you are kind 
of you have to dig in like you just said 
to figure out what parts of me do I not 
like what am I afraid of am I afraid my 
friends are going to abandon me because 
it started in fifth grade and it would 
happen every three years like someone 
would would finally decide I'm annoying 
or whatever it is it's like and dig in 
and figure out what you're afraid of and 
then work to resolve that or how do you 
get over that I know you talk about that 
in the book yeah and so there's a lot of 
things that come into play here and 
social anxiety is an enormous challenge 
for so many and it's another growing uh 
anxiety disorder in our world right now 
and I wouldn't even classify it just to 
the United States and so it's really 
understanding like there there are 
people out there and social anxiety is 
an actual diagnosable condition where 
you are so anxious to engage socially 
that you you avoid it and then when you 
do it you actually sit there thinking 
about all the things you did wrong that 
is like stereotypical they come back and 
they're just like I did this wrong they 
must hate me and it becomes this spiral 
of thoughts so it's it's understanding 
that exists and so if you have those 
feelings those are things that you can 
absolutely become aware of and start to 
work through but a lot of us just have 
regular little baggage you know we have 
all these things that we went through 
and these challenges that we've we've uh 
have overcome or working to overcome and 
you know the biggest thing that I've 
seen is that awareness component oent 
because a lot of times we we avoid you 
know a lot of times we don't look at it 
we feel that feeling but we kind of push 
it down or we just ignore it and we 
don't really recognize what's causing it 
if we don't look at it and we don't 
recognize what's causing it then we 
can't actually realize what's the 
underlying problem to heal it and as I 
quoted Jay-Z in the book you can't heal 
what you don't reveal and so we have to 
shine a light on it and that's where 
it's really digging into those things 
and you know it's a challenge 
that we all go through and and even the 
people who feel like they have it all 
together you know I had massive 
abandonment issues massive from my 
childhood I tell a story you know in the 
beginning of the book where I had no 
friends um all my friends ditched me cuz 
I was kind of this overweight nerdy girl 
know- it- all complete know it- all so 
apparently I had some you know issues 
back then control issues control issues 
back then so um you know I thank God 
they've they've dissipated in a lot of 
areas except for the the home decor 
um but I had like all of these things 
from child like my little inner child 
was wounded and so we have to look at 
that and we have to be willing to say 
there are decisions I'm making now there 
are responses I'm having now that are 
triggered by things that I don't even 
remember until I actually look at it and 
so so much healing can happen through 
that awareness and sometimes it's just 
being aware like oh wow that's why I'm 
doing that and now I can start to shift 
it and sometimes it actually takes a 
professional to sit down with and dig 
into and have those ahas and have those 
healings okay so I love that now let's 
say young Rachel de Alto is now a 
35-year-old female and it's like oh my 
God I so relate to this episode and I 
was that nerdy you know overweight no 
atall smart kid that had was not 
athletic and really prided myself I got 
myself self esteem for my knowledge but 
it became a repellent for people and now 
I'm 35 how do I how do I make friends 
like how can you give me some tips on 
how I can do that now that I know what 
it is I've done my dive I'm like oh 
that's where it came from now what well 
it's it's understanding like there's a 
reason you feel like that there's a 
reason that you're approaching 
situations in this way and and honestly 
sometimes it's just being aware that 
that 35-year-old Rachel could say holy 
crap like that's that's how I'm showing 
up like I can start to change because 
the thing is when we start to look at 
things and we become aware of past 
conditions that are causing current 
problems we are now able to shift our 
behaviors and your brain will do this 
for you because you are aware of it 
you're now going to pay attention to 
what's in front of you and pay attention 
to how you show up differently and I I 
liken this too I I tell this story often 
where you know I love Marshalls I think 
Marshalls and TJ Maxx are like super fun 
you never know you walk in there you 
think you need some shampoo you walk out 
with like a couch and a fake tree and 
some T-shirts but the problem is is I 
also get massive anxiety when I go in 
there because everything is out of order 
right there's nothing is it's like you 
know all the shirts are mixed together 
we got stuff over here everything's in 
all these different places but if I go 
into a TJ Maxx or Marshalls and I say 
I'm looking for a blue shirt all of a 
sudden all I see are the blue shirts 
because that's what I'm paying attention 
to and that's what I'm focusing on and 
allows me to to you know distract from 
all of the other elements and really 
focus on what's in front of me and it's 
the same thing that our brain does same 
thing when we buy a car you buy a new 
car all of a sudden hey I never realized 
there was a million white Jeeps on the 
road guess what there's not there's the 
same number as there was yesterday your 
brain is just focusing on an intention 
and that's why intentions are so 
powerful so go into these situations now 
aware of how you talk of how you connect 
of of how maybe you were clinging before 
maybe you were overdoing it maybe you 
were the opposite maybe were you're 
pushing people away so all of a sudden 
because you're aware that this is a 
possible tendency your brain now shows 
it to you literally on a platter and 
says like hey 
human like maybe we could do that a 
little 
differently I love that and and in 
addition to that you talk aot lot about 
the power of positivity tell us about 
this yes and this is very different than 
toxic positivity which is a massive 
problem in this world where people are 
like no no no everything happens for a 
reason everything's great like no no no 
this is this is good and we do that to 
other people right oh my gosh we do it 
to our we do it to ourselves like we do 
it to everybody yeah oh you know it's 
you know having had a miscarriage I 
remember when people would say back in 
the day well at least your fertile or at 
least you already have a daughter right 
and so you're like um that that didn't 
feel good I don't know what could feel 
good but that didn't I don't want you to 
Brightside me I don't need bright side 
me yes yes and and so when we talk about 
positivity that's not the the the level 
or the direction that we're talking 
about but in general positivity actually 
is shown to have health benefits it's 
good for your heart it's good for your 
mind it's good for your happiness in 
terms of how you connect with people and 
so when I talk about positivity it's 
let's start to get ourself into a place 
where we are able to have hope and we 
are able to be happier because that is 
actually going to help you show up one 
because positive people have a bigger a 
more positive uh impression of who they 
are and of their lives so that allows 
them to show up more authentically and 
naturally themselves because they're 
okay with themselves um so a lot of the 
things that I talk about with positivity 
is really assessing kind of where you're 
at and then how can we shift you to get 
better positive thinking better positive 
environments you know that's a huge 
thing too where we are a combination of 
the people that we spend time with uh 
there was the so people often quote the 
you know you're the combination of the 
five people that you spend the most time 
with totally which is kind of BS and 
kind of true so that quote was actually 
from like a motivational speaker who had 
the right idea but we've never studied 
the five people that we surround 
ourselves with but we have studied MRIs 
of two people who spend significant 
amount of time together and their brain 
waves started to match which is really 
freaky 
right like so let's you know let's just 
be aware of there's a lot of ways that 
we could change Who We Are are based on 
our environment based on the way we 
think based on the way that you know we 
process based on what we're aware of wow 
and I'm you know for those of you you 
can't see me right now but I've just 
opened up Rachel's book and on page 54 I 
love this so much there's something that 
she put in the book called the 
positivity scale right we all might 
think that we're positive okay but 
really how positive are we and it comes 
by doing a deep dive and do you mind if 
I read these literally out loud because 
I love this okay now what you're 
supposed to do and if you're interested 
in this I'll you know send me an email 
I'll send you Rachel's book whatever it 
is but listen to these it says take a 
look at these questions and jot down 
your answer which can range from one to 
five one is I strongly disagree and five 
is I strongly agree okay I have great 
faith in the future assess yourself I am 
satisfied with my life assess yourself 
others are generally here for me when I 
need them oof that's a biggie assess I 
look forward to the future with hope and 
enthusiasm do you really on the whole I 
am satisfied with myself gave me 
goosebumps i h i feel I have many things 
to be proud of and I generally feel 
confident in myself and it says for each 
response the closer you are to a five 
the more positive you are in that area 
fives across the board great you're 
freaking rainbows and unicorns good on 
you if you're not you're going to have 
to implement the next a couple steps 
that Rachel outlines in her book assess 
your environment and what's your next 
step I 
need after assess create awareness and 
spin so I love the fact that instead of 
saying just be positive here's an 
assessment to tell you really 
honestly how positive are you across 
these things and what that will help you 
to do guys is figure out where you might 
be more negative and projecting that 
negativity which again isn't what any of 
us want to do so after you do that 
assessment what do we do how do we get 
more positive in these areas and it's a 
positive to Rachel's point about feeling 
better and happier with yourself and 
most importantly being more attractive 
to others to friends and significant 
others and dates and dates yeah all of 
that it changes everything so yeah I I 
love the positivity scale because it's 
it's a psychological based you know they 
they've used this in in so much uh 
research and so many different studies 
so it's a something that is legitimized 
uh but it also shows you why have people 
do this first is really assess that 
scale and then do these activities and 
then show me how you changed show me how 
how everything has started to shift 
because I love some Roi uh but yeah 
after after they do this scale it's 
really about figuring out what is 
working within your environment who you 
know how are you working within your 
environment and what's working within 
yourself and what's not working so I I 
go on to have them really take a look at 
the people around them the environments 
that they put themselves in you know 
there's so many areas of our life that 
we can start to shift because even your 
home we were talking about home decor 
before if you're in a place where you 
know there's no light or you know you 
don't like what your your space looks 
like and obviously you know this is 
coming from a space of you everybody has 
certain levels of means and you not 
everybody can move but we could add a 
little bit of something to change even 
just the physical environment that we're 
in um but also the emotional environment 
that we're in who are we allowing in you 
know who is in that space who is 
affecting your brain MRI and how can we 
start to really assess those 
relationships and make sure that they're 
all serving us and then after that I I 
talk about the negativity Journal which 
is something where we become hyper hyper 
aware of the negative thoughts that we 
have um and I know people is another BS 
thing that people quote they're like 
there's 60,000 thoughts a day there's 
880,000 I don't know there's obviously a 
lot of thoughts period I don't like do 
you hear that all the time like one one 
person's like there are like any time 
that someone says something with 
conviction like that I was like you have 
no idea but there's a lot of thoughts 
and a lot of them are negative and so 
the more that we become aware of them 
the more that we track them the more 
that we can start to spin them to become 
a more positive person without becoming 
a toxically positive person you can 
still have bad days you can have you 
know times where you can't see the 
bright side and that's okay you know but 
it's really about what are the things 
that are changeable what is malleable 
and then work on that and then things 
start to really 
shift yeah absolutely and the negativity 
journal and Rachel alluded to that what 
that is and feel free to jump in here 
it's documenting guys like if you feel 
like take that little positivity 
assessment okay if you're like wof I'm 
ones across the board and that's okay I 
love self-awareness right because then 
the next step is how do we change that 
write down in a journal we talk all the 
time about gratitude journals writing 
down the things that we're great for and 
that's amazing and I love that and now 
what we also want you to do is catch 
yourself where you're super negative 
every negative thought that you have 
about yourself your environment or 
another person write it down and then 
what do we do once we write it down once 
you write it down you have to find the 
counter thought and write that down 
because every thought that you have has 
a counter thought so it could be and you 
know this the the typical for women is I 
hate my body or I don't like the way 
this looks or I don't like myself or I'm 
not worthy of love these are I mean 
actually that becomes more Universal but 
all of those can then shift to the 
positive version of it and sometimes you 
can't get from I hate my body to I love 
my body maybe it's I hate my body too I 
accept my body and I appreciate my body 
for what it does for me so there's a lot 
of middle ground because I I think the 
problem is when people say oh just think 
a different thought again it's like the 
xic positivity we were talking about 
earlier it's not possible you know our 
brain can't make the leap if we're so 
far down the negativity train that this 
is where we're at in that hate Zone we 
can't get to love you know it's it's 
it's too far away so find that middle 
ground and write that down and allow 
that to become part of your Mantra 
because the more again it I feel like a 
broken record sometimes with how much I 
talk about awareness but it really is 
awareness is everything once you start 
recognizing oh my gosh wow I thought 
that that that that and that like that's 
that's horrible let's stop thinking like 
that let's catch those thoughts and then 
create that spin so here's a scenario 
that comes up for me at Smart dating 
Academy with my clients let's say you 
know I've had people come in telling me 
okay I'm a four date wonder I'm great 
until the fourth date but then the 
bottom falls out for me like I can't get 
a fifth date now that's a negative 
thought right there how would you help 
that person to spin that thought to 
something positive like I nobody wants 
to date me past four dates the right 
person is going to want to date me on 
date five I love that yeah and then I 
want to find out what the hell is 
happening on those four 
days right enter dating coach like wait 
what's going on and what's going on very 
specific uh number of 
dates I've had everything as I'm sure 
you have happened in 13 years I don't 
know well every time I say man I've 
heard it all I've seen it all something 
new waxed me in the face on my desk that 
day like wait what I've never that 
before um so you know I think positivity 
authenticity these are all ways of 
becoming more relatable what are some 
other what are some key things that you 
would tell us that you might not have 
shared yet about how we can be more 
relatable you know I think that second 
section that communication part and 
inspiration is a whole other whole other 
story and and obviously an important 
part of it but the communication part is 
is such an important element of how we 
show up right now because you know part 
of what I say in in the book is how 
communication is energetic I know we can 
think of the right things to say you and 
I have both seen you know people who 
tell you know just write this or just 
say this on a date or like have these 
lines and it's not they don't work you 
know maybe maybe it's a filler space but 
you can't just memorize what to say it's 
how you say it it's how you show up and 
part of where I think a lot of 
disconnects happen is is we don't show 
up in a way and I we started talking 
about this earlier is that makes people 
feel important and we don't show up in a 
way that makes them feel our presence 
and lets them feel who we are and feel 
that we are invested in this person 
because instead we're distracted by 
everything else around us and that's a 
challenge that I've seen over and over 
again where you know I see cell phones 
out I see people you know together but 
apart because they're just sitting there 
texting and it's really I sound like a 
get off my lawn like I've gotten to that 
age of like a cell phones what are they 
doing with this this technology but it's 
so true because it's it's such an 
amazing part of our lives but it's also 
such an interference in our connections 
and so how often are we really really 
paying attention to each other how often 
are we really committed to I am here and 
I am present and I'm not letting my mind 
wander and I'm definitely not letting my 
thumbs wander to this beautiful 
Contraption yeah and that's hard and it 
requires a and if you start out a 
conversation like you're saying Rachel 
with my goal is to make the other person 
feel important right now and that's your 
singular goal that automatically kind of 
puts your brain in check ideally if 
you're truly invested in that goal and 
knowing that that is a really really 
really important goal here we're talking 
about you know succeeding on dates being 
more relatable hell let's throw in being 
more likable even if you're looking to 
make more friends that you're it sounds 
like making the person across from you 
feel important should be a your number 
one goal is is that right absolutely it 
should be one of I think there's a 
couple goals up there like showing up as 
yourself is a huge part of it but that 
really is such an enormous element of it 
is is really just being attuned to the 
person in front of you and caring enough 
to put the effort in because we don't 
and I get it too you I know you've heard 
this from daters but people get burnt 
out they're tired they're kind of like 
they show up and they're like here's 
another one let me just sit here and 
pray that it's you know not as Terri is 
the last one so they they're not there 
they're not invested the energy is not 
there and it shifts everything it shifts 
the way you show up it shifts everything 
you say and so if anything I just I want 
people to really identify how can they 
be more present and how can they set 
that intention to show up in a way that 
the people feel like they are important 
right and being positive at the same 
time yeah kind of say listen take 
Snippets like you don't have to because 
I think it becomes overwhelming you get 
you talk to someone who is you know 
maybe in a funky state has had a rough 
time of it you know not meeting a lot of 
friends not having great dates so I 
don't want them to think that they have 
to do everything at once because then it 
becomes it just you end up doing nothing 
it's that paralysis uh that comes with 
with so many other things that you could 
focus on so I think you know just focus 
on one thing at a time and then stack it 
stack it and eventually you'll get it 
all together yeah absolutely and in the 
dating role bra how do you how would you 
recommend 
and we want to be authentic right we 
want to be ourselves but then we have to 
walk that tight rope of oversharing as 
well right and this is and I know this 
is always the struggle in your work in 
my work it's like okay you know my ex 
cheated on me and therefore I'm back 
into the dating swamp land again or what 
and when we say be authentic and be 
positive you know I tell my clients 
have a good thing to say about your 
divorce even though it was sucky because 
people need to earn that part of your 
story right and that vulnerability 
without boundaries is just plain over 
sharing so I welcome your thoughts on 
here I completely agree I I I say the 
same thing is that not everybody 
deserves your story not everybody 
deserves all of your story and it comes 
with with intimacy and we're talking 
about emotional intimacy and that does 
not happen in the first couple dates you 
have to get to that place and eventually 
yeah you're going to share it all you 
know there's going to come a time in a 
in the right relationship where they 
know everything about you or whatever 
you know within reason sometimes you 
don't need to ever know everything about 
but it's just really tempering that of 
recognizing that there is a you're 
stepping into the pool you're not diving 
in and so share share for the connection 
if people ask you a question don't lie 
you know if they ask you specifically 
like did they did you get cheated on 
we're not saying like lie about it but 
it doesn't need to be that front and 
center you could have had the worst 
divorce in the world but it doesn't need 
to be front and center so it's really I 
think that tempering and recognizing 
that I do have and I can still show up 
as authentically me without just verbal 
diarrhea because that is not attractive 
to anybody absolutely and and you know 
corollary to that there are questions 
that people might ask you on a date that 
are inappropriate and you don't need to 
answer those questions if somebody ask 
you on Dat one well did you get cheated 
on you can say you know in every 
relationship there are complications and 
there's accountability on both sides so 
that's what I'll tell you about it so 
you can answer things in a way that's 
also comfortable for you right because 
you may not boundar boundaries are fine 
and you don't have to say no comment or 
I'm not going to answer that right 
because that's sort of like 
disconnecting any connection yeah and 
maybe if they're asking really 
inappropriate questions you want to 
disconnect and find a new date right 
you're like oh my God my cake is burning 
I gotta go my cat just jumped down to a 
power line I can't believe it I'm so 
sorry this has been amazing 
gota split I'll call you don't call me 
oh my gosh and you know this is one 
question that I've really wanted to ask 
you how do you if someone feels like and 
you mentioned social anxiety and how 
many of us have social anxiety at this 
point but if we feel like you know I'm 
just kind of socially awkward like how 
can someone can someone overcome that 
and if so 
how yeah yes and so one you know 
sometimes the social awkwardness comes 
from a a personality trait and so those 
are not always you know mutable so 
sometimes but you could be awkward and 
awesome so to one I would just say is 
like like let's just Embrace some of the 
awkward um but in terms of social 
anxiety in terms of you know the fears 
around things some of the best research 
has shown that doing the thing you know 
and it doesn't have to be this again 
we're not diving in just like our 
stories we don't have to dive into the 
deep end we can baby step into the pool 
and we can start to do the things that 
scare us and the best thing that we can 
do in terms of our fear is doing it in 
ways that now prove our brain wrong you 
know cuz basically it's our brain our 
brain on fear is saying don't do that 
because you're going to get hurt you're 
going to die you're going to get you 
know you're going to feel pain whether 
it's emotional or physical pay attention 
to some of the physical pain stuff 
that's always we want to we want to feel 
these fears in certain ways because it 
does protect us but when it comes to 
social things allow yourself to feel 
those elements and recognize that it 
wasn't so bad because our brains then do 
allow us to recognize that that didn't 
happen the worst case scenarios didn't 
exist and now I can do a little bit more 
so push yourself to make that that first 
you know phone call or send the text 
message push yourself to get online push 
yourself to start conversation at you 
know the the coffee shop but then allow 
that to simmer and then push that next 
step and I love that and pushing 
yourself right this is how people get 
over phobias it's exposure therapy right 
if you're afraid of a plane we're gonna 
watch the video of a plane taking off 
and then we're going to finally build up 
to actually getting on the plane and so 
what I want you guys to think about is 
if you feel that awkwardness or that 
fear is do the thing and I will not 
grade you for a response if you say oh 
my gosh I'm a female and I'm terrified 
because I'm old school about sending a 
guy a message first online because if he 
doesn't respond that means I am you know 
destined to be alone forever no I want 
you to send out messages I want you to 
send out three messages today without 
caring if that person ever responds to 
you and all I want you to do is be proud 
of yourself for having done it that's it 
and know that if they don't respond oh 
my God wait hold on I'm still alive I 
didn't die I didn't vaporize an alien 
ship didn't come and suck me up because 
what I feared it's like okay it's fine I 
did it I was just supposed to do the 
task we're not grading you on the 
response so get yourself to the place 
and if you feel socially awkward go out 
say hi to someone right you can say hi 
there my name's Bella I'm recovering you 
know socially awkward person and I'm 
here post I am so glad to be here and if 
somebody said that to me I'd probably 
laugh and want to talk to them same here 
I love all of that absolutely perfect 
Rachel you are the best thank you so 
much for sharing your wisdom and sharing 
your precious time I know how incredibly 
busy you are and you're amazing and I am 
going to work on my own relatability 
today I think you're pretty good it's 
always good to see you and I'm so happy 
to be here so thank 
you 
