a person that likes you won't leave you 
guessing why because people make time 
for the things and the people they want 
we talked about this in the last podcast 
but there are patterns and there's a 
very consistent behavior that way that 
people behave who want to be in 
relationships when I hear that somebody 
is too busy and that oh you know if I 
start hearing excuses from somebody like 
oh he's just so busy with work and he's 
just so busy and you know what he can 
only fit me in this one time this month 
I I don't I don't buy it we look at it 
is when somebody is ready to date they 
will move mountains to be with you even 
if they do have that crazy work project 
or they have something going on they 
will figure out a small pocket of time 
even if just bringing you a cup of 
coffee we have seen it over and over 
again but someone will always make time 
think about it are you ever ever ever 
too busy to communicate with someone you 
love never you prioritize it no matter 
what 
