most of those people who reach out to me 
the number one reason why they are 
meditating is because they're working on 
thems because they're ending a 
relationship or they're wanting to find 
a relationship people don't usually just 
decide oh I'm going to meditate because 
it's the thing to do just like with 
Fitness if you're already kind of trim 
or you're happy with how you look maybe 
you're not in shape but you don't really 
feel any pain Point you're not always 
likely if you don't have that habit to 
work out well it's the same with 
meditation if you're not really 
experiencing extenuating stress or pain 
or anything in your life you're not 
really likely to just sit down and want 
to meditate you know for self-care 
there's usually a very important reason 
and that happens to be for relationships 
you will notice that you become so 
confident and it makes sense because you 
are tuning into yourself you feel more 
tuned into other people so you're not 
really focused on the extraneous you're 
you're focused on a deeper meaning 
