this has been a really special week for 
me personally for those of you who might 
have been following me on Facebook or 
Instagram you know that May 17th Andy my 
husband and I celebrated our 26 year 
wedding anniversary people ask us all 
the time like you guys got married so 
young you've made it work for 26 years 
so we sat down and really thought about 
things we thought would help you at a 
meta level I realized that over all this 
time being married we've learned a whole 
lot about what it takes to be a good 
partnership and I've learned a 
tremendous amount about how to be a good 
partner and I realize over over the 
years there are all these lessons that 
have come into my mind and it just 
seemed to make sense to put it all 
together and put it all in one place so 
that I can relearn it and keep it top of 
mind and teach our kids the those 
learnings Etc 
[Music] 
