[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm bellagande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back I'm so excited 
to talk to you today and to introduce my 
incredible guest Ms Gabrielle Hartley 
Gabrielle is first of all just a 
freaking amazing human being she's a 
friend but professionally she's a 
nationally recognized online mediator 
she's a divorce attorney she's the 
co-chair of the American Bar Association 
Association mediation committee she's a 
tedx speaker and most importantly she's 
the author of the book and the topic 
that we're going to talk about today 
called Gabrielle tell us the title of 
your book the secret to getting along 
and why it's easier than you think well 
what an intro for you Gabrielle let's 
talk about the secrets to getting along 
and why is it easier than you think 
because sometimes I'm not sure it's that 
easy to get along so all I didn't know I 
didn't say it's easy I said it's easier 
than you think right so it's like not 
impossible you can do we can all do it 
better right so I'm talking I'm not 
talking about making every relationship 
like perfect I am talking about like 
perfect did you like my valley girl 
there I'm talking about 
making your relationships that are 
dysfunctional more functional your 
relationships that are already 
functional even better okay so I love 
that let's talk about getting 
dysfunctional to functional how do we do 
that like tell us maybe for context give 
us a little bit about how did you start 
doing this work how did you decide to 
write this book okay well I'll give you 
the the short version so when I grew up 
my parents divorced when I was nine and 
my brother was six and they did it even 
though it was the early 80s they did it 
in a very mindful way they went to 
mediators and they brought us all in and 
they really modeled getting along even 
when they disagreed right and 
then I went to law school and I took 
family law passed fail I was like I am 
never going to be a divorce lawyer this 
is like the least interesting topic and 
I am done with it but as luck would have 
it then I wound up working for a judge 
in divorce court in New York City where 
I helped to resolve nearly a thousand 
high conflict crazy cases and I found 
number one that I absolutely loved it I 
was really good at it I didn't I didn't 
plan to do it it's just it just worked 
out that way and I saw how much people 
thought about nonsense and how much the 
system really 
stirred up more conflict than there even 
was to begin with so 
when I left working for the judge I 
started my lawn mediation firm and 
that's when I wrote my first book better 
apart the radically positive way to 
separate so anyway I write better apart 
and then 
I start to think about and you know 
living in the world how could you not 
think about how much conflict there is 
everywhere every day wherever we turn 
and I've decided to write a book called 
the secret to getting along and why it's 
easier than you think 
for all of us to use in our lives at 
home at work dating with your neighbors 
in our lives because the same 
skills that you need to get through and 
move Beyond a divorce any kind of high 
conflict or even mid to high conflict 
situation can really benefit from 
okay well tell us I mean I'm sure dear 
listener you like all of us like 
Gabrielle like me we have relationships 
that are good and functional and the 
people we love and then we have the 
people that might cause us more friction 
in our lives where we're like oh we see 
their name come through on our cell 
phones we're like oh God do I have to 
pick this up What's it gonna be that 
person that gives you butterflies in 
your stomach because butterflies are 
anxiety I was gonna say not in a good 
way butterflies and those people you 
know sometimes hopefully not people 
you're dating but sometimes we are 
related to people who make us anxious 
but we don't want to cut ties with you 
might have a very difficult parent or 
sibling that you don't want to cut out 
of your life so you have to figure out 
how to make stronger boundaries around 
yourself so that you're protected so 
that you have almost like I think of it 
as like that myelin sheath for anybody 
here who um I studied bio you know like 
a protective so that you can stay safe 
emotionally and not get impacted when 
that person who you have 
strong affection for comes at you and 
causes those butterflies to escalate and 
make you feel actually sick inside and 
for you to become destabilized because 
of their destabilizing actions or 
behaviors or what they say and do oh my 
gosh okay give us the formula I'm sure 
everybody's listening with baited Breath 
Right Now how do we deal with that 
difficult 
co-worker boss 
sibling neighbor cousin parent child 
that is basically putting a knot in our 
stomach and we just are having problems 
getting along what can we do okay so and 
I know Bella you saw my TED Talk and if 
anyone hasn't listened to it I have a 
a very basic model that is 
called the yes method and there are 
three steps to it it is owning your role 
now your role may be very small but your 
Ro Your Role is very likely a small 
destructive behavioral tendency or habit 
that you might have you might 
catastrophize you might minimize you 
might steamroll I mean there's a bunch 
of there's a whole Suite of things we 
all do that make things worse right yeah 
that's number one number two we've got 
to get to the E which is what's the 
emotional story what do we want or need 
here 
not the position what's the behavior 
that we want to stop but what do we 
actually need at our core and I'm going 
to circle back to that difficult person 
and then number three is s which is for 
shelving or pausing heated conversations 
Okay so 
let's take so they those three things 
the Y the E and the S you don't 
necessarily do them in this particular 
order that's just a nice acronym to 
remember okay okay got it got it go we 
resolve our conflicts by understanding 
what we're fighting about so in terms of 
let's say you have a difficult father 
let's just say and you love your dad and 
you want to stay close to your dad but 
he's a nut and when he calls you you're 
totally dysregulated you can't 
concentrate on whatever you're supposed 
to do and so you know what you might 
want is you might want to say when you 
pick on the phone oh my gosh dad stop 
calling me you're interfering with you 
like how I'm holding the phone like it's 
the 80s I do your interfere 
interfering with my day you might just 
want to say like stop calling you might 
have this instinct to just you know yell 
back at him or cut him out or whatever 
it is 
but you need to take that pause shelve 
that conversation take that break and 
ask yourself why do you want that why 
and you and what you're really looking 
for is two things you want you want to 
feel peaceful right that's one thing 
that you want and another thing you want 
is to maintain a relationship right but 
you know you can't have the relationship 
that you imagined having right because 
he's a nut because he's a nut and so all 
you can do is control your behavior 
which is back to the why right so what 
are you gonna do well during the work 
day maybe you're gonna if if he starts 
calling you at eight in the morning you 
might say I will talk to you after work 
I love you but I can't talk until after 
work and then you're going to go to your 
phone and maybe block his calls until 
after work I'm not suggesting you do 
that if there's some emergency medical 
thing you have to give him access to you 
but other than that block is closed so 
you are creating that shelving mechanism 
that pause so that you can de-escalate 
and then at the end of the day you can 
have a better thought out plan on how 
you're going to deal with that difficult 
person in this case you're nutty dad 
okay so at that point shelving that 
heated conversation if your dad's 
blowing up your phone and you're at work 
basically say with love I can't talk to 
you now right I'll call you after work 
have a great day look forward to 
catching up send a nice message and then 
block if you need to now when you call 
your dad after work 
what happens 
how do you put yourself in the right 
mindset at that point so first of all 
you've had a whole day to cool down you 
have a whole day to not think about your 
dad do your work have lunch with your 
friends whatever it is that you're doing 
during your day maybe if you're so lucky 
maybe take a run or do something 
exercise wise before you unblock him and 
then maybe you can control when the next 
contact is by you calling him that will 
turn that will tend to de-escalate right 
maybe he'll even not pick up your call 
now right but at least you've reached 
out and you can even say hey just trying 
you back hope you had a great day love 
you 
and that's it and then most of the time 
somebody who's really high conflict 
unless there's a particular thing 
happening their attention after eight 
hours is most likely going to ship to a 
new person and you don't even have to 
worry about them continuing on you 
because they just might have been in 
that sort of Mind space 
thanks yes absolutely and and so at that 
point you've done you've basically oh to 
some extent you've owned your own piece 
in it it's like okay if I engage with 
you now I'm not going to be the best 
version of myself so I'm going to shelve 
it and my emotional need the E part is I 
need to be peaceful and balanced during 
my day so when I pick up the phone and 
call my dad hopefully cooler heads have 
prevailed on both sides and then we can 
stick to the issue at hand but now what 
if he's still incendiary and says for 
example you know 
um I really I'm really upset with you 
that you aren't coming to Thanksgiving 
this year and you're going to your 
husband's place 
and you can say 
I hear that you're really upset with me 
and I do not like disappointing you 
that's it 
and then what's he gonna say Bella well 
does that mean you're gonna come no 
you're gonna still do what you want to 
do but you're just going to hear how he 
feels 
and that I was going to say it's really 
important to understand why the other 
person is acting the way they're acting 
of course 
we can't be in other people's heads 
it might feel like the reason your dad's 
acting like that is because he's trying 
to control you but maybe he just wants a 
feeling of family 
right 
and so you just say I'm sorry to 
disappoint you maybe next week and offer 
an alternative next week why don't we go 
out for dinner why don't you come for 
dinner why don't I come to you for 
dinner next year you know whatever it is 
or I'll come for whatever other holiday 
you your family might celebrate 
and I think to your point I'm going to 
talk about what a Smart dating Academy 
tenant here and we talk about assuming 
positive intent and to your point right 
it is my dad is being controlling and 
when we go down that Branch right we can 
spin out of control exactly there he 
goes there he goes again and that's 
right if you own your reaction and say 
hold on Bella if this was me hold on 
what's another story that could be 
happening maybe your dad values family 
and he misses you and he just wants to 
see you and seeing you in your time 
makes him feel important then I 
automatically say oh you know what I get 
that he's older and he's isolated and 
there's not a lot of people around him 
that are making him feel important at 
this point because he's retired so it 
automatically takes me down 10 notches 
great temperature back down so that I 
can call him from a place of empathy and 
understanding even if he is being a 
controlling Jack hole which hopefully 
he's not but I have now brought my own 
temperature down when he says I really 
want you to come it's like Dad I know 
that family is so important to you and 
it's so important to me and you're so 
important to me I'm not going to be able 
to make it there on Christmas day but 
what I could do is we could be there 
Christmas Eve how does that sound 
because you're important to me exactly 
and sometimes you're just gonna have to 
disappoint the person but you're gonna 
give them an alternative the good enough 
alternative the Goldilocks alternative 
and hopefully your father will be 
magnanimous but if not he he may not 
show that he's satisfied enough because 
of Pride or whatever other reasons but 
but by assuming the best 
and doing just you you couldn't I 
couldn't have laid out the script better 
than you did that's exactly what you 
need to do and this very formula helps 
us in all of our relationships you know 
why didn't somebody call me back they 
must not like me well maybe maybe not 
maybe they were really busy 
right exactly well we don't call them 50 
times we give them space and let them 
call you when it's time 
and if maybe they they don't call you 
soon enough for your liking maybe that's 
not the person for you right so like 
reading signals is also an important 
point of getting along 
100 and having empathy right so often 
even in the dating World somebody might 
cancel on us two hours before Oh my son 
is really sick and now if my self-esteem 
is feeling a little bruised and I've 
been ghosted for the last three weeks by 
four different guys I might go oh my God 
you're lying all these guys just lie but 
instead if you can for that moment take 
yourself out of yourself own that's your 
past but I'm not going to bring it into 
my present and say Let Me Be empathic at 
this point my gosh that's awful I so 
appreciate that you want to be there for 
your son I would love to reschedule with 
you is there a date that works or let me 
know what works then you've been 
empathic because it's 50 50 at that 
point if you take out your frustration 
of the four previous people on this 
current person who in a sense is an 
innocent bystate Stander exactly right 
exactly and so blown it right and so 
you just again laid out the whole the 
whole yes concept Your Role so 
when you're in a situation let's just 
say it's a dating situation and you're 
feeling some some of your feels notice 
what your behaviors are right do you 
tend to catastrophize in your mind all 
these guys are jerks right so you 
minimize and do you take too much 
garbage nobody's a jerk I'm not worth 
anything you can cancel on me five times 
in a row I don't care right are you 
minimizing you're catastrophizing you 
know are are you doing there's a whole 
set of things that we do that get in the 
way of our success in all of our 
relationships are you steamrollering 
somebody who really maybe doesn't want 
to go out well maybe we can go here what 
about this and you keep throwing things 
at them and you're not giving them the 
space to come to you 
exactly exactly and I love that you're 
talking about these things right and 
these are things that we call remember 
your thoughts determine your destiny and 
if you're bringing all of your stuff and 
what I think are called cognitive 
distortions right like you're 
catastrophizing oh my God if he canceled 
on me I'm never gonna find love okay how 
did you get from one to one million 
seven hundred thousand at that point 
that was pretty easy it was pretty easy 
for them though it's pretty easy because 
we can spin ourselves down these holes 
so the why in the yes method is 
controlling your stuff and y'all believe 
me this is a lot harder than you think 
it is and we all have stuff like don't 
judge yourself for your stuff like I've 
got stuff Bella's got stuff like the 
whole every if you are a human you have 
stuff and it doesn't mean baggage it 
just means behavioral tendencies that 
are destructive that we developed as 
child children maybe our parents had 
them maybe we had 
trauma maybe not like terrible trauma 
but whatever things we went through as 
kids and these were how we coped so when 
you find yourself upset ask yourself am 
I doing some of these things and then 
just take a pause I'm not suggesting 
that you should suddenly become this 
total Zen Buddha if you're actually like 
a highly easily stimulated person but 
just that you take that pause and you 
think about hmm what's another positive 
reason that this person might be acting 
this way or refraining from acting in a 
way that I wish he or she would be yeah 
absolutely so I love this so let's talk 
now about different scenarios you know I 
let's say let's say you walk into a date 
and your date clearly unbeknownst to you 
because you have not been at Smart 
dating Academy 
and you don't know how to connect with 
someone versus disconnect and you're not 
screening people the right way so you're 
still going out on bad dates right so we 
have a whole formula to prevent you 
going on bad dates but so let's say you 
sit down and this person is negative or 
they start spewing some political stuff 
that you don't agree with or they make 
some terrible comments like how do you 
is this a situation Gabrielle that you 
can turn around can you get along with 
this person 
so I think the first thing you have to 
decide is what is your goal for this 
evening I mean my advice would be to not 
just leave and be rude you always want 
to be polite and I would just let their 
words that disagree with you dissolve 
around you like the air because it's not 
worth it this is not somebody I have a 
whole section in the secrets to getting 
along hashtag relationship goals like 
how important is this person to you this 
person you're never gonna see again 
you're never gonna talk to again but you 
don't know who they are they might be 
the parent of your friend your kid's 
friend they might be somebody I mean 
your neighbor you have no idea it's 
always good to put your best foot 
forward and then to make a graceful exit 
when the time is right you don't want to 
leave before the coffee comes if it 
feels like you're both going to have 
coffee if if he or she is talking about 
something that you find 
distasteful or unpleasant try to 
gracefully turn the conversation to 
another topic you might even say 
let's talk about something else so that 
way you're drawing a fine line you're 
being clear you're setting a boundary 
there it's clear that there's no love 
connection but you're you're there if 
you made it I'm not sure how you got all 
the way to dinner and you haven't 
established this because I would say you 
should first have a quick date 
before but I haven't gone to the Smart 
dating Academy so I don't I don't know 
Bella what would you say about that 
yeah I mean I like we have four steps 
before you get to an actual date but you 
need to vet this person in a better way 
I mean the only people that are going on 
really disappointing dates right are the 
people that aren't following a 
step-by-step methodology so you're right 
have a quick date with somebody maybe 
it's just a phone call maybe it's a 
video chat but really kind of at least 
kick the tires before you even agree to 
spending an hour with somebody because I 
will tell you guys what when you walk in 
and you're like oh game over an hour is 
an excruciatingly long it is I will tell 
you it counts to three thousand six 
hundred okay there are 60 minutes and 60 
seconds in each minute 60 times 60 is 3 
600 seconds of your life are going to be 
spent with this person so it pays to do 
some vetting before you agree even to 
that one hour a hundred percent and so 
to get along do your vetting I think 
that's actually the best tip of all here 
if you find yourself there and somehow 
you're in a situation you know and it's 
not the most Pleasant just be polite 
that's really the best thing you can do 
and then get out of there 
yeah and one of the things I love that 
you say just taking a step back is that 
conflict doesn't have to be bad let's 
talk 
definitely not conflict is what makes us 
think right conflict is conflict is why 
we have when we have teenagers that's 
why God made teenagers so that we can 
learn more about ourselves in the world 
because they're the best at calling 
everything we say and everything we do 
into question conflict 
when done skillfully and actually 
move all of us in a better Direction 
because we're thinking more holistically 
more globally we're thinking of 
more perspectives more points of view we 
tend especially when we live a 
sort of closed off life we tend to be 
very narrow in how we perceive things 
and I see this all the time in my 
divorce practice people have very clear 
ideas about how things are supposed to 
go and what's really interesting to me 
is that sometimes couples who really 
don't get along very well sometimes they 
actually share the same narrow 
perspective because they've lived in 
their little world together right but 
now that they're going to be separating 
they're going to be bombarded with a 
whole new world of perspectives as they 
start to explore and meet new people 
wow and then what happens exactly so 
conflict when done well 
is really something that we should 
really all welcome into our lives and 
not run from it but when conflict is not 
done well I I hate conflict I'm a very 
conflict diverse person actually too but 
you know there's conflict everywhere and 
I don't shy away from relationships with 
people that I disagree with and that's 
why I'm very passionate about that when 
I have a relationship be it a friend a 
colleague someone even a neighbor 
I'm very comfortable having hard 
conversations in fact I find 
conversations that are hard to be the 
most compelling complicated people and 
complicated relationships that's 
probably why I love doing divorce 
mediation so much right they draw me in 
because there's nothing I want to do 
more than help people resolve them and 
when I'm part of them I love nothing 
more than finding that narrow meeting of 
the minds point the the point where we 
actually don't have to agree to disagree 
or as my son sometimes says to me 
disagree to disagree 
we can actually agree we can get to a 
point where we reach a consensus 
oh man that's so important and you know 
if you're dating somebody okay that's 
gone through divorce 
and they have a difficult X 
is there a way to get along better with 
the X in this situation like what do you 
do especially when people share kids 
there's inevitable exposure you're going 
to have to somebody's ex right so it 
really depends I hesitate to give a 
broad brush stroke 
response to that because sometimes the x 
is so toxic it's just best to steer 
clear yeah other times you 
can get along better with the X than 
your new girlfriend or boyfriend did and 
you might be able to help their 
relationship along 
um because maybe you and the ex are both 
really organized and you can do 
scheduling better or something like that 
I would say the most important thing is 
to not step on the other person's toes 
don't start going to the kids doctor's 
appointments instead of the parent the 
actual parent there's no way to get your 
ex your your new boyfriend or girlfriend 
drawn into court that if you start 
playing mommy or daddy right and even if 
your intentions are great and they 
usually are great I had a client who was 
out there dating and her ex-husband had 
remarried somebody and it was prime time 
for the daughter and the stat mom said 
to the daughter let's go prom dress 
shopping oh God yeah no not the way to 
get along maybe what you can do if 
you're the new person dealing with an ex 
even if you do get along just say hey I 
realize you're super busy if there's 
anything I can do to help with the prom 
Extravaganza you can count on me you 
know what else you can say let's say you 
don't have a daughter and let's say you 
get along kind of a well well with the 
ex you might even be able to say again 
this really is Case by case but you 
might say 
I don't want to step on your toes but I 
would love to come when you pick out the 
prom dress and I promise to be really 
quiet and to give you three or five 
hundred dollars towards the outfit I 
don't know like something like that if 
you really want to go over for the 
wedding dress like there's ways to do it 
so that you're you're you are deferring 
to the other person's 
um position you're not playing mom 
you're just being like the friend and I 
I don't think there's anything wrong 
with that I as the mother of three sons 
um you know I hope somebody lets me pick 
out a dress if my boys marry girls who 
wear dresses exactly exactly that's 
really that's really lovely I know a 
good friend of mine is a columnist in 
Chicago Heidi Stevens and she writes the 
most beautiful article she's divorced 
and from her ex-husband both are now 
remarried and she wrote about how his 
ex-wife even though she and her ex 
didn't get along and clearly they're 
divorced but how the new wife and her 
have mended this relationship such that 
they're all better than ever yeah Heidi 
said I'm the mom on Halloween because 
I'm a working mom that's pulled in 100 
directions I'm a journalist I'll buy the 
costumes right at Walmart for Halloween 
but her axes new wife didn't have any 
kids and was very crafty and so she 
messaged Heidi and said would it be okay 
exactly you know if I sewed the kids 
Halloween costumes and Heidi was like 
okay it would be amazing and it was a 
win-win-win because there was an offer 
this new stepmom was so respectful knew 
how to stay in her Lane what she was 
good at where Heidi could use some help 
asked permission Heidi was a big enough 
person to go I want what's best for my 
kids exactly thank you so much and wrote 
a call about this and it was so resonant 
to people in Chicago that read this it's 
like oh my gosh she can be part of the 
solution and Heidi was like I had to put 
my own ego in check and say oh my gosh 
this woman is not trying to step on my 
toes why wouldn't I let someone else 
love my kids right and I mean not 
everybody can do that and not everybody 
has an ex who is married to somebody who 
sounds as wonderful as Heidi's exes 
exactly but I mean oh my gosh what a 
wonderful story I love that and that's 
that's sort of where I was going with 
the prom dress the wedding dress just 
ask be respectful stay in your lane and 
and all you can do is your best not 
everybody's going to take your bid but 
you can try 
yeah absolutely and back to the conflict 
thing guys here's what I want to tell 
you this is how I coach my clients at 
SDA where like look at conflict as 
imagine you're a rock climber 
and every time you're you're trying to 
climb this Summit and every time you're 
at Point a you know you've got to get up 
to point B right and good well-handled 
conflict is like getting to the next 
point on the mountain or the summit if 
you navigate the treacherous path well 
you're going to take that relationship 
to a better place I have sister-in-laws 
I have a brother I have parents we all 
live within two miles of each other we 
had a family business I've been married 
for 25 years with two teenagers and 
having these rules of engagement number 
one and this rubric around conflict has 
turned our family into something so 
positive in fact my sister-in-law and I 
talk and she said where did you learn 
this like how did your parents teach you 
this they said my parents didn't teach 
us this we learned it by fire we learned 
it by fire my brother and I were both in 
a family business and we realized okay 
we've got to keep our employees our 
clients and our family together in this 
canoe so you become Adept at a young age 
of saying conflict is inevitable in any 
honest relationship I'm gonna say that 
again 
is inevitable for any relationship that 
is authentic if there are two people 
that are living in a space together 
working on a project together have a 
goal together whatever it is and if 
there's no conflict somebody is giving 
in 
that's right and that is a big problem 
by the way acquiescence 
without being honest is a really big 
problem and and 
again I know I sound like this hippie 
Guru person but forgive yourself if 
you're a yes person but but stop it 
because then you wind up being known as 
passive aggressive you say yes you mean 
no but you haven't given yourself that 
pause to really figure out what you want 
I've had this happen so many times in 
divorce mediations before I would spell 
out the rules to my clients 
somebody would give in and it would go 
so quickly but then we realized no no no 
no I don't want anybody to say what they 
want what they're okay with until 
they've had a time to take a step back 
to think about it to really marinate on 
it 
honesty with yourself is absolutely 
essential for the conflict to go well 
that couldn't be more true right and in 
a sense you have to be self-aware and 
put the mirror back to yourself right 
and that's really hard for people I mean 
it's I feel like Bella you and I really 
we got the saying no down pretty well 
with a lot of people don't and it's a 
real skill so and there's a way to say 
no in a way that doesn't hurt people's 
feelings right but also respects where 
you are right I would love to do that 
however I am so strapped for time I love 
what you're doing maybe I can support in 
this other way right if somebody asks 
you to be honest sometimes you don't 
want to be on instead of saying yes 
begrudgingly and then being mad at the 
person 
turn that mirror around to your point 
you're the one that said yes 
right but like some people don't some 
people don't know their minds enough to 
say no in the moment so I'm saying take 
a beat say let me get back to you give 
me till Friday 
I'm not sure what I think there's a 
whole script that you can develop and 
just pick some little catch phrases out 
for yourself so that you have words to 
use to buy yourself time and then 
actually go back and if the answer is no 
say no the world will not crumble if you 
say no you will be resentful if you say 
yes 
exactly I had a client and this is a 
funny story who you know is very cordial 
and polite and was talking to a new 
friend of hers that was sick right let's 
say this friend had you know stage one 
breast cancer like something terrible 
but they weren't really great friends 
but my client said to her is there 
anything I can do for you like send a 
dinner like let me know and this new 
friend said well sure if you'd like to 
send us dinner tonight that'd be great 
and now my client was vexed at this she 
was annoyed and when I had this 
conversation I'm like well okay why are 
you she's like can I just talk to you 
about this situation like I just need to 
vent I said absolutely and so she's like 
I offered this and I mean it was just 
being socially graceful like and but I 
barely know this person but she she took 
me up on it they said well you've got to 
own your part in saying if you offered 
most people would say no no no we're 
really good thank you but there are 
those people that will be like well if 
you're offering who am I to say no right 
we all know those people and so this 
person they're called the New Yorkers 
and they'll say sure send me dinner I'll 
send you exactly what I want and so my 
client was a little vexed at this I'm 
like okay this is a learning moment for 
you from an Integrity standpoint I'm 
like what is going to make you feel good 
well I'm gonna send the dinner even 
though it's gonna cost me 100 bucks and 
I think it's so stupid because we don't 
even know each other I'm like okay but 
you're gonna live in Integrity so she 
sent the dinner I'm like be proud of 
yourself for being a person of Integrity 
okay and it's okay to feel your feelings 
but in the future be mindful of saying 
yes or offering things that you don't 
really want ask yourself do I really 
want to say let me know if there's any 
anything you need like a dinner and if 
somebody takes you up on that the only 
person you can blame at that moment is 
yourself 
there is a woman who 
I I knew for some time and when I was 
having one of my children she said she 
wrote me a card and she said and she 
makes this particular cake that I love 
and she said any day anytime that you 
want this cake I will make a few that is 
your present oh 
so 
I called her for the cake and the first 
time I called it wasn't a good date and 
then I called again for the cake I 
wasn't letting it go I'm the crazy 
person I am I am from Brooklyn and 
Staten Island so I'm just taking a pass 
on there you know 
Gabrielle's like oh wait that's me why 
Illinois well right exactly so wait so 
three times I asked three times she 
didn't deliver the cake so she's dead to 
me 
wow right because why would you offer a 
cake if you're not gonna make it but 
then what happened was years later I was 
having a big birthday and my husband 
cooks really well and he said what would 
you like for dinner and I included the 
name of this person's cake and we 
haven't seen this person in a really 
long time and he said obviously because 
she's dead to you exactly exactly like 
I'd see her at social events I would you 
know she would make cordial conversation 
but like anyway so and I'm sure she 
thought I was like crazy calling her for 
the cake so anyway so it's my birthday 
birthday and he's and it's years and 
years have gone by and my husband says 
I was gonna make you whatever kind of 
cake I said no I want this cake now you 
all know how crazy I am 
so you called her a fourth time so he 
Tracked Down the recipe and she made him 
promise never to share it with anybody 
but I have the recipe and he made me the 
cake and he makes it all the time and 
it's fabulous 
oh my God that what kind of cake is it I 
feel like I can't say in case she 
listens to the podcast it's just 
chocolate cake it's chocolate cake but 
it is the best chocolate cake and we 
cannot share the recipe but low-key 
you can 
I'm not answering but low-key so 
Gabrielle's offering to all of you eat a 
chocolate cake 
excited me 
and I want you all to take her up on it 
and message her multiple times 
but this is so funny how these little 
things that we can do and we do these 
you know and because some of us 
especially women were programmed to be 
nice even though we don't want to do it 
she didn't want to make the cake you 
just want to make the cake we're not 
friends fine we're not friends I felt 
like writing her a note saying like 
we're not friends but I just got the 
recipe and we're good now I like her 
again I have the recipe we're good 
that's better than the cake it's the 
gift that keeps on giving 
that's how I get along absolutely stalk 
and get the recipe that's Gabriel's next 
book 
stock the chocolate cake so I think look 
I'm obviously not a person who runs from 
conflict 
but I generally get along with people 
and I would say you know what once once 
we're friends that's it you know once 
you enter that Vortex there's no leaving 
unless you don't unless you don't bake 
for me unless you promise me something 
and you don't deliver in that case 
you're dead to me but and and I think 
that this is really important because if 
you find yourself to be that person I 
have definitely been that person to be 
like oh my God call me if you need 
anything right even though I've got 17 
bajillion things going on and now after 
helping that client through that 
situation it has made me turn the mirror 
to myself and say only offer things that 
I will do because I learn through 
coaching my clients situations it's like 
wow that could happen to anybody so I 
need to get to people I need to be more 
polite I I actually lost a friend maybe 
we should maybe you have to cut this out 
we're not cutting anything we're not 
cutting anything I had a friend who I 
really adored and we are still friends 
but um she had a big life event and I 
knew I couldn't be there and I was a 
little bit too direct and I was like in 
the moment I was like I know I can't 
come and she was like and she's Southern 
and she's like wow you didn't even 
pretend and I was like well I know I 
can't I so I've had to learn to be a 
little less direct to your point yeah 
and saying things saying things take a 
beat take a beat and know how would and 
this is another thing we teach a lot at 
Smart dating Academy because we're going 
on dates right it's like how would you 
feel if you received the message that 
you just gave exactly exactly and that's 
the definition of empathy right I do the 
same thing with um the private divorce 
solution it's like okay this is what you 
want what if we flip it around and they 
get what you're asking for does that 
feel good or does something about that 
feel not quite right 
right and it's delivering a message to 
someone in a way that you would feel 
okay about receiving and take a beat 
before you you know because in today's 
world God loved therapy God loved 
boundaries okay but we're so quick at 
this point to be like you've violated a 
boundary I can't do that that's over 
time that you and again 
assume positive intent nobody's trying 
to violate your boundaries they don't 
know your invisible boundaries only you 
know where your spray-painted bright 
white lines are I can't see your 
invisible bright white line so come from 
a place of love and say that person 
doesn't know that I don't take calls 
after 6 PM that person doesn't know 
whatever it is that I really want to 
come to her party but I'm not able to 
right so it's exactly it's 
being kind in your Communications to 
people I think is such an underrated 
skill and as we move forward in the 
workplace right and as we want to get 
promoted as we want to build new 
friendships new relationships 
understanding how to say yes in the 
right way and understand how to say no 
in a way that doesn't turn people off is 
is going to be so crucial to our growth 
and we have to keep growing we have to 
keep learning and we have to be open to 
continuing to learn 
oh I'm so with you well are there any 
other things that you want to tell us 
about you know your secrets to getting 
along making it easier any last gems you 
want to drop on us so I would just say 
that if anyone has any questions 
particularly if you pre-order a copy of 
the secret to getting along and I'll 
give Bella all the information 
between now and May 15th and then you go 
on to the website which Bella will 
include in the show notes at 
gabriellehartly.com 
um I'm going to be hosting a live 
webinar where you can submit questions 
and I can I will be answering them live 
for you and if you're going through a 
separation or a divorce or if you're 
getting married and you're looking for 
prenup mediation just go to 
gabriellehartly.com 
and con and hit the contact or give me a 
call and let's talk 
well Gabrielle thank you so much for 
being on congratulations on your future 
best-selling book that has been called a 
must read you guys by Malcolm Gladwell 
Daniel pink Adam Grant and Susan Keynes 
I mean like wow that's amazing Gabrielle 
so I can't wait to read your book and 
I'm sure smart daters will all want to 
read your book as well we'll put a link 
to it in the show notes so as Gabrielle 
said you can pre-order it and join her 
free webinar and um for those of you 
that this resonated with and you feel 
like gosh I could use some help in my 
messaging maybe that's text messaging in 
the apps with your emails how you're 
comporting yourself on dates if you're 
not getting the second third and fourth 
dates and you're scratching your head 
maybe it's time for a consultation maybe 
you should go to smartdatingacademy.com 
and fill out form where we can actually 
help you to get along with your dates in 
a better way so you're getting the 
second third fourth and fifth date with 
the people you want so Gabrielle again 
thank you so much for being here your 
gift to the world and 
um smart daters until next week find 
someone that you can get along with in a 
better way and let us know how you do 
that DM us put it in the comments on 
Instagram this week we'll be reading 
them all until next week we'll see you 
then 
