[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back to the podcast 
and this is a really common topic that 
we help with when we're coaching our 
one-on-one clients through our practice 
and it's what happens when you've had a 
date that you think is a good date 
um and then you don't hear from the 
person what do you do and this is 
primarily we coach men and women I hear 
a lot of this from both genders like 
what happens like I thought we had a 
really good date and it could be a video 
date it could be a glass of wine it 
could be we took a walk it could be 
we've been on four dates right and what 
I want you to think about doing is 
sending what we call a nudge test a text 
especially if it's in the very early 
phases of dating what is that 
so it's a text which basically nudges 
the person into an action so let's say I 
went out on a date with somebody I'm 
going to tell you actually a better 
story about a client of mine that is was 
super shy 
and she said I'm the shyest person 
you'll ever meet I have a tremendous 
amount of social anxiety I can get up on 
a stage for work and I can present to 
300 people in my business but if you 
tell me to go into a birthday party or I 
don't know anybody I'm going to sit in 
the driveway for 30 minutes trying to 
amp up my courage to walk in by myself 
I'm like but you know the person who's 
having the party and she said yeah but 
that doesn't matter I don't know anybody 
else there and so I am so in my head 
anxious okay so she's very shy very 
anxious we put her online she goes out 
on a date with the guy who she meets at 
Starbucks on a Sunday and she came back 
from the date she's like it was actually 
nice because if I'm shy and anxious he 
was more shy and more anxious like I why 
was the conversational Chatterbox during 
this date so we were giggling about it 
they met at Starbucks for coffee so very 
low investment and she thought it was 
great so now Monday rolls around 
Tuesday rolls around we don't hear 
anything from him by Wednesday she's 
devastated she's new to dating she's 
like I told you this wouldn't work I'm 
too shy I'm too awkward all of the Mind 
monkeys came out so I said to her I want 
you to send him a nudge text and she's 
like what's that I said well 
you don't know what he's thinking just 
because he hasn't messaged you doesn't 
mean he doesn't like you maybe he didn't 
think you liked him and he didn't want 
to hear no again and so he didn't 
message you because he got into his own 
head thinking there's no way she liked 
me I'm so shy I'm so anxious I'm so 
awkward so I had her say hey 
Alan it was so fun meeting up at 
Starbucks on Sunday I drove by there and 
thought of you today how's your week 
going question mark she signed her name 
five minutes later her phone rings not 
even her text phone rings and he says 
it's so great to hear from you would you 
like to go out this weekend 
and she was like o m g so they agreed to 
go out the next weekend and guess what 
they're now happily married and they've 
been married for a couple of years so 
what happened is we all get in our head 
sometimes and so if you haven't heard 
from somebody that you think you had a 
good date with it's 50 50. maybe they 
weren't into you and that's fine but 
maybe they were but they thought you 
didn't like them the way we break that 
tie is sending this nudge text if 
someone is interested like my client's 
date was they'll respond quickly going 
oh my gosh I thought they didn't have 
any fun but they did and I like them so 
let's do this but if you send the nudge 
text and you hear crickets you don't 
hear anything then it falls on the other 
side of the line okay maybe they just 
weren't that into you send one nudge 
text not seven nudge texts not 17. now 
not phone calls nothing one nudge text 
see you've got a 50 50 shot of putting 
it over the line and I'll tell you what 
a lot of times the nudge Works does it 
always work no but at least you know 
bless and release them at that point if 
they're not into you and they don't see 
what an awesome catch you are and 
they're not into you okay bless them and 
release them on their way put good 
energy out there wish them well and look 
for people that are into you so I hope 
you have an amazing week I hope this 
nudges you haha to send a nudge text 
next time you're in doubt and if you 
don't know what to do and you're 
confused about a situation and you need 
some help remember we are personal 
trainers for your love life this is what 
we do helping you is the food that feeds 
us to go to smartdatingacademy.com sign 
up for our newsletter subscribe to this 
podcast schedule a consultation with us 
right you were worth any investment you 
make your grow growth is worth all of it 
don't spend the money on your handbag or 
your cabinets or the Safari spend money 
on the most important decision you'll 
ever make and that's finding the lid to 
your pop because you are worth it and 
it's the most important decision you 
will ever make so with that signing off 
I'm wishing you a week of amazing love 
and um Happy nudging 
