[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love one of the 
biggest questions I get from everybody 
is oh my God how do I flirt how do I 
increase my confidence so today I cannot 
tell you how excited I am to give you 
guys the gift of my friend Kimmy Seltzer 
who is a confidence therapist authentic 
dating strategist and an image expert 
Kim thank you for being on oh this is so 
special thank you for having me on I 
mean we were just talking about off air 
like we met so many years 
ago and I love that we're here now 
together on your podcast on my podcast 
and quick insiders note and I'll know 
that you listen to this Kimmy and I grew 
up in neighboring suburbs in glenw and 
Northbrook Illinois and we went to 
Sister rival high school so there you go 
so hi five girlfriend I know but we're 
not Rivals thank God we're we're friends 
now absolutely 100% so let's Dive Right 
into this so you've got a great 
background Kimmy you were a a 
relationship you were a therapist and 
then found your calling in helping 
people build their dating style their 
dating confidence their flirting skills 
so tell me what is your magic for 
formula the Charisma quotient and tell 
us how do you use all of this and all of 
your juice to build this sexy but 
authentic dating confidence let's just 
go into it yeah I mean I would be a Miss 
if I didn't share a little bit about my 
story and how I got into this because as 
you explained right like I was a 
therapist and I still infused therapy 
into um helping people but really the 
reason why I'm so passionate about doing 
what I do is because of my own story and 
the Charisma quotient came out of that 
to be honest and you know I was again 
this good girl from Chicago leaving you 
know the Chicago life at the picket 
fence and I had the dog and the kids and 
the husband I don't have the husband 
anymore you know where the story is 
going right 
so we picked up and I had that 
traditional life and I really thought 
that that's where my life was going to 
be and in that moment of time I really 
believed in working on the inside out 
like right coming from that place of 
working really 
on who you are and the and all that 
juicy stuff that we do on the inside but 
then my own story happened and why I 
flip the script on all of this because 
we moved across the country we land here 
in la la land uh LA and we do it all the 
other people here do we get a divorce 
and joking obviously issues insert in 
story and what you know here I am that 
just all alone in my new Castle not 
knowing what to do with my new life 
basically and 
I I everything that I knew in the 
traditional sense just went out the 
window and I was in this like really sad 
space and place and my clothes reflected 
it okay so if you saw me back then I 
would not be wearing pink first of all 
those of you who are seeing me right now 
I was in all black with my my nursing 
bras I wasn't even nursing any longer 
and my birken stocks and I was like how 
am I going to attract a man looking like 
this this right but I was hilarious I 
was so sad you know and I it was I call 
it my black period because it really 
reflected my mindset I was stuck in my 
clothes stuck in my mindset I did not 
know how to get out of my own way and 
here's the kicker I was a therapist I 
should know better but if anyone were to 
come to me in that time I would been 
like you think you have issues let me 
let me go on the couch for a second 
right and everything inside like in that 
I knew about that I could help others 
with I could not even help myself with 
and I did the work Bella I did the work 
I had the counseling I did all of 
that but again there I was stuck in my 
clothes and my mindset going and your 
nursing bras and your black wardrobe I'm 
just thinking of you no so unsexy like 
and 
so I did something very 
non-traditional I looked in the mirror 
one one day and I was like okay I am 
horrified at what I see here I I'm going 
shopping this is where it all like the 
Charisma quoti started here so I do 
shopping therapy and I know you do this 
with your clients as well because I mean 
really like if you're looking a certain 
way not feeling it like that's one of 
the reasons why I wasn't going after it 
so I I go into the store and what am I 
doing I'm doing what I always do I'm 
pulling black clothes and I think I'm 
upleveling myself because 
I'm buying new clothes and I'm putting 
them in my arms and this personal 
shopper I now call her my angel she came 
up to me and she says 
ma'am I I've been watching you and I 
really think you should try this on and 
she holds up the red 
dress oh I red dress and I said that's 
so sweet of you but that's really not my 
size and that's really not my color she 
says honey that is your color that is 
your size m bam your shopping Angel was 
like yes sweet girl that is your damn 
color you're hot and you need red and I 
caught my red dress moment because it 
was like she hit me over the head with 
that red dress and I came to and you 
know when certain people give you these 
messages in your life and you're really 
able to hear it yeah I heard it it was 
like a megaphone in my ear try it on and 
so I I I grab it I try it on I twirl 
around like Cinderella 
oh bam I look in the mirror and I was 
like wow I just kept staring at myself 
I'm like there she is like this is this 
is who I am but I didn't see myself for 
so long and I I realized that there was 
this visceral response that was 
happening when I tried on the red dress 
so I bought it that day as a costume and 
I called it a costume because I didn't 
really like believe it yet I had to 
marinate in it and so I walked out into 
the world and all this magic started 
happening right new suitors began to 
come my way and all this opportunity 
started knocking on my door I think 
that's when I met you possibly maybe 
shortly year after um but I realized 
there was a symbiotic relationship 
between the outer and the inner when it 
came to confidence that it was not 
superficial that how you feel on the 
outside really reflects how you feel on 
the inside and you have to work on both 
so that's where the Charisma quotient 
was born and now I believe that you have 
to work from the outside in and so what 
the formula speaks to is really three 
pillars is first working on what I call 
your style intelligence which is how you 
Market yourself it's your clothes it's 
your body language it's your first 
impressions it's your energy then I go 
Inward and work on your emotional 
intelligence and that's how you express 
yourself your vulnerability the 
authenticity how you you really like 
show up and express that and the third 
pillar is your social intelligence and 
that's how you manage interpersonal you 
know relationships and yes that includes 
flirting so that's where flirting comes 
in and so when I work with people I 
really look at those three pillars and 
help people like really develop skills 
in each of those areas because that's 
what's going to get you the results 
because that's what happened to me and 
and that I love helping others with it 
too what a great story and I love your 
red dress moment and I want every 
listener you out there whether you're 
commuting or driving or taking a walk or 
sitting at your desk listening to this I 
want you to have your red dress moment 
and maybe you're dude and you're not 
quite feeling like you need a red dress 
moment but I'm sure Kimmy and I will 
come up with another metaphor for you oh 
oh yeah for sure oh guys have red dress 
moments too but it's not a dress right 
right right so for the people listening 
what would you tell them what is step 
one right now you said style emotional 
int emotional intelligence and social 
intelligence and we're going to work now 
from the outside in which I love right 
because it's kind of counter to what 
we're all taught what is step one for 
our dear listener who is listening right 
now what can they do something they can 
do today to start to build their own 
Charisma well and this is why I love 
working on the outside first because 
it's something that's in you know 
there's not too many things in life that 
you get that instant 
gratification and the results and 
there's nothing like looking at your 
wardrobe and doing a wardrobe audit 
right and saying to yourself how how am 
I marketing myself you know and because 
I realized for myself that the black 
clothes were really acting as a cloak to 
keep me invisible from men because I was 
scared quite honestly it's like if even 
if I got the attention I didn't know 
what to do with it so really taking hard 
look at how you're putting yourself out 
there and I have a formula because you 
asked about you know something tangible 
I call it the three C's and everybody 
can do this with their own closet like 
just take a look at the clothes that you 
have and look at these three areas 
number one do you have color right like 
I talk about color and color are 
attractive colors I know you teach this 
as well like when a woman wears red or 
pink she will get more action online and 
off like it there's scientific proof 
around this right so I always teach 
people to be comfortable and get a shade 
of red or pink that really works for 
their skin tone because it's different 
for every skin tone number two is get 
the cut of clothes that is right for 
them um you know every body has a 
different body shape and so for women 
there's five body shapes for men there's 
three and I have a little gift at the 
end that I will share with you so you 
can determine thank you drop yeah I that 
will determine your your body shape but 
once you know what clothes flatter your 
figure and what clothes to stay away 
from it builds your confidence in your 
clothes so that's huge and number three 
is just looking at the clothes that make 
you feel confident so I call it 
confident clothes everyone has a go-to 
outfit right like if you had a date 
tomorrow or you have a social event what 
what is it that you're putting on and 
figure out the why do you get 
complimented in it do you feel 
comfortable do you um you know just like 
the way it feels because that is going 
to exude a certain energy right like 
when you walk into a room and you know 
the first impression I mean Bella you 
probably know this it's only seven 
seconds now like that's crazy it was 30 
seconds I think two years ago so you 
know what you say isn't even as 
important as how you show up in that 
initial hit and if you get good feedback 
in that initial hit that's going to give 
you the confidence to move on oh my gosh 
I love that you guys so the first thing 
to do like Kimmy says is take a look at 
your wardrobe do a wardrobe audit and if 
you can't hire a stylist like Kimmy 
she's in LA and you might be listening 
from wherever you are you could get 
somebody local to help you or I'm sure 
Kimmy would do a zoom audit of your 
closet or if you can't spring for that 
or you're not ready for that have 
someone in your life who speaks truth 
who will be candid with you I have those 
people in my own life just letting you 
know and you know who you are if you're 
listening as well as stylists that work 
with my clients but really to say yeah 
no that that doesn't look good on you 
I've had that many people and I'll just 
you know we're talking about 
vulnerability I've always weight is 
something that I've struggled with it's 
always my struggle it's up 10 down 20 up 
10 and having people people that will 
tell you the truth about what you're 
wearing I go through phases of my life 
where I'll wear a tent when I'm not 
feeling good about myself and my makeup 
artist Ana will tell me okay you've got 
yards of extra cloth hanging off of your 
body this is really unflattering so 
having people that will tell you yeah 
that looks good on you or that not so 
much why do you like that and people 
will ask me to Kimmy's Point why does 
this why do you want to wear that dress 
right well makes me feel good because it 
hides no you don't want that so have 
people around you that are going to help 
you to do that audit just like with 
online dating photos and I'm sure you 
know this too this research shows we 
don't pick the best photos of 
ourselves others to do that for us so 
here if you take something from this 
with this great advice kimm is giving 
you do not think that you're going to go 
in there and do this on your own what 
you probably can do on your own is say 
yeah I need more color because my 
wardrobe looks like Darth Vader or Luke 
Skywalkers which is like all black or 
all white I was a former all black gray 
I thought white and cream were colors 
right like that's fine and gray is a 
color no and now my closet looks like 
Skittles so here are some thing so I can 
tell you personally Kimmy went through 
this I went through this and we teach 
this now so if this resonates with you 
build a village of people around you 
hire Kimmy get get some help help us out 
there guys you don't have to go this 
alone I love that and you know the some 
of the things that you were talking 
about too I do virtual makeovers by the 
way too so I I help people all over but 
it it is having an outside perspective 
it's hard to see yourself but beyond 
that also what is a sexy style so 
there's a difference between having just 
like a professional style or a mommy 
style or a daddy style than a dating 
style and not too many people pay 
attention to what the opposite sex likes 
you know and so that's super fun also 
looking at what makes you feel sexy but 
also how you're advertising yourself 
right because there was a woman um that 
I was working with and she came to me 
just for you know dating coaches she's 
like Kimmy help me talk to men and I you 
know my Style's fine it doesn't need any 
tweaking or that kind of thing and and 
she's actually coming on my podcast 
because she's one of my success stories 
because she she she came and she showed 
up in this huge Shaw she was like like 
like a cocoon wrapped up in a black Shaw 
even though her her clothes were 
expensive and they were nice they were 
not serving her in the dating world you 
know and even the clothes underneath the 
shaw were just kind of big and loose and 
dull colors and the first thing you know 
what the first thing I had her do was 
wear red lipstick for a week I said just 
wear red lipstick and see the impact it 
has just on you and how other people's 
re people receive it she came back she's 
like oh my gosh Kimmy that red bullet 
that magic Red Bullet I'm like what 
happened she's like well I did it and 
all these guys started talking to me I 
didn't know what the heck was going on 
and so it really like again it was 
symbiotic right because men kind of 
noticed this brightness about her and 
then it gave her the courage to talk 
back and from there I created a monster 
quite honestly because then I got her 
like all these sexy clothes and lots of 
bling and color and she just started 
feeling sexy cuz here at the end of the 
day this is what I want everyone to get 
it's not about changing who you are it's 
about marketing yourself so someone gets 
to know who you are and when you love 
you and you look in the mirror and you 
say I'm sexy that's when the other 
people will too absolutely and how you 
dress makes a big impact on your own 
confidence and it's this virtuous cycle 
when you have that red dress moment 
right it goes from the outside in you 
start to see oh wow people are looking 
at me differently maybe I do look pretty 
maybe I can own this color and own this 
dress and that builds your confidence 
and then you carry yourself differently 
and then when you feel that confidence 
from the inside how do you think people 
on the outside start your response so 
it's this amazing virtuous cycle so 
Kimmy when you get men and women coming 
in coming in for makeovers like what are 
some tips that you can give our women 
and our men listening to this especially 
if they're called out in the dating 
world or they just want something they 
just want something to do tonight for a 
date there on tell us what women want 
from men what men want from women I 
guess what women want from women just 
give us your best right right oh my gosh 
that's a big question I'll try to I'll 
I'll try to narrow it down for each sex 
so I mean let's start with the men I 
call them man overs so men I love I love 
you men because you're you're very um 
more simple in the way way that you 
think right and I men are all about 
what's effective and what's efficient 
and so when I do manover a lot of times 
men are like okay do you like this all 
right I'll get five of them you know 
like if you if you know some key pieces 
to wear then it'll be a lot easier but 
here's what men need to know is that 
women do care and we do look men always 
think that oh they're the only visual 
ones uhuhuh we're all Visual and and if 
anything Sometimes women are worse um 
but for men I would say a big mistake 
that they make and one thing they can do 
right now is that they wear things too 
big so if you haven't been shopping in a 
while man um I it would behoove you to 
either you know hire Bella or myself or 
have an outside perspective and help you 
get like some updated styles that are 
more fitted okay and and also like to 
your point when people gain weight a lot 
of times people wear things bigger 
feeling like it conceals that area it's 
actually the opposite yeah when you wear 
things more fitted it'll actually make 
you look thinner and longer and leaner 
even though it's counterintuitive so for 
men that would be my tip now for women I 
would say that every woman needs a dress 
in their wardrobe that is something that 
most men find attractive if that's what 
you're into um and it also makes you 
feel more feminine but I get a lot of 
push back from women because it's like 
oh I I live in a cold climate or that's 
not me um I love working if that's you 
with you women and finding a style that 
does work for you because there is 
something about a woman in a dress that 
has a beautiful just kind of feminine 
flare both in her energy and also it's 
easier to put on quite honestly it's 
easier to throw in a dress that it is 
pairing all these different things so 
once you find this style and the brand 
that works for you it becomes actually 
really fun I've had that happen to a lot 
of women it's so interesting when I 
started in when I started Smart dating 
Academy you know I had come out of the 
corporate world and I worked for a 
manufacturing company and I was you know 
Hillary Clinton's vice president of 
panits constantly black gray and now I 
have an entire rack of dresses my 
wardrobe people joke it looks like 
Skittles here's the red and here's the 
yellow here's the orange and here the 
green but really to Kimmy's Point 
finding yourself that dress and I 
promise you every day at Smart dating 
Academy when we're saying men love 
feminine Styles and I know you know 
Rachel Greenwald and Rachel me and 
Rachel wrote this great book um called 
have him at hello and in that book she 
says that 84% of men surveyed and this 
is men from their 20s to their 70s 
across all socioeconomic and educational 
backgrounds 84% that they would would 
love said that they would love to see 
their first date showing up in a dress 
or a skirt right so the data is there 
and she surveyed I think over 1500 men 
on that so what Kimmy is saying and what 
I'm telling you is right and there are 
so many different types of dresses and 
styles and once you start with a dress 
and dresses to Kimmy is from Chicago so 
she knows we are cold and gray eight 
months of the year all the way to Living 
in Sunny La La Land and the dress if 
you're in the midwest if you're in the 
Northeast and it's cold you can do 
tights you can do cute boots you can do 
a cute cardigan and a belt over a dress 
there's so many ways that you can play 
up your femininity over a dress but 
immediately when you put that dress on 
it gives you a little bit of that 
feminine girly energy and I know that 
again remember because I was the 
manufacturing pants suit Queen and yes 
you can all give me you can all give me 
your flack around that because I don't 
talk about that that often oh my God we 
would be hot Commodities together the 
Hillary Clinton look with a frumpy mommy 
yeah was really B nurs and pants suits 
horrible yeah it's not a good combo but 
but to your point like yeah when you 
when when you put it on it you do like 
you said embody a different energy and I 
work a lot with body language you know I 
do these wingal sessions where I go out 
in the field and I work with people on 
how to flirt how to interact and 
a lot of times women and men don't 
realize that like if they're not putting 
themselves out there even with the 
clothes that they 
wear it affects their body language they 
seem like they're hiding more in their 
body you know and so when I do these 
manover makeovers what have you first 
before doing the wingal session it's 
it's like night and day it's night and 
day how they move in even to the room 
they're standing a little bit taller you 
slow down your walk you know smiling 
making eye contact I know we're bleeding 
more into the social intelligence but no 
let's go there let's go there let's go 
there let's go there go into this go 
into flirting it's so super juicy I love 
that you do these wing woman or wing 
girl sessions tell us you know three to 
five things flirting makes even the most 
confident person go oh my God I'm 
confident but I don't know how to flirt 
and I tell them flirting is about 
connecting right don't make it so 
daunting so tell us what we can do if 
we're men if we're women as we're coming 
out of pandemic knock on wood and we go 
back to social events we're socially 
anxious right number one so you need to 
get yourselves back out there so Kimmy 
give us your best on how do we take now 
we've resty ourselves we've got color 
we've got cut we've got great pieces 
we've had a wardrobe audit now we're 
going into the real world what how do I 
flirt how do I flirt oh Bella oh my god 
well you're a flirt first of all you did 
it naturally and to your point it is 
about connection and energy but here's 
the thing and I like literally we could 
probably do a whole other podcast on 
this because I'm so passionate about 
this topic I do flirt workshops now and 
um both with men and women and we do a 
lot of practice and here's the thing 
that's fascinating about flirting is 
that it raises a lot of hairs right and 
eyebrows when you say that word there's 
so many associations around it so I love 
asking people what their definition of 
flirting is and from a therapist point 
of view a lot of us have attachments to 
that word for many different reasons and 
that trips us up but here's the kicker 
when you look in the dictionary of what 
flirting is it's to behave as though you 
are attracted to someone without the 
serious intention of an outcome and I 
love that because that last part being 
attached to the outcome is what trips 
everybody up because flirting is not 
supposed to be about and and here's what 
the fears are and excuses I hear well I 
don't want to give that person the wrong 
you know idea I want him to like me for 
my intelligence not my body I'm not good 
at it um you know it Go the list goes on 
and on and on but the truth is it's not 
about any of that it's about being 
playful and connecting and creating a 
magnetic energy that just draws people 
to you in that moment and when you let 
go of the outcome you let go of the 
anxiety of all the things that but what 
ifs you need to think about what is and 
so a lot of the sexual connotations that 
people have around it also is what trips 
people up but if you think of it being 
more in your play than anything else it 
it really helps people but letting go 
and playing is really hard for a lot of 
people so when I'm teaching them um a 
couple things right like style is 
definitely part of it and that's the 
first thing is first you got to address 
the part but then how do you embody it 
so the second is the body language and 
there are a lot of different body 
language tips that I love um giving 
people you know both men and women have 
different body signals and there's so 
much research out there and even the 
subconscious signals but I would say on 
a very simple level really paying 
attention to the eye contact and smiling 
and that's for both sexes you know 
because we to your point we've been 
wearing the masks we're coming out of 
the pandemic just because we had our 
mask on didn't mean we couldn't make eye 
contact yet none of us did we avoided 
eye contact and smiling with that mask 
so our social muscle is a little 
atrophied and so we need to exercise it 
but a lot of you might not have been 
exercised even before the pandemic hit 
so really just going out and practicing 
making eye contact and smiling and just 
saying hi it's such a simple thing but I 
promise you when you do that that's the 
first you know connection that you make 
there's so many rbfs out there I don't 
know if I can say what that means on 
this podcast res in face people 
right we all know it I mean I didn't 
make it up but it's a known thing and 
this is real people like I've seen it 
and I'm trying to eradicate it one by 
one but you know even when you think 
you're you're not doing the rbfs a lot 
of people are and it's just we're so 
busy and we're so like pulled in so just 
opening yourself up and smiling is the 
first thing um and then just like the 
posture too you know being open with 
your posture and slowing down the walk 
and really notice who's no noticing you 
yeah like that is huge like all these 
people that I coach they're going a mile 
a minute I'm like oh wait did you just 
see that person checking you out oh no I 
was just so busy getting to where we're 
gonna go I'm like well you're so busy to 
where you're going to go try to go flirt 
then you miss the opportunity to flirt 
in between you know so it's it's just an 
interesting thing to like slow down and 
think about and then the final thing I 
teach about is is communication right 
conversation tricks how we move a 
conversation that's again a whole other 
thing so I love so much of what you said 
I love everything you said and I think 
if you guys if you're listening to this 
right and you're still hung up on the 
word flirting and you think that means 
you have to stick your boobs out or you 
know dress hoochie or you know dudes 
you've got to be like Rico Suave no what 
Kimmy said was great and I'm gonna 
paraphrase the definition of flirting 
but it's making someone feel like you're 
attracted to them this is not about you 
it's making the other person feel good 
about themselves like you are interested 
in them so if you're fully invested in 
making that person across from you feel 
good about themselves you know what you 
cannot do concurrently you cannot be 
anxious about yourself so if your goal 
is I'm just going to go out and flirt 
with five people in the grocery store 
okay and I have my clients do this I 
don't care if they're men I don't care 
if it's the stocking guy I don't care if 
it's the cashier or the old lady look at 
people smile and say something nice look 
for what is good in them and then tell 
them what's good that is your first step 
in being an amazing flirt is making 
people feel good about themselves and 
that's not manipulative when you look 
for what's authentically good in 
somebody all you're doing is putting 
more love into the World by telling them 
what's good about them what you notice 
about them I would say Kimmy I love love 
love your hot pink shirt it is gorgeous 
and your matching Berry lip you're like 
so on point and you're so bright and 
beautiful looking right and when you 
look for what's good in somebody and you 
tell them you are giving them love and 
guess what they're going to do they're 
going to give you or someone else love 
it's the best way to elevate the 
vibration for yourself and to practice 
flirting it is not about you it is about 
about making the other person feel good 
about themselves and not being attached 
to the outcome exactly and Bella I think 
you just flirted with me were you just 
demonstrating the flirt I was I was I 
wanted to 
see I wanted to see if we could grab a 
cocktail together oh my God pleas but 
that is the point of what Bella is 
saying is that like you know too many 
times we get to Target specific and who 
we're flirting with too is that when you 
let go of that and you flirt with 
you know babies and dogs and girls and 
boys and like all it's flirting with 
life that's when opportunity happens 
because you don't know who's watching 
you your magnetic energy is going to be 
so attractive no matter where you are I 
have so many stories around that where 
you know people met people just because 
they were flirting with someone else and 
someone else noticed them you know and 
so it's not always the person that 
you're talking to but also not worrying 
about what that person is about people 
worry like oh well that person's married 
or maybe that person is a girlfriend 
boyfriend just make a connection to your 
point you know when you said that um 
there was a woman I I coached this is 
just a cute funny story based on what 
we're talking about and she was trying 
to learn how to flirt so I was 
demonstrating with her at the bar and 
everything and it was her turn to 
initiate and who sits next to her but a 
a a gentleman who is like 20 years our 
senior and he was married like 
everything was against you know like 
what she thought that she could do when 
it came to flirting so she looked at me 
she's like Kimmy I can't I said oh yes 
you can I expect when I get back from 
the bathroom that you're gonna be 
talking to him and so she's like oh okay 
so I get back and she is talking to him 
and we start flirting and having fun he 
was awesome okay just awesome he was 
married he was from New Zealand funny 
funny funny guy and he was telling the 
story of how he met his wife and it was 
just beautiful and and halfway through 
the conversation he's like are either 
one of you single by chance I said' oh 
yeah my friend is who was my client and 
he says oh great I I really thought you 
would say that and I I was hoping that 
because I have a friend for you I said 
well where is he bring him out and he's 
like I will so we you know we get 
information and we met him out later and 
I created like a monster because we had 
like guys around us and we're flirting 
and in walks the New Zealander with his 
friend who was dropped at gorgeous my 
client's age they hit it off and they 
ended up dating so it's like like think 
about the the it all started from 
talking to a married man who she never 
thought so really learning to not 
getting attached to the outcome and 
making those connections is just crucial 
oh my gosh and so how did she start the 
conversation with him at the bar like 
give us a because I know everyone's like 
I want the hot New Zealand guy how do I 
start conversation because here's and 
I'll start it with what most people are 
afraid of most people are afraid of the 
rejection or I'm married or getting some 
sort of a negative response so how do 
you overcome the fear of rejection the 
fear of saying something wrong into 
starting a conversation I'm so glad you 
asked that because that's one of the 
things that I do and as a therapist I 
know like there actually are five dating 
fears that I talk about a lot I'm not 
going to go into all of them but the top 
one being rejection and that's what 
trips us all up a lot of time so it's 
like first of all the the best way of 
getting over that fear is doing it over 
and over and over again right like that 
that's why I consider myself a 
strategist more than even a coach or a 
therapist these days because I just 
think we need strategies that are put in 
place that create new habits and how you 
do that is just putting yourself in 
practice over and over and over again 
the more you do it the less of a hit 
it'll be um anything that will help 
ground you before walking in into you 
know a situation taking a deep breath 
you know like listening to music getting 
more in your body is going to really 
help with that too I I find that like 
nine times out of 10 that people who get 
really nervous or get you know like 
attached to the outcome and all that are 
in their heads like how many of you 
listening are in your head all the time 
and if you can get out of your head and 
stop overanalyzing everything and get 
more into your body that's going to help 
so dance put on music you know do things 
that will really get into that Spirit of 
being flirty and fun um and then finally 
it's really understanding some of those 
conversation tricks like I have a social 
engagement formula that I teach people 
that moves conversations from your head 
into something that's more personal 
storytelling and fun and I think that's 
another mistake that people make is that 
they'll have a conversation well they'll 
they they'll start with like a very 
factual safe boring kind of conversation 
the best conversations are usually 
Whimsical and playful you know and so 
that can be really hard for a lot of 
people and learning how to to do that is 
just it it makes conversations more fun 
and also be more connected when you come 
from a place of something that's more 
personal than factual I love that can 
you give us like some hints around this 
social engagement formula so people can 
kind of wrap their head around how do 
you not be boring I think that's another 
fear people oh my God I'm boring I'm not 
a good conversationalist I don't have 
anything to say like oh what do you do 
for work what about you where do you 
live like how do we you open up with 
something playful or whimsical is it 
about preparing no it's just the 
opposite okay good I'm learning too you 
guys oh my God no people ask me all the 
time Kimmy can you just give me a couple 
lines that I can say just a script and 
the answer is n oh no because that is 
the reason why you're tripping up in the 
first place is that you're you're trying 
to analyze and memorize versus just be 
and so for I I work with a lot of high 
Achievers I know you do too and if 
you're a perfectionist High achiever 
this is counterintuitive for you because 
you want to study right you want to 
study the script so that you can go in 
feeling better um one thing I will say 
again it's a bigger conversation um and 
obviously like when I work with people 
it's it's putting them into practice of 
this Stu 
is when you're getting away from the 
facts and you're getting more personal 
in the way that you ask questions that's 
that's like the first thing so you and 
also don't be scared of playing a game 
the thing that a lot of people get into 
is the Q&A sessions right I call it the 
LinkedIn exchange right right like oh 
horrible like or even the DMS right 
you've seen this you know how are you 
I'm good how are you I'm fine how is 
your oh my God don't do it so don't be 
scared about having a little fun and 
answering a question with a question for 
instance so if somebody asks you what do 
you do for a living I'll just give a tip 
right here because this is what I do 
with all my 
clients I go back and say what do you 
think I do and I play a game like how 
fun is that like then you're getting 
these people to guess what you do for a 
living do you know that nine times out 
of 10 I never even say what I do like 
people don't really care it's more fun 
playing a guessing game on what you do 
than actually what you do for a living 
you can have that conversation on 
LinkedIn if you want and if you end up 
dating that person great it's not about 
what you do it's about the passion and 
the personality and the feelings that 
you have when you're with somebody 
because if you like that person if 
there's a feeling that gets solicited 
from that interaction that's when you 
want to move on with them it's not about 
what you know it's about how you feel I 
love that that's so funny that reminds 
me of a story a client of mine High 
achiever in her early early 30s went to 
Harvard and came back to Chicago and 
said okay I'm hiring you because when 
I'm here and I'm out and when people are 
like oh where'd you go to school I said 
it's like dropping the hbomb right it's 
the Harvard bomb and suddenly guys go 
screaming away like oh you're that and 
so we deployed we gamified it and this 
is exactly so when they would ask 
Lindsay where did you go to school and 
she said you know what I'm G to give you 
guesses and I'll tell you if you're 
getting warmer or colder right because 
what is that that is the antithesis of 
what you would expect an Ivy League 
graduate to do you would expect them to 
say well I went to Harvard University in 
Cambridge how about you and when she 
gamified this she's like I'm gonna give 
you three chances to guess where I went 
they're like I don't know maybe you went 
to U ofi maybe you went to Michigan 
because then she seemed like a good 
homegrown Midwestern fun girl in a bar 
and so by the time they got to the third 
guest no one ever ever ever guessed it 
was Harvard and by that time she would 
smile and she's like okay I'm gonna drop 
the hom I actually went to Harvard and 
then I came back here because I love the 
Midwest right and so now she's already 
established herself as somebody fun and 
playful in their minds and she is now 
married and she has two babies 
a it I'll start with the game no 
but be playful and around that because 
you asked about kind of the story too 
what was so good about that is it got 
her into this kind of playful State and 
so he probably liked that you know just 
that the playfulness of the conversation 
and if somebody asks you about school 
like that's another mistake that people 
make is that they'll answer at face 
value and say I went to Harvard like 
even if it wasn't Harvard even if it was 
just another College then people get 
that into that fact driven conversation 
so I I went to Harvard University I 
studied law and speech communication and 
they go into the CL if you get into your 
story like that also is effective so and 
you know you could say I went to Harvard 
and gosh I loved Harvard it was a time 
in my life where I just felt so carefree 
and I have the funniest story to share 
with you when you know and then start 
going into the story of something that 
happened to you because again that is 
that story is more rooted into the 
person again versus the fact 
that's right and remember as human 
beings we are our brains are wired to 
remember stories yes right we were 
storytellers and ancient I mean if you 
think back thousands and thousands and 
thousands of years ago before we had 
written language and we could write out 
our stories and pass them down to 
generation to generation we told stories 
and so our brains are wired to remember 
and to receive and to be captivated by 
story so when you think of what's made 
you you it's funny we have we have a 
module that we work on with our clients 
called the dating resume and it's 
preparing for a date like you would 
prepare for a job interview but not over 
prepping Kim to your point it's more 
thinking about fun stories about 
yourself about things that you did at 
work growing up so that you can have 
these playful conversations but 
sometimes it's hard like you need to sit 
back and go oh my God I never thought 
about this is so funny I won a hula hoop 
contest in fifth grade that's so cute 
right and talking about these things 
that make you you because if you're 
sitting there listening and you're 
telling yourself I'm boring I don't have 
anything interesting about me I promise 
you call me call Kimmy you are not 
boring every human being and you 
listener listening to this podcast with 
smart people I promise you you are a 
beautiful tapestry of a bunch of 
different experien and you just need 
somebody to tap tap tap a little bit and 
help draw those things out of you so be 
be excited that you can do this you can 
connect with people you do have Charisma 
and Charisma is not something you are 
born with it is something that you can 
learn you can learn the style 
intelligence you can learn the emotional 
intelligence you can learn the social 
intelligence so Kimmy you are a goddess 
for a thousand Reasons thank you so much 
for being with me for being on our show 
and for dropping all these gems I 
learned so much and I'm so elevated by 
talking to you today oh my gosh it's so 
likewise and and see it is that that 
Charisma and I love what you said at the 
end is is really that's what excites me 
about Charisma and that's why it's the 
name of my podcast the Charisma quotient 
too because it's it is something you can 
learn and so if you're listening to this 
and you're feeling well I don't even 
know where to start 
you know just starting small in each of 
these areas it will add up to the bigger 
success just do one thing maybe just put 
on a red lipstick right for your style 
intelligence maybe for your emotional 
intelligence just say no set some 
boundaries for yourself and for the 
flirting for the soci you know this the 
uh social 
intelligence make eye contact like use 
what Bella said you know Five Guys in 
one day and just see what it feels like 
and then go home and journal about it 
and then do it again the next day you 
know that's going to build the 
confidence and create success in your 
life exactly and you're not looking at 
rejection with that you're looking to 
say did I do the five I'm not attached 
to the outcome I don't care if they 
looked back at me I don't care if they 
smiled back at me did I do my five today 
right and we do this with our clients 
like there's no like flirt with a kid 
flirt with an old lady flirt with a dog 
I don't care make eye contact and say 
something nice to somebody so Kimmy 
thank you for your Brilliance and we 
will absolutely have have you back again 
for more conversation so thank you oh my 
God you're so welcome and I have a a 
free gift for the listeners Oh yay gift 
love gift I did a little flirt bomb in 
the beginning so I have to like carry 
through and so if anyone would like a 
style guide so so for women I have a 
style guide and it helps you measure 
like what your body type is and you're 
measuring and it has nothing to do with 
your weight just so you know women hear 
about the tape the measuring tape and 
they get freaked out it's about your 
bone St structure so once you measure 
yourself you'll know which body type you 
are my guide goes into what clothes 
flatter your figure and what clothes to 
stay away from and for men I have a 
man's fashion Manifesto that goes over 
your body types but it also goes over a 
little grooming tips because let's face 
it like men need you know trim the nose 
hairs like the little things make a big 
difference that go along way and so if 
you want that you can just go to kimys 
Seltzer dcom style to pick that up 
