Bella one of the reasons you and I hit 
it off is because we're so comfortable 
together well nobody here wants to date 
someone they're not comfortable with if 
I go on a first date with someone if I 
don't feel relaxed if it doesn't feel at 
ease I don't care what his credentials 
are I don't care how great he golfs or 
how well he tells a joke if I don't feel 
comfortable I don't want to go on 
another date and it goes in both hands 
so I believe conversation skills are an 
important part of our packaging when we 
look at ourselves and when we look at 
dating and I know it's extremely 
challenging some women are in transition 
some men are newly in the game some men 
have lost their spouse some women have 
um decided to not focus on their career 
maybe focus more on relationships so 
we're not Adept at this it's not an art 
that comes easily to all of 
us 
