[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
hey smart daters hope you are having a 
wonderful day so far and my wish for you 
is that something amazing is going to 
happen to you today and I want you to 
tell yourself right now something 
amazing is going to happen to me today 
and say it out loud because when you say 
it out loud you're putting it out into 
the universe so maybe a great parking 
spot is going to open up for you maybe 
you're going to scratch off the winning 
number on the lottery maybe you're going 
to meet eyes with the beautiful stranger 
today and smile and they're gonna walk 
over to you and ask you you know what 
scent you're wearing because you smell 
Divine I hope something wonderful 
happens to you today now what I wanted 
to talk to you about today is the 
biggest way to get over an ex or someone 
who's not good for you somebody you're 
pining for but mainly you know or even 
to get over grieving somebody could be 
somebody you were married to somebody 
you were dating for a minute and they 
disappeared somebody you had a long-term 
relationship with or someone you wish 
would be interested in you 
um 
let me proceed it by saying I've talked 
a lot about how to heal from heartbreak 
and help people at Smart dating Academy 
with this all the time so we've talked 
about things like getting rid of 
everything this person gave you right 
you can burn it detox it have a bonfire 
give it to Goodwill you know really kind 
of erasing reminders of this person but 
one of the things that I have come 
across in recent research is really 
interesting and it's something called 
negative reappraisal and this is the 
best and most proven way to get over 
your grief about somebody so typically 
when we're grieving somebody it's 
because we're thinking about all of the 
good times that we had together we're 
imagining what this person was like what 
our relationship was like when it was 
really really good when they called all 
the time when they were Intoxicated by 
us and they wanted to be with us every 
minute of every day and we did fun 
dinners together and fun trips together 
and we bought each other gifts and we 
talked about what the future looks like 
and when we're grieving and when we're 
missing somebody our brain goes back to 
those parts and we pedestalize those 
memories and that makes us miss this 
person even more what negative 
reappraisal is guys is it's basically 
putting logic to this the person who 
we're romanticizing we did all those 
dinners with bought us all those gifts 
we had so much fun with so much intimacy 
with that person for whatever reason is 
gone it was like an illusion that person 
changed they changed or the way they 
felt about us changed and what we want 
to do is sit down and to do a negative 
reappraisal 
is write down all of the ways that this 
person hurt you write down all of the 
ways with which they wronged you what 
are the things that hurt you that you 
hated about this person write that list 
down and although I am a psychotic 
Optimist and I'm always talking about 
getting to our positive place and 
getting to our happy place in this one 
spot I want to tell you this is when 
being overtly positive will potentially 
hurt you if you find yourself going back 
and romanticizing what if what was what 
could have write this list down with 
your hands write it down with pen and 
paper carry this list around with you 
and when you find yourself going back 
and getting sad open that page and open 
up and read the reality of what this 
relationship was like maybe they hurt 
you they it goes to Jew they were 
critical they were mean they stopped 
wanting to be with you they wouldn't 
commit to you they stopped calling 
themselves their boyfriend or your 
girlfriend they just they started being 
mean to you and saying I don't like the 
way you eat your Peas I don't like the 
way you smell in the morning whatever it 
is and write those things that were 
hurtful down that is who that person was 
and that is what this relationship was 
so negative reappraisal is probably the 
most effective way if you're really 
grieving and you find yourself harboring 
feelings and you can't get over an ex 
give this a try let me know how it feels 
it's shown great success with a lot of 
clients that I've worked with and with 
what the research is coming out of the 
psychological world so I hope this helps 
you if you need help 
getting over a relationship you feel 
like you're stuck if you feel like 
you're just not picking the right people 
and you want a best buddy a personal 
trainer for your love life make sure you 
reach out to us at 
smartdatingacademy.com schedule a 
consultation we would love to help you 
and can't wait to watch you sail into 
the sunset and become one of the love 
stories maybe you've heard midori's love 
story or Holly's love story or Andrea's 
love story or Nancy Hollis Love Story 
there's so many inspiring love stories 
in here just know that if you're 
grieving try this negative reappraisal 
and if you really want help in getting 
to the next level and finding love reach 
out to us because we are always here for 
you until next time I bid you farewell 
and I send you wishes for something 
amazing to happen to you 
