[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
this is the episode you've been waiting 
for who doesn't love a good love story 
you know me I love love I love helping 
people I love helping people find love 
and today our guest is 
a teacher in Chicago she's an author of 
an amazing book that will blow your mind 
and she's a smart dater and she's Found 
Love Against All Odds so I'm really 
excited to welcome my dear friend Sylvia 
fodey to the podcast today Sylvia thank 
you for being here hi fella so happy to 
be here so great to see you 
so Sylvia let's just Dive Right In to 
you your story which is an incredibly 
relatable and Incredibly inspiring for 
people 
um I'll you know I know you were married 
you 
were divorced you are from and I'll give 
you a spoiler guys about what Sylvia's 
book is about you're going to like lose 
your teeth over this Sylvia's family was 
Lithuanian royalty or considered 
Lithuanian royalty and Sylvia's mom on 
her deathbed her grandfather or her 
grandfather was a World War II hero who 
fought against the Communists and Mom 
says to Sylvia make sure honey that you 
capture your grandfather's history there 
are streets named after this man there 
are schools named after this man so as 
Sylvia starts to do the work 
she comes to a giant realization sort of 
horrifyingly that her grandfather wasn't 
who she thought he was so Sylvia do you 
want to tell us just a bit about that 
and then we'll Circle back to that at 
the end because your story is so amazing 
and what you're doing is amazing 
thanks yeah this was you know I grew up 
uh in Marquette Parks outside of Chicago 
very Lithuanian community 
and I always heard wonderful stories 
about my grandfather Jonas narenka who 
fought very bravely against the 
Communists 
and you know he died in a KGB prison 
um he was in a Nazi concentration camp 
uh so lots of things happened to him 
um and anyway my mom was always going to 
write this book on her father uh because 
the Lithuanian Community here asked her 
to do that she died very early she was 
only 60 years old oh wow and uh in the 
year 2000 and I was 38 then a full-time 
journalist and anyway she realized she 
ran out of time and asked me to take 
over her project 
and uh it was a pretty insane death bed 
promise but when your mom asked you to 
do something like that under those 
circumstances what other answer can you 
give except yeah except yes a giant yes 
so 
um I said yes and 
um then I got really into this into the 
whole project and very early on within 
that first year 
I came across evidence that he 
participated in the Holocaust in 
Lithuania and in a rather large way 
um so you know I mean I I do hour-long 
uh talks on this but you know I I ended 
up finding out he played a role in 
murdering 14 000 Jews oh my God in 
Lithuania 
um and 
um Lithuania has 
the highest number highest percentage of 
Jews killed in all of Europe so uh and I 
did not know this either before going 
into all this so if you were Jewish you 
had a three percent chance of surviving 
the Holocaust in Lithuania 
you had a better chance in Germany and 
Austria you know homeland of Hitler uh 
than you did in Lithuania so 
um my story basically upended the whole 
Narrative of lithuania's role in the 
Holocaust because 
unfortunately my grandfather wasn't the 
only one who enthusiastically 
participated 
in the murder of Jews and so you know 
until my book came out lithuania's story 
was it was all the Nazis they did it but 
um my book is pushing back against that 
narrative and saying that no uh they 
couldn't have done it without the 
lithuanians so that's kind of the gist 
of it oh my gosh I have Goosebumps 
Sylvia what a what an incredible 
Discovery and how 
the choice you made to boldly tell the 
story and at your own risk at your 
family's own risk to set the truth free 
and to tell people what actually 
happened I have Goosebumps I know the 
first time you told me this story I 
literally I couldn't believe it and and 
you know you're an amazing you're a hero 
for doing what you're doing for so many 
people and I know that you've undergone 
a lot of threats a lot of a lot of 
backlash sometimes from your own people 
opinions still are in denial over the 
role of their ancestors and the role of 
the Holocaust and I get it because it 
took me 10 years to get over the denial 
it took me 20 years to write the book 
and ten of those years was that 
psychological work of just 
um accepting the Ugly Truth and uh many 
with Wayne's are still stuck in the 
denial stage here and uh in Lithuania so 
wow and and speaking of lithuanians 
let's try let's let's kind of come to 
you and your life and your marriage tell 
us just kind of tell us 
how you what your story is and then how 
you and how you found love 
well my ex 
uh you talk about the well I uh was 
married for 35 years 
um I met him in Argentina I was a 
journalist working there 
and we did fall in love uh he wasn't 
Lithuanian and 
um anyway uh came back to Chicago had 
our life 
I'm gonna skip a lot of parts that's 
fine you tell the story in any way you 
want 
but well this is you know I mean the 
saddest part of the whole story is you 
know we have two we had two children the 
oldest 
um her name was Alessandra and uh 
she met a boy who lives three blocks 
away and he introduced her to heroin 
and 
um apparently the heroine was horrible 
and she got hooked in three after three 
times with a this is also a whole other 
story but anyway 
um she died of an overdose in 2015. 
and she was uh 21 years old and of 
course uh devastating to the whole 
family 
um and 
my ex and I really couldn't recover from 
it it seemed and that's basically the 
main reason why our uh marriage 
dissolved I mean there were other things 
but that was the overriding thing 
so 
um 
you know he asked for the divorce uh May 
2019 
and I did not see it coming 
oh wow you were blindsided I was 
completely blindsided I just did not see 
it coming I was uh devastated you know I 
mean as bad as what we went through with 
our daughter I thought at least the 
marriage would survive but it did a 
um and 
um 
I don't know where to take this 
uh I guess you know it took two years 
for the divorce to get finalized uh 
covid was in between all that so that 
slowed things down we didn't I mean as 
far as divorces when it was a gentle 
divorce we 
we 
figured out uh and I understand that 
that's unusual 
um so in that sense at least it was 
gentle you know the whole emotional part 
of breaking up was terrible but the but 
the The Legal Financial part was rather 
gentle so uh it became finalized last 
May so it's going to be a year now in 
May so may 2021. yeah May 21 2021 and I 
had already uh been hearing about you by 
then because 
after uh I know about six months after 
he asked for the divorce and I it really 
sunk in you know I had gone through all 
my denial that this is really gonna 
happen I begged him to change his mind 
he didn't 
um then it really sunk in that this is 
going to be the end and I'm like I think 
at the time I was uh 59 turning 16 I'm 
like 
I have to start over 
at the age of 60. are you kidding me 
after 35 years I mean are you kidding me 
so of course I freaked out and 
um 
you know I started I'm you know my 
background's journalism now I'm a high 
school English teacher I'm a really big 
reader so I bought every single book on 
dating that is out there and I really 
like 20 I don't know at least 20 of them 
and 
that's what I do when I freak out I just 
read and figure out try to figure out 
things and then I came across you 
um your IG lives and 
um I kept thinking about it and thinking 
about and thinking about and then you 
know we have a mutual friend Jill who I 
also talked to about uh with you about 
you to her and you know she highly 
recommended you but I'd already been 
impressed with you by then 
um anyway 
and I thought I can't do this by myself 
there's no way I can start over and then 
to add all this you know my book had 
come out and I my high school 
um Proviso Math and Science Academy gave 
me a sabbatical for a whole year which 
is unusual in high school level but I 
got a sabbatical for the whole year to 
promote my book 
and I thought this is a good year to 
like I have the time you know to start 
something because because I don't know 
you know starting a relationship is 
really something and 
um I thought if I'm ever gonna because 
if I'm gonna do it this would be a good 
year to meet someone and you know get 
things going 
uh so I was trying to be very logical in 
this crazy emotional time and and I 
thought all right once I signed on with 
you I thought I still hope I still 
wanted to be 
um divorced for six months like I don't 
want to be separated you know looking 
for some because I was very serious 
about 
really finding someone long term I mean 
I'm 60 I'm not gonna like do the bar 
scene and all that you're gorgeous 60. 
nobody would ever guess you were 60. 
Sylvia 
still it's still you know I I would like 
I can't you can't lie about you're like 
you have to and I I wouldn't lie about 
it anyway but 
um so 
um I guess that's the setup I I signed 
on with you and maybe we can start from 
there you I remember it was last summer 
you were fresh out of your divorce 
because now we're doing this and it's 
about May 2022 and you did one of our 
love lab workshops and you know I 
remember seeing this beautiful woman who 
said I'm a com we have a common friend 
she'll share a Murphy and for you dear 
listener you probably heard you've seen 
Joe on my Instagram live show or I've 
had Jill on this podcast talking about 
the let go of bulls to find your own big 
wild love so as soon as I knew I saw 
Sylvia at the love lab workshop and I 
knew if she's friends with Jill we're 
definitely gonna help you find love and 
so you took the plunge early probably 
mid last summer right and said I'm gonna 
do this I'm gonna work with you for six 
months and do you think this will work 
for me and I said well of course it's 
going to work for you right of course 
it's gonna work and the first step right 
was we had to get prepared for your 
photo shoot so tell us a little bit 
about that and you worked with Eileen 
Collins from my team who's an amazing 
coach and is a dear friend of yours now 
as well 
yeah that photo ship was a big trip I 
mean 
um you know I had to get uh clothes you 
know for for the photo shoot and I'm 
digging things out of my closet and I'm 
putting them on and I'm showing Eileen 
like in a zoom like this 
she's like 
no in her Eileen way like I think we 
could do something different don't you 
think 
so you know I had like blacks and Grays 
and Browns and boxies uh you know boxy 
things like covering me up completely 
and I think you were on a couple of them 
too do you have anything a little bit 
more form-fitting no 
so 
um I did I finally started putting on 
the more form-fitting thing you 
introduced me to Spanx oh my God every 
woman's dearest friend is a good pair of 
Spanx or by the way I have friends that 
will wear two and three pairs of Spanx 
one on top of the other so just saying 
this has been a discovery this year like 
oh my God more than one like one is 
painful enough right yeah two and three 
oh my gosh oh my God uh if you're 
desperate maybe for a book thing I'll 
have to put on three oh my gosh that's 
so funny and your photos were so 
beautiful and maybe what we'll do as 
well with your permission we'll give you 
a little page on our site and we'll put 
some of your photos on there to show you 
guys if this you need somebody who's 
gonna speak truth to you like Sylvia's 
saying and saying you're beautiful 
you're hiding right you're hiding and 
sometimes we're hiding what we think 
our ages or we're hiding oh my gosh I'm 
not as fit as I want to be and we wear 
these things that hide our Beauty and so 
I'm here to tell you what Sylvia as 
living proof do not hide yourself you 
are beautiful as you are and have 
someone objective maybe it's a friend 
maybe it's a coach call me to tell you 
nah girl you gotta pop that Berry lip 
let's proof the hair a little bit let's 
get you in that let's get you that Red 
Dress moment whatever that is where you 
feel like Cinderella and then you become 
beautiful from the outside in and you 
carry that magic with you which is what 
you did at your photo shoot which was 
step one in attracting the boys to you 
so let's go there how was dating 
well 
um we started November 3rd 
and 
um 
November 3rd yeah I got a really good 
response I mean a lot of people were 
responding and I was messaging back 
and 
um 
you know 
uh Rudy 
uh the one I'm I'm with now 
um messaged me almost right away I click 
it like a weekend maybe and we started 
messaging a lot to each other 
um he was talking he asked about my book 
and so we talked a lot about my book and 
of course that already was winning my 
heart and 
um and then we were talking more 
literary things like about Hemingway 
and we we talked about you know we were 
messaging that and then anyway Eileen uh 
you uh 
has a session with me every two weeks to 
kind of talk about how things are going 
and she actually went goes on match with 
me like I have to give her my password 
and she goes on there and I'm a little 
freaking out over this and she's like 
looking at everything and then kind of 
giving me feedback on on what's going on 
and then she's you know she finally gets 
to Rudy and she's like who's this and I 
explain and she's like you guys are just 
messaging all the time like yeah well 
you got to get this going I'm like what 
do you mean she's like you can't be pen 
pals forever 
and I'm like I'm not gonna I'm not gonna 
start things you know just ask if he can 
go on video I'm the one we have to ask 
yeah yeah so she goes in there and she 
actually types it in for me with my 
permission I'm like she like types it 
and she's like can I press on I'm like 
go ahead go Eileen no Eileen this is 
what we do ladies and gentlemen we're in 
there we're in the weeds looking at your 
profiles sending those messages with 
your permission and then she hit send 
and there's no recovering from that 
yeah I I did not have the guts to do it 
so she kind of did it for me and he 
responded right away and said yes I'm 
like oh okay 
and then 
um so so that's how it started that's 
how it started and 
um we we had a first date tell us about 
the first date everybody wants to know 
now that he's been a fan of your book 
you guys you're an English teacher he's 
winning your heart with Hemingway what 
was that first date like 
it was nice it was a lunch uh at a 
restaurant in uh Oakbrook mall we 
decided it was kind of halfway between 
the two of us 
and you know we're all messed up still 
and 
um he walks in with a little uh a single 
rose oh and I'm like um like The 
Bachelor 
like so anyway we 
um hit it off we had a lot to talk about 
but you know you have this uh idea of 
the funnel and dating a lot of people at 
the same time 
I guess I and you know 
in all our conversations I was already 
prepped with what I want in a man so I 
already like and he asked like first 
date 
guess what do you want in Amanda and I'm 
like okay this is kind of it is a little 
bit of an interview 
and 
um so I told him exactly what I want you 
know uh Catholic 
um you know financially secure fun you 
know I had a list of things kind 
supportive a cheerleader all of your 
elevator qualities 
yeah and and I even said 
um 
you know I'm looking for long-term 
relationship eventually marriage in a 
Catholic Church you know I'm starting my 
annulment and this is what I want and I 
could tell he was like 
a little um 
taken aback you know he's like oh 
and I'm like okay well he asked I said 
you know and I'm like okay well we'll 
see what happens he asked me out again 
and then uh the second date he already 
declared himself 
like he wanted to like go exclusive and 
you know you still have a lot of nice 
things and this was already a dinner 
date and we're already like drinking a 
little and 
um 
and I'm like because of all my training 
with you I'm like oh no we can't go 
exclusive it's only the second day do 
y'all hear that say for the people in 
the back we can't go exclusive it's only 
the second date and Sylvia can you say 
inject what he does for work in general 
because I find it very interesting 
wow look at that so he's done his due 
diligence he knows what he wants he 
strolls in he says all right Sylvia I 
got this I want to be exclusive and 
Sylvia is trained and says 
I have to wait you know I just started I 
think the second date is too soon you're 
gonna have to be patient with me and 
then I said you know I'm not gonna get 
intimate with anyone until 15 days 
hahaha what Sylvia okay for those of you 
who have not worked with us okay we have 
graphs we have processes Sylvia's like 
telling you this is what we say like no 
sex until the 15th date right because 
there's no substitute in the dating 
process for time and when we have sex 
too early we're emitting oxytocin which 
is the attachment hormone which clouds 
our vision which makes us ignore red 
flags so I'm so proud of you for putting 
that out there on the second date saying 
okay this ain't going there until 15 
dates dude 
yeah and I and you know all the books I 
read also recommend that so it's so it's 
not just you out of the blue like like 
this is like backed by a lot of research 
and a lot of men even say that they 
respect the women for this 
um so anyway I'm like again and I liked 
it because I thought okay well this will 
be a good test and we'll see and I'll 
see how he reacts to this and I was also 
assuring him that yes I'm going to 
continue dating but I'm not gonna like 
be it like in that sense it relieved him 
that I wasn't going to be sleeping with 
other guys I think uh while I'm dating 
until I make up my mind and how do you 
react how did he react to this bombshell 
he was taken aback you know because of 
his profession and you know he's a very 
good looking man he's used to women 
going after him 
you know and kind of jumping him and and 
I'm like 
not 
and I mean I was interested but I was 
gonna do that I mean I couldn't even 
like ask him to get on video with me 
without your help so 
you're like I am not going to I'm not 
doing any of this so that's so that's 
awesome so all right so he's good he's 
in the game he's not he didn't walk out 
he didn't push his chair up and he just 
said okay I'll wait 
yeah and I you know before I started all 
this like I was telling my girlfriends 
kind of my philosophy and what I'm 
thinking and I'm saying you know they're 
telling me I'm supposed to wait 15 dates 
and all my girlfriends are like 15 dates 
are you kidding me no there's no way no 
man's gonna wait 15 days 
two or three three three tops but it's 
all that's all but no way you're crazy 
and I'm like I don't know that's what 
all the experts are saying I haven't 
done this in 37 years you know I think 
I'm gonna see what happens and like no 
it's not gonna work it's not gonna work 
and and so 
so anyway 
um he asked me out for the third date 
and uh we we it was like December now 
and we went to see the uh Christmas 
trees at the Museum of Science and 
Industry which was really a cute date 
there's a lot of walking and a lot of 
talking and we're getting to know each 
other and we have coffee and we're 
talking some more 
and 
um 
I guess 
um and then he asked me you know then he 
asked for the fourth day we saw Messiah 
uh 
he's picking some really good things oh 
my gosh he's planning these dates and 
you guys she has uh leveled her truth 
already I want to get married I want to 
get married in a Catholic Church I'm not 
going to sleep with you for 15 dates and 
this man is now planning the fourth date 
at the Messiah so what happens there at 
Orchestra Hall 
well we're walking we went to Berghoff's 
for uh dinner and then we're walking and 
he holds my hand the first this is like 
the first time he's touching me and he's 
holding my hand 
and I'm like to me you know for a woman 
for a man to hold her I think it's a big 
deal oh yeah it's super important I'm 
like already like seeing what this is 
like and he's wearing a glove like 
what and 
um and I wasn't and and he like barely 
like held my hand like it was like 
really like like my grant like I told 
him later like you held my hand when my 
grandmother would hold my hand and I'm 
very dainty very dainty and I didn't I 
it wasn't strong enough and I'm like 
afterwards like this was bothering me 
like I was kind of like making a big 
mountain out of a molehill over how how 
weekly uh he held my hand and I'm like I 
don't know if I'm gonna get into this 
man uh if this is how he's gonna hold my 
hand and then he asked me out to go on 
out on a Thursday the next Thursday and 
I already canceled because I'm like 
worried you know about this hand holding 
hahaha 
enter Eileen Collins what does Eileen 
say to you you're canceling the date 
because you thought he was a dainty hand 
holder this former federal agent okay 
suspend all disbelief here ladies and 
gentlemen 
so she's like you should give him 
another chance 
and I mean I was going to I just I was 
about to go on a on a two-week trip to 
Florida to visit a friend who had been 
asking me to visit her for five years 
and I always said no and now that I'm 
available and it's sabbatical and 
all that so I went to Florida and was 
there for a couple weeks 
and I was texting with Rudy and I'm 
thinking about it and thinking about it 
and finally I'm like let's plan the next 
you know can you plan the next date 
and then comes the fifth date when I'm 
back from Florida and this was kind of 
the where everything turned for me 
finally and uh it was a really cute date 
it was uh a cooking date where you're 
like cooking your dinner 
um it was in Glen Ellen and 
um it was a lot of fun and then 
afterwards we went to a bar and I just 
told them I said Rudy I really like you 
but 
um I'm worried about how you're holding 
my hands 
and you laid it out there you're a 
dainty hand holder Rudy and I'm a little 
I'm a little flummoxed with this right 
now 
and I said I'm like how could you have 
been a federal agent you know uh against 
criminals you hold my hand like my 
grandmother so anyway he was laughing 
and 
um and then he he held my hand and then 
he's like squeezing harder and he's like 
this I'm like harder like this no harder 
like this I'm like yeah now that's good 
he's like I was he said he was kind of 
scared and intimidated by me and that's 
why so so he was being respectful 
he was being respectful because you came 
in and said listen you know not all of 
our clients do this but Sylvia's very 
bold and brave as we know and she puts 
it out there right she put her family 
history out there she put it out there 
on the date about the 15 dates so he was 
a little scared of scaring her off and 
being too forward so he did the dainty 
hand hold and then when she's like yeah 
no that's freaking me out a little bit 
he didn't freak out and say listen 
you're bipolar or whatever like today 
you say this yesterday it's 15 dates 
what do you want me to do instead he's 
like how would you like me to do it and 
then what happens 
well and then he said you know uh I said 
I think I said 
we somehow the 15 day thing came up and 
he's like you know I'll wait forever I 
don't care how long it takes I'll wait 
forever and he's like Goosebumps 
and then he's like it's 15 months right 
and you're like no 15 days I'm not 
waiting 15 months but do you hear that a 
man that wants to be with you will move 
mountains to be with you he will wait 
for you an alpha high voltage male when 
he sees what he wants he will play the 
game by your rules as well so you said 
15 dates this man was ready to wait 15 
months 
I know I burst out laughing I'm like no 
it's just 15 days oh my God like two or 
three months oh my gosh and then what 
happened on the sixth date 
on the sixth date over like oh so wait I 
had you know I was taking notes and now 
I can't remember I can tell you it has 
to do with the Dozen Roses yes he 
brought a dozen roses 
I got a dozen roses 
and I I was floored 
um and then after that I canceled all 
other dates after that I was becoming 
exclusive even though uh you know we 
weren't because it wasn't 15 dates yet 
right we weren't sleeping together so we 
let we let Eileen was very adeptly 
handling the Sylvia Rudy situation and 
said okay you don't have to date other 
people because remember Eileen liked all 
of this from the get-go even with the 
dainty hand holding she's like yeah no 
no no no no we're gonna do this we're 
gonna take it to the video date okay so 
so now you are dating him you're not 
dating anybody else at this point and 
now you're going on dates ten dates 11 
what happens 
well um you know our feelings are you 
know what I liked about this 15 date 
rule is that your feelings really get uh 
D even without jumping in yeah uh and I 
and I really like that and he liked that 
too we started talking about that uh 
about how special everything was feeling 
because of that and I and I really liked 
that whole thing and and he did too 
um and you know he's like oh I would 
wait a hundred dates you know if I had 
to oh my God every time you say that the 
hair on my arm stands up with goosebumps 
if you guys could see Sylvia's face 
she's got this big smile I can see her 
on Zoom right now as we're recording so 
um and and now tell us about what 
happened before the 15th date on the 
13th date he 
well the 11th date this is important to 
me on the 11th day we went to mass 
together so already he's going to mass 
with me and he said he was Catholic but 
you know there's Catholics and there's 
Catholics and and I was kind of like 
does he know what to say does he know 
what to do does he don't understand and 
kneel and all that and he did something 
oh okay he you know he knows what he's 
doing 
um and then by the 13th date he said I 
love you 
oh my God lucky 13. I love you right and 
how did you feel were you expecting this 
no I mean I was feeling it and I kind of 
I felt that he felt it but I think he 
would say it and uh he said it and then 
of course I said it back and 
um it was a very special moment and then 
on the 14th day just to clarify he said 
I'm in love with you oh and uh oh God 
who else is melting right now 
so it was very beautiful it was a very 
very beautiful experience 
um and I really recommend it uh to wait 
the 15 days 
um it worked out really well and but you 
know then came the 15th day and I don't 
know if you saw Mamma Mia where she goes 
dot dot dot dot dot 
so you all know what happened we did the 
15 days and then we might have spent the 
weekend together 
yeah and it was very wonderful 
um and then things just deepened from 
there on and uh I don't know you know 
we've gone on three trips connected to 
my book already we've got three more 
planned connected to my book already he 
wants to go on all of them and 
supportive he wants you to be successful 
he loves what you're doing how amazing 
is that it's very wonderful it's very 
wonderful so so it's been great you know 
um I I know that I couldn't have done 
all this without your help I don't think 
I could have 
um not in the same way I wouldn't have 
had the same mindset I wouldn't have all 
the structure but 
um it worked like a term it worked well 
oh my gosh and now you guys have been 
together for five months huh 
yeah it's five months and you know I 
have this thing about counting hours 
together uh I read this study where uh 
it came out of Kentucky that said 
um to become really really good friends 
you need to spend at least 200 hours 
together face to face 
like in person and I said and I said 
this to Rudy on the second date and he's 
like oh you know when he already 
declared himself I told him this 200 
hour thing and he's like oh so I guess 
we've only been together for two hours 
I'm like 
yeah 198 more to go 
oh and that and now you've passed a 
thousand hours together yes now it's 
over a thousand hours yes oh my gosh 
amazing Sylvia Your Love Story it 
inspires us and we do this every day but 
the fact that you adhered to the rules 
you did this you took a leap Sylvia post 
divorce May 2021 the first thing you did 
was get help and educate yourself and 
you didn't mess around with doing this 
without guard rails because what happens 
to most people is we end up doing the 
same thing all over again and that's why 
those divorce statistics suck right if 
40 to 50 percent of first marriages end 
in divorce the data show that 67 of 
second marriages and 74 of third 
marriages so kudos to you for knowing 
yourself for doing your homework for 
finding the right home for you and I'm 
so delighted that your home was our home 
at Smart dating Academy and we're I just 
can't wait for your wedding 
you know I'm crashing it 
I'll let you know I mean nothing we both 
have to go through annulments and all 
that so 
um we'll see oh my gosh and how has your 
life you know your love is wonderful you 
have a supportive amazing partner who's 
traveling the world with you talking 
about your book and you know I promise 
we would Circle back a little bit 
because it's such a bombshell with 
regards to what you went through and I 
know you've been through as you thought 
your grandfather in your life was X and 
just like you said taking 10 years and 
you had to go through all those stages 
of grief and you would already grieved 
you've had so much grief you've lost a 
child which no one should you your 
marriage ended you found out something 
about your family that must have been I 
can't even imagine what that moment was 
like where it's like everything must 
have just Frozen for you 
yeah it was nuts I mean you know those 
uh five stage pages of a loss when you 
lose someone I went through 
um 
several times already but with with the 
book 
you know it was uh denial and depression 
and 
um bargaining I was at a point you know 
the bargaining one was really 
interesting because 
um I would bargain with God saying 
um I'm gonna work on this and look into 
my grandfather's Nazi uh 
um collaboration if there is such a 
thing but I really want to exonerate him 
I'll I'll look into the whole Nazi era 
on Lithuania if I can exonerate my 
grandfather deal is that a deal okay I'm 
gonna do that and of course I jump in 
and look and all I find out is more and 
more horrible information about my 
grandfather until I finally had to 
accept it and then uh then I hit anger 
and the anger fueled me to finally 
finish the writing and then and then I 
find the book 
um 
came out in 21 March 21. and now the 
paperback's coming out with the new 
title storm in the land of rain this 
June June 7th is coming out oh my gosh 
and we'll put a link to Sylvia's books 
and Sylvia tell us the title 
the hardback now is the Nazi's 
granddaughter how he discovered my 
grandfather's a war criminal oh my gosh 
how incredibly Brave courageous you are 
and you have been through hell's that no 
human should be and I am 
like I said just all the blood in my 
body is swirling I'm so happy for your 
happy endings I'm happy for your love 
with this amazing man Rudy I know if 
you're going to be married in a 
beautiful Catholic wedding in a 
beautiful Catholic Church I'm putting it 
out there God are you listening to me 
and and I know your book is going to be 
incredibly successful so ladies and 
gentlemen if Sylvia's inspired you feel 
free to help to help a sister out buy 
that book support her listen to her 
interviews and I hope I want to thank 
you Sylvia for telling us your story and 
I want you guys to know we're going to 
chant you 15 dates 15 days and there is 
a reason for this when you follow a 
process and if you need guard rails 
around you contact somebody get a 
therapist get a coach Sylvia went to a 
divorce support group at Old Saint Pat's 
church and at the end of that they said 
you need to talk to Smart dating Academy 
and she's like okay in addition to the 
100 dating books I've read I will go and 
file in Smart dating Academy so find the 
thing that you need and go do that 
because the definition of insanity is 
doing the same thing over and over again 
and expecting different results so to 
you my Brave bold you know friend in 
great love and this next 40 to 50 years 
of your life is going to be filled with 
all of the glitter and Sparkle that you 
deserve thank you so much for coming on 
and for inspiring me and for sharing 
your truths with us we're grateful 
thanks Bella it's been wonderful talking 
to you 
