when I hear people say oh um I have 
trouble with relationships because I had 
this really abusive boyfriend as a 
teenager and I'm like it didn't start as 
a teenager you picked him as a teenager 
because of something that happened 
really early and so spending the time to 
swim around your childhood and also to 
learn how to forgive your parents 
because most parents did the best they 
could with the tools they had and also 
um learning to manage feelings when I 
say happy people have happy 
relationships they're not happy all the 
time but when they're unhappy when 
they're angry when they're frightened 
they have really good coping strategies 
they know how to communicate their 
feelings they know who to reach out to 
who can help console them they know how 
to manage their feelings well so the 
feelings don't come out as you know 
erratic strange hurtful 
Behavior 
