[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love welcome back to 
the podcast ladies and gents I'm so 
excited to have with me my friend 
America's favorite divorce expert 
attorney mediator she's just and host of 
the divorce and Beyond podcast Susan 
Guthrie and Susan posted something 
really interesting recently on Instagram 
which caught my eye and it was the 
number one 
unexpected relationship killer 46 of 
divorced couples agree so of course I 
was like what is that and I started to 
read the study and there's some really 
interesting nuggets in there so Susan 
welcome back to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm so happy to be back fella 
thanks so much for having me and I agree 
with you this headline caught my eye as 
well okay Susan tell us I'm gonna hand 
the mic over to you tell us about the 
data you looked at the study and what 
you found 
yeah it was interesting it was actually 
yesterday I was scrolling through my 
news feed and I saw that headline that 
basically said that 46 of divorced 
couples say this was the number one 
cause of conflict in their relationship 
and as a divorce attorney for 30 years I 
thought I know what I I know that right 
I knew what that answer was going to be 
but then the rest of the headline said 
and it isn't money and I was like but 
wait a minute that's what I thought it 
was going to be right of course I had to 
scroll through right people are always 
fighting about money 
um but when I scrolled through I have to 
say I was very surprised to see what the 
number one cause of conflict was that 
these couples cited 
okay tell us should we do a drum roll no 
let's do drumroll done 
you can do your magic wands and do our 
drum roll exactly so the number one 
cause of conflict was career choices 
between the spouses which I thought was 
so interesting and did they talk about 
what that means is it I'm choosing not 
to work and you dear husband will work 
or is it what I do for work and what he 
does for work like what did it say I'm 
so fascinated you know it and I will say 
it didn't go too deeply into it in the 
background information so those are 
questions that I would have as well but 
what it did seem to say is it's an 
amalgamation of issues all those things 
that you just mentioned are a part of 
this so it might be part of the the 
situation and I will tell you as a 
divorce attorney I've seen all of these 
be a part of the Paradigm between a 
couple that is you know really sort of 
worked at the under paintings of that 
relationship some of it might be one 
party is a stay-at-home or lesser 
earning spouse in order to take care of 
the family but that over time starts to 
cause resentment on the part of the one 
who's going out and being the 
breadwinner I've seen that 
um I've seen situations and it sort of 
alluded to this where 
career changes or career choices have 
brought about lifestyle changes for a 
family or for a couple I mean you know 
we were just talking about I moved to 
Chicago from Beautiful Sunday San Diego 
for my husband's career and let me tell 
you he pays for that sometimes every 
once in a while usually during the 
Chicago Winters 
um but right so so there may be 
relationship or 
um issues that have come about as a 
result of some of the choices that need 
to be made 
um but I think it all comes down to 
um really you know it's hard to 
prioritize two careers in one 
relationship 
no and that's so true Susan I think at 
Smart dating Academy we clearly see 
people that come out of divorce or you 
know I can say out of even a breakup 
maybe there wasn't an official divorce 
but and then as they get back into the 
dating world the question is who do I 
look for this time around and I'll tell 
you career choices from my vantage point 
right and you just mentioned you've got 
a big career you're an entrepreneur a 
podcaster a public speaker your husband 
is a CEO c-suite person right two big 
careers my husband and I similar two big 
careers we've got a 15 year old and a 19 
year old at home and what I tell people 
in this you can be with anybody okay you 
can have a big career he can have a big 
career you can both be retired whatever 
that is but 
are you going to align with each other 
and as you're getting into the 
relationship understand 
how are you going to prioritize each 
other how were you both going to feel 
like you are getting what you want from 
my vantage point I may have to go at the 
drop of the hat tomorrow to go to New 
York City to do a show Andy might have 
to go to Tulsa Oklahoma for a three-day 
work conference for one of his clients 
but for both of us no matter what the 
dollar amount has been and our dollars 
have changed over the years there are 
years he's out earned me there are years 
I've out earned him but what we have 
always vowed to do is support the other 
person not necessarily support who's got 
the bigger paycheck at that moment and 
that person becomes more important 
because to your point what does that do 
it breeds resentment as soon as one 
person becomes more important you feel 
like well I'm just the less important 
sidekick so really having these 
conversations how are you going to 
navigate this could not be more crucial 
so really at the end of the day what so 
much of divorce and breakups what it's 
caused by is not 
anticipating what the issues could be 
and then communicating about it and 
using your voice 
yeah and you know you've just used the 
two words that I think are the most 
critical in all of this is the 
anticipating that's one of the reasons 
why I posted this study is I I think 
it's really very valuable for people 
going into relationships to your 
listeners right now to people who your 
clients at Smart dating Academy I know 
you work with them on this type of 
awareness of the issues that might arise 
in relationships because you if you 
think about these things ahead of time 
you can do the next important thing that 
you mentioned you can communicate about 
them and I will tell you you know this 
survey was really about what causes 
conflict 
underneath I think every single one of 
the things or at least many of the 
things that were in that top list of 
seven reasons that are seven things that 
cause conflict a lot of that comes down 
to at its core poor communication around 
those issues 
um so ultimately maybe communication is 
really the the bottom line 
um because when resentment builds if 
you're not communicating about that 
resentment it just it continues to grow 
right in these relationships absolutely 
and with regard to LeapFrog off of your 
point about communication the thing that 
underlies communication is the ethos 
with which you're looking at your 
relationship you were the most important 
person in my life you are the lid to my 
pot and I want you to be happy right and 
when you look at your partner in that 
way you're communicate education and 
what you want for them also greatly is 
affected versus just the sheer I want 
this and I want this right we're so 
often that's what we think communication 
is but number one it's looking at your 
person saying I really want you to be 
happy and I want you to be the best 
version of yourself and I want you to 
grow and they want the same for you so 
when you look at each other with those 
lenses truly your communication will be 
much clearer and it's going to result in 
a win-win because you both want the best 
for each other right it's like wow if 
I've got to go to New York and you've 
got to go to Tulsa at the same time can 
we Loop in one of our parents or our 
Nanny like how do we support each other 
versus 
frictionalizing something so simple 
right and and unfortunately 
you know there's that that famous book 
um difficult conversations and how to 
have them 
people look at these conversations as 
difficult conversations and they don't 
have them they sort of avoid them 
um or they come at them I think it's 
really important what you just said from 
that eye perspective of what I want as 
opposed to that eye perspective I want 
you to be happy so although it's still I 
want the focus is on the other person 
um and and you know unfortunately 
that is a cycle at least that I have 
seen as a divorce attorney so again I'm 
seeing relationships that have ended 
that have come to a point that could not 
be say they could not be saved right 
um 
where that lack of communication that 
resentment the conflict it's an ongoing 
cycle it doesn't end it builds and until 
it gets to that point and for some 
couples it's a short period of time I 
just saw something that flashed across 
my screen that said Britney Spears and 
her husband are getting a divorce after 
13 months of marriage right so you might 
see a short-term marriage I know it just 
came across as we were as we're talking 
here so I'll throw it out there right 
short term or I've I think the longest 
marriage that I ever 
um handled in my career as a divorce 
attorney was something along the lines 
of 48 years a couple who had been 
together but by the time they got to 
that end point resentment was a great 
deal of of what I would say and it you 
know whether it was over career choices 
or decisions that they had made there 
are a number of other reasons for 
conflict between couples that this study 
found 
but at the very end of it these were two 
people who barely knew each other 
because they hadn't communicated for so 
much of that time period 48 years right 
and why are we not communicating that's 
really the question to get at right to 
what somebody feels slighted we feel 
less important we feel hurt we feel shut 
out and so we shut down so it's mining 
the reasons underneath to get back to 
that level of communication but to your 
point you know I love John gottman is 
the famous marriage researcher that 
looked at couples for years and years in 
his Seattle love labs and got it down to 
I think within 10 seconds he could ask a 
couple like tell me about a conflict you 
have in your marriage and by watching 
their body language for 10 seconds he 
could predict with 95 accuracy which of 
those couples would go on to stay 
married and which would go on to divorce 
right and I think the four horsemen that 
he talks about are criticism 
contempt 
defensiveness and stonewalling right and 
if you think about that and in 10 
seconds he can call that so there are so 
many feelings that lead to that lack of 
communication and gottman on this point 
Susan of communication says something 
that I find so funny and so accurate and 
I'm sure as a long-term married person 
you will too it's like you know at the 
end of the day sometimes communication 
can be overrated like just agree that 
there are things that you're going to 
disagree about and when you start to go 
down those dark Pathways gottman says 
have a funny lighten it up like stick 
your tongue out of each other like 
basically that means this is our agree 
to disagree mode so let's just not go 
there and know we don't need to 
communicate about this because we don't 
see eye to eye so let's stick to the 90 
of stuff that we do agree on and I'm 
like I think that's genius right I love 
it and I won't tell you what David and I 
use as our little symbol but uh 
yeah we we double flip the bird at each 
other and start laughing because that's 
our you know we don't disagree at that 
level very often but you're right I uh 
gottman is the you know really the gold 
standard of relationship information 
besides you 
um and 
um and you know absolutely and I will I 
will tell you those The Four Horsemen of 
those four contempt is the one that I I 
have seen most often as a divorce 
attorney and it's interesting because 
in relationships and I'm thinking of 
what this survey said about career 
choices bringing about conflict 
contempt or belittling the partner who's 
not earning as much or who doesn't have 
the biggest job or whatever that is 
um comes out as contempt from the one 
partner to the to the other and uh you 
know that that made me think of that 
when you were saying that because that's 
what I then see if I've represented the 
party who was the bigger bread winner or 
the bigger career person they very much 
felt they had contempt for the lack of 
income or lack of importance of the job 
of their spouse meanwhile they probably 
made the decision that that person would 
be a stay-at-home parent or would put 
their career in a lesser mode or maybe 
they were very happy doing something 
that wasn't as high-powered as the other 
one but now it shows it's contempt right 
right right and I think you know about 
career choices and for those of you who 
are in the dating pool right you know 
it's like wow I'd like my partner to 
have tons of money and be really 
successful and not be a workaholic and 
have good work life balance at the end 
of the day this is an arena where most 
likely you're not gonna get it all and 
there are going to be trade-offs right 
and so how do you think the person got 
super successful not by you know a 
four-hour work week sorry I don't know 
who the hell that works for Tim Ferriss 
which certainly doesn't work for me I 
wish I wish it worked right it sold out 
a lot of books that's for sure including 
me I was like wow yeah no that didn't 
work for me I'm gonna go back to the 
40-hour work week or so so really right 
you work more than 40 hours I know you 
yeah yes 100 so it really you know 
you're you're gonna have to choose 
things so you may not need as much money 
as you think you do you might want 
someone who makes enough to pay the 
bills but can also have dinner with you 
five nights a week and is going to be 
home and can take trips and can do 
things and can binge a Netflix series 
with you and isn't going to be gone five 
days a week traveling every single week 
right I mean I've been through all these 
phases with my husband and I can tell 
you some of them cause more chaos and 
tumult to our relationship so I can tell 
you really as you're out there think 
about wow what do what do I want to feel 
in this relationship this time around 
and don't get so caught up in the 
standard checklist of things that you 
want so that's my public service 
announcement for people that are as 
we're talking about career choices it's 
really easy to say yeah I want the 
person who's got two commas in their and 
their salary and blah blah blah but ask 
yourself do you want all the entrapments 
that come with that yeah yeah I mean 
it's making me think of the number one 
thing you tell me people always ask for 
on their wish list and that's someone 
who's tall but uh you know tall 
a CEO Rich who's home all the time 
except when I don't want them to be 
you know 
exactly who's at my beck and call but 
still lets me go on girls weekends but 
wants to be with me all day and can just 
unplug it's like wow that's Disney 
that's not real life right so and and 
sometimes I think people get caught in 
relationships with those expectations 
it's like well 
he's never home or she's never home it's 
like what did you think was gonna happen 
right do you think things were going to 
magically change when you got married no 
your problems when you're dating become 
your problems when you're married 
except except exacerbated right because 
now you're married and now you you might 
add children into this mix or joint 
finances or all the other things that we 
we know that can go on that add 
additional stressors and I do think that 
that's something that people you know 
need to be aware of because we're 
talking about career choices but that's 
the other thing you were talking about 
awareness earlier being aware of so that 
you can communicate about these 
potential causes of conflict face it 
every relationship friends family 
spouses significant others all 
relationships are going to experience 
Conflict at some point in time 
so having 
something and having some awareness of 
what might arise and having 
um put some thought on your own part as 
to what's a priority and what's 
important to you because you're going 
and talking about it throughout having 
that ability to have the open 
communication about it because I was 
looking at some of the other things on 
the list here so number two was 
parenting differences which I tell this 
to people all the time because you know 
when people are going through divorce 
they almost never agree on what is in 
the best interest of their children 
right it seems like such a simple 
standard yet they you know never do but 
the reality is married couples don't 
agree on what is best for their children 
all the time either 
um you know so that doesn't surprise me 
that it's there but the number three one 
I wanted to touch on because this is one 
that I've definitely seen and it kind of 
goes back to the career choices I think 
is the division of household labor 
um that was a biggie 
um way ahead of finances way about 
arguing over money although maybe that 
comes into it in the division of 
household labor but 
um I think that that one is is something 
that could be talked about and 
communicated about uh and we should be 
thinking about as we go into 
relationships as well should I give you 
should I give our listeners the quote I 
gave you when we were prepping for this 
for all of you ladies out there that are 
listening I have been known to say for 
the last decade right I'm an Ardent 
feminist and but I say feminism is an 
ant right 
we now get to work 
and we get to do all the things we've 
done domestically for the last thousands 
and thousands of years it's been an and 
we haven't 
successfully 
transitioned those responsibilities and 
really getting that division of labor I 
have so many friends that are double 
income Working Families they husband 
works wife works or you know wife wife 
whatever it is both partners are working 
there are kids at home and it is hard 
right the division of labor the driving 
around the prepping the cooking the 
cleaning the deep cleaning right the 
thinking about who's going to pay the 
bills oh my God we need a new car all of 
those things and the couples a statistic 
I read a couple of months ago I couldn't 
agree with more and I've been talking 
about this to our smart daters that are 
in our VIP coaching at Smart dating 
Academy is the relationships that are 
predicted to do the best long term Susan 
gets at the point of this study are more 
they called it androgynous and I don't 
know if that's a cancelable word right 
now but work with me here basically 
where both people are doing very similar 
things they're pulling their weight 
outside of the home and they're pulling 
their weight inside of the home and 
those will be the happiest long-term 
relationships going forward 
yeah and and I I had not read that study 
but it's making me think of another 
headline I saw recently and I'll have to 
find it but it was about this 
concept that is so hardwired into us 
that women are caregivers and men are 
the hunter Hunters right they are the 
the bring home the bacon and women are 
the caregivers and and people have a 
belief that that is hardwired into our 
DNA and in fact Studies have shown that 
to not be true at all 
and that men are just as able and and 
giving of caregiving as women and women 
have just as much ability but we 
societally if I said that correctly but 
generally 
yeah we have genderized this into the 
little woman and the big strong man sort 
of concept and because we are so 
socialized to it we actually believe 
it's in our DNA we actually believe that 
it's a part of you know if you're a 
woman this is your you are a more 
nurturing you know individual and if you 
are a man you are more you know I don't 
know manly 
um and so I thought that was that was 
truly you know a very very interesting 
thing because we don't 
we don't but we buy into it 100 until it 
doesn't suit us I also see you know at 
the time of divorce and I'll say this 
and this won't be super positive for 
some of the women listening but I always 
hear this as well at the time of the 
divorce that well I'm the mother I 
should have the children with me all of 
the time I'm the caretaker I am the one 
who should you know have them they 
should be with me that's normal that's 
natural that's the way things should be 
and when I point out dads are just as 
capable of nurturing and caring and and 
maybe it's this societal Norms that 
we're living along with 
um you know we get a little bit of 
pushback on that at the same time so 
what you were saying about the the 
um feminism we also play into it to a 
certain degree I mean we have to have 
our realizations that uh yes we can rail 
against it but we've also played into it 
a certain bit we don't get to be the 
caregiver and then complain about being 
the caregiver perhaps if you know what I 
mean am I making any sense no perfectly 
and I think Society also rewards us and 
yet repudiates us for doing it so I 
think that there's so many gender 
politics and Dynamics behind this but I 
love the fact that it's not built into 
us we're not wired for certain things we 
might have a uterus and can build a baby 
and then birth the baby and we've got 
more oxytocin which is the attachment 
hormone right which makes us not throw 
our babies out of the window and you 
know do those kinds of things but I 
think long term you're exactly right and 
I couldn't agree with your data more 
right like I'm the harder parent to some 
extent with more rules more you know 
boundaries on money and curfews and Andy 
is more the soft teddy bear that they 
will go to like can we can I have 50 
bucks because I really want to do this 
and I'm like wait a second that's coming 
out of your account so at the end of the 
day you can say is that nurturing or is 
that not nurturing at the end of the day 
right and that's my DNA like you say 
you're gonna do this this is what you're 
gonna do period right so 
so and he's the softer one so and I 
don't think he was genderized to be that 
way nor was I genderized to be this way 
so I agree with you I agree with your 
observation in the headline that you 
read that a lot of this is you are who 
you are you do you Boo and pick a 
partner that compliments who you are 
ultimately right it's not about tall and 
sexy and who's making what kind of money 
there's way bigger things at play here 
and I know you know we've got people 
know us and we've got all sorts of rules 
right there's a 15-day Rule and there's 
exclusivity and we're going to have a 
dating funnel now why do we do all of 
that people it's for precisely these 
reasons we are kicking the tires and 
helping you to ask the questions that 
you don't know how to ask or you might 
not even want to ask them and we're 
going no no you're going to ask this 
question right now right and really 
helping to say is this partner going to 
be good for me long term are we aligned 
do we want the same things do we value 
each other in the ways we want to be 
valued that's what partner selection and 
that's what dating should ultimately 
bring you 
yeah you know what you just said 
something that I think is really really 
important because you you said we help 
people ask the questions and people may 
be taking that as you give them the 
questions to ask the potential 
significant other but I think one of the 
most valuable things that I know that 
you do is they actually give them the 
questions to ask themselves like you 
just did right there right that's what 
the the magic of Bella Gandhi and the 
Smart dating Academy is right that's 
that I don't know that people truly 
understand is this isn't all about how 
to make yourself look pretty to a 
potential mate or attract somebody it is 
truly about getting to know yourself at 
that granular level and getting to know 
this potential spouse 
or potential you know significant other 
um in a way that because you know 
yourself so well and you've gotten to 
know them that well you know whether 
those two are going to be able to come 
together 
and that's the beauty really it is 
it is and and it's it's 
the most important thing you can do is 
to Susan's Point know yourself know what 
you want and then have the courage to 
ask the questions this reminds me of the 
story of one of my best friends who 
um we went at my own wedding she had 
been dating this guy she was a 
bridesmaid in my wedding one of my two 
childhood best friends and she had been 
dating a guy for a year and a half who 
was a few years older than us and he was 
super into playing soccer right he 
played soccer at his little Milwaukee 
college and played pickup games and so 
she's in my wedding giving a speech the 
day before the wedding he says to her 
you know what I'm not going to be able 
to go to the wedding we're gonna we 
decided the guys are gonna play soccer 
tomorrow 
and I was like 
hold up he just left you dateless at 
your best friend's wedding which has 
been on the calendar for months 
so that was a giant red flag for me so 
now a year later right waving NASCAR red 
flag so a year later I'm married our 
other best friend is now engaged and my 
girlfriend is crying going I don't know 
I don't know where this is going and I 
said I want you to ask him one question 
and she's like anything mind you we are 
27 years old I said ask him are you 
going to marry me 
she's like well I I don't I I I'm sure 
he would I I said I want you to ask him 
this question tonight and I want you to 
call me as soon as you ask him the 
question 
Susan she called him asked him the 
question 
are you going to marry me they had been 
together for over three and a half years 
and he looked at her and he said 
now 
that weekend 
I got a pickup truck 
my two best friends 
Andy we went and we moved her out of his 
apartment while she was at work she came 
home 
looked at us all of her stuff was packed 
up we had told her parents we were 
bringing her back home to Libertyville 
she looked at us she cried we had pizza 
we put her back in the truck she is now 
happily married and has two daughters 
one of whom was going to Indiana with my 
daughter so I will tell you the right 
questions are crucial and this was far 
before I started Smart dating Academy in 
fact she was one of the ones who was 
like you need to do this and teach 
people how to do this because I could 
have waited forever but you made me ask 
the question that I didn't have the 
courage to ask and then you made me act 
on it she's like you moved me out 
basically if you don't remember your 
pickup truck was involved right ladies 
and gentlemen so if you need this kind 
of help we're we're full service at 
Smart dating Academy pick up truck and 
all just kidding but really asking the 
right question that was in our 20s asked 
the questions today okay think of what 
you want and don't be afraid and if you 
need help at sussing out how to do this 
in a relationship that you're in for 
God's sake there are so many people out 
there schedule a session with me go to 
our website sign up listen to podcast 
episodes but don't stew in this and most 
importantly don't have to do this on 
your own anymore there are resources 
listen to Susan her podcast the divorce 
and Beyond podcast is phenomenal Susan 
is a recent breakout television Star as 
well you can see her on the national 
news Nation show if you tune in and 
she's an amazing wealth of information 
tune back into our podcast sign up for 
our our newsletter go to 
smartdatingacademy.com fill out any form 
get with it you guys take the power that 
you have inside of you to know yourself 
to know what you want in dating to know 
what you need to know how you want to 
feel and do something beautiful for 
yourself today so until next week I bid 
you farewell and give you tons of 
psychotic optimism in that pickup truck 
I rented for my girlfriend so if you 
need it consider that pickup truck of 
psychotic optimism it just landed in 
your driveway so we'll see you next week 
