[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back this week's 
episode we're going to get right to it 
we're going to talk about dating we're 
going to talk about love we're going to 
talk about manifesting love and Quantum 
love and sex and dating and 
relationships and everything you 
probably thought about or maybe never 
thought about and I have one of my 
favorite people here with us who 
is Dr Laura Berman and I met Dr Berman 
in a studio at WGN TV about a decade ago 
and I had heard so many great things 
about her and we were sitting in a green 
room together and just chit-chatting and 
we were on a panel to talk about 
romantic comedies with a comedian who 
during the segment I don't know if you 
remember I know he sort of climbed into 
my lap he might have climbed into yours 
too but it was definitely a great way to 
be introduced so Dr Berman Laura my 
friend thank you so much for being here 
I'm so happy to be here of course 
anything for you you guys and just in 
case you've been living you know in a 
cave and you don't know who Dr Laura 
Berman is she is a therapist she's 
brilliant she specializes in sex love 
and relationships author of nine books 
award-winning radio and TV host has had 
four TV series on own showtime and 
Discovery Health and everybody loves Dr 
Laura Berman so Laura tell us how did 
you get into the work that you do I have 
no freaking idea no honey 
it's like with everything else the one 
thing I will say that my you know my 
parents did a God bless them were 
wonderful parents they did a lot wrong 
just like we do just like we all do 
um but one of the things they did right 
I think is that they pounded into my 
head all the way through and especially 
as I was in college and thinking about 
my future just do what inspires you and 
success will follow just do what 
inspires you just major in what inspires 
you just go to grad you know just do and 
they would every time I'd be like well I 
don't know if I'm you know don't I have 
to support myself I have you know so I I 
definitely had that Foundation that I 
think 
because you know who makes a career out 
of being a sex love and relationship at 
least when I was doing it you know 20 
years ago right it's not something that 
you would imagine 
um but now it's commonplace I mean 
nobody was a sex therapist back then in 
fact most people confused Sex Therapy 
with sex surrogacy so when they would 
meet me in here I was a sex therapist 
they thought I was actually paid to have 
sex with people 
um so that way you're not you're not no 
no that hasn't been a career path I've 
pursued although more power to those 
that do 
um it's illegal in most States but you 
know Nevada it's not 
um but no I think it was just that I 
grew up in that kind of family and also 
in a family that for good and for bad 
was extremely open and comfortable with 
sexual topics and exposed me to a lot so 
I was super comfortable with it and I 
was also 
you know my parents therapist from the 
really from before I was born my mother 
conceived me when my dad got drafted to 
Vietnam so that she she had my sister 
who was four years older but she wanted 
a baby to cuddle and to comfort her 
while she was missing my dad so she 
conceived me with that intention uh and 
I was and I fulfilled that intention I 
was born while he was still gone 
um and I was there I was my mother's 
nurturer and my parents therapist from 
the time I could speak 
um so I come to it very naturally and I 
think that's why I was drawn to therapy 
to couples therapy and the sex thing 
just sort of happened by accident 
because it naturally folded into the 
couple's work I did and I was shocked 
when none of my supervisors or 
professors or bosses 
even though they were all couples 
therapists didn't discuss sex that was 
so bizarre to me and still is 
um 
and so I went on to get specific 
training because they couldn't help me 
learn how to help couples with their sex 
lives so I did and then that's that's 
the 
convoluted story at all it's just you 
know that's what I think it is for all 
of us those things that are natural 
gifts the gifts that are cultivated in 
our childhood and sometimes you know the 
things found in our in our deepest 
heartbreak or our deepest traumas are 
all of that is where we find our gifts 
and our life purpose yeah and it sounds 
like I didn't know all I this is why I 
love doing this podcast I get to learn 
amazing things about people it's such a 
much deeper level than I knew before so 
right you were created to nurture and to 
be your mom's therapist and cuddler from 
day one and what's so inspiring and I 
hope if you're out there listening to 
this because your parents didn't let you 
do what you wanted to do or didn't 
inspire you to find your gifts that it's 
never too late if you know what you want 
to do go do that and here's a person who 
was very blessed Laura to do her thing 
and when you do what you love people 
detect that passion right and that's how 
you've been on television you've been on 
radio shows you've been hosts you are a 
host because people sense that 
authenticity and that sincerity of you 
being in flow knowing what you're 
supposed to do and doing it and loving 
it and wanting to share that with the 
world that's really what makes you 
magnetic and I think you know segwaying 
beautifully into your expertise and what 
you know the purpose of I know this 
podcast is 
discovering finding calling in love 
right 
um that's there's no stronger 
aphrodisiac and magnetic pull than being 
truly in your most authentic passionate 
expression in the world 
um I just don't I don't think there's 
anything more attractive attractive and 
attracting than that 
okay so let's dive into that I know 
you've been talking a lot about 
manifesting love so tell us about how do 
we get to this version of ourselves 
right as women we might have been 
caretaking and nurturing and and 
providing for so many other people that 
when it all strips away and maybe we 
find ourselves prematurely widowed maybe 
we find ourselves coming out of an 
unexpected divorce maybe we find 
ourselves never having met the lidoor 
pop because we don't know why how do we 
discover that how do we discover that 
yeah well and by the way when you peel 
all that caretaking and who I am to 
everyone else in the world very often we 
find there's we're not even sure what 
else is Left Right like who the hell am 
I if I'm not this person's wife now that 
I'm not their wife or these or my 
parents caretaker or my children's you 
know caretaker or whatever or my friends 
um you know and I've certainly Fallen 
prey to that in my life talk about that 
a lot how you know we can that was my 
upbringing and that was my conditioning 
so I had to uncondition myself from 
feeling responsible for everyone and 
everything around me right and my Mantra 
is just because I can fix this doesn't 
mean it's my job too you know that's 
what I have to always say to myself 
um because otherwise you make yourself 
sick and you drain yourself of your life 
force and you also don't have the energy 
Focus or time to follow follow your 
passion so one of the worst lines in all 
the best romantic comedies that have 
ever been is Jerry Maguire's you 
complete me you know when he says that 
and people swooned at the time even back 
then I was like what the hell you know 
nobody completes you 
um and I think that is something that we 
unconsciously have fallen into many of 
us especially as women 
um you know we found our identity 
outside ourselves I think men do this 
too but outside ourselves in terms of 
um you know 
I you know we I'm only gonna be okay if 
you if you're okay with me right there's 
that inherent thing and a lot of that 
has to do with our upbringing bringing 
but I think a lot of it has to do with 
our socialization as women totally 
um so I think finding Dr tedai Trent is 
one of my favorite human beings author 
she wrote a beautiful book called 
awakened women she or woman awakened 
woman she was uh she's famous for being 
Oprah's Favorite guest 
um what was her name Dr taradai Trent 
she's an African woman who when she was 
12 years old 
um you know she she was married 
basically when she was 12 or 13 had 
several kids by the time she was 14 
lived in a tiny village in Africa and 
one of these you know heifer Society 
groups came through 
um of Charity workers and this woman sat 
all the women in the village the mothers 
and daughters in her Circle and said you 
can achieve anything you want to you 
your dreams can be you know there's 
nothing too big or small and she asked 
them what is your dream and teredai was 
astounded because like she'd never even 
considered having a dream and what was 
her dream like you could have a dream 
you know she'd been married since she 
was 14 and had three or four children 
and lived in a tiny village in Africa 
and and she said and she realized in 
that moment my dream is to have an 
education I want an education so she did 
what her mother told her and she put her 
dream I want to get an education and she 
wrote her special dream in a box and she 
buried that box in the dirt in the edges 
of her African village she went on to 
get I think two phds 
um she's built endless schools in Africa 
she now raises money to give education 
to girls in Africa 
um She's So inspiring you definitely 
follow her check her out but one of the 
things that she said as we were talking 
about this topic years ago similar you 
know along these lines and I've never 
forgotten this and I think about it all 
the time is your greatest purpose which 
is what we're talking about when you're 
living your true authentic purpose 
that's when the magnetic stuff happens 
right your greatest purpose is found in 
your greatest heartbreak always you want 
to find your purpose what breaks your 
heart 
right it may be that what breaks your 
heart is 
the girls in Africa who don't have an 
education right and like you it broke 
your heart to be at the effect of this 
abusive husband and no future and life 
just what had been told to you and you 
know it broke your heart not to have 
access to education and that became her 
passion right for someone else it may be 
you know going through the death of a 
loved one or going through a terrible 
illness or going through a terrible 
divorce or being betrayed or going 
through a horrible chronic illness and 
it's so hard and heartbreaking and so 
unmooring you know and and such a huge 
what I like to call afge another [ __ ] 
growth experience extraordinaire just I 
love that acronym you've coined breaks 
you open right that is always 
where you find your greatest purpose 
because as you heal you learn and as you 
learn you can create share teach heal 
others you know it comes from that place 
and I think that really is where we find 
our soul path and where we find our 
purpose and the other place you find 
your purpose which and these don't have 
to be mutually exclusive 
um but they can be is what you would do 
for free you know because so often and I 
talk to my girlfriends about this all 
the time I have this friend who I've 
forced her to claim that she is A Course 
in Miracles coach because she has been 
doing it non-stop for 20 years you know 
it's 365 days she does it every single 
morning I'll say we'll be talking about 
something she'll say well you know the 
course says and she'll pull she just 
knows every day she knows all the layers 
she speaks about it so beautifully she's 
one of my greatest teachers and because 
she wasn't officially I don't even know 
why just because of her own worthiness 
issues she's like no no I can't call 
myself a coach I I'm a student I'm like 
cut the crap you're a coach you're a 
freaking coach 
um she's like I don't think I can put 
freaking coach on my bike 
but but we have such a hard time she's 
like that's just what I do that's just 
what I love that just comes naturally to 
me and I'm like yeah and that's your 
purpose right like so what you would do 
for free what you love to do when no 
one's looking what comes naturally to 
you we don't think of as part of our 
purpose or our greatest gifts or our 
greatest authentic expression but boy is 
that at the center of it and then if you 
put that together with your greatest 
heartbreak you know you may end up 
crocheting blankets for PTSD and 
Military bats right your greatest 
heartbreak is related to the PTSD your 
greatest passion and joy is crocheting 
boom you put them together and you have 
an outselling you know that's Etsy store 
right the next thing you know exactly 
and just because you would do it for 
free doesn't mean you have to do it bro 
yeah that's where you fine just like you 
would give 
you know dating advice right if you 
didn't weren't doing this you probably 
would just be kibbetsing with people on 
the corner and with your friends and in 
the car you know you that's what you'd 
be doing right because you love doing it 
you love helping people find love and 
helping them uncover their own 
Michelangelo sculpture truth you know to 
attract others and you know you'd be 
doing it for free if you weren't doing 
it for a career I'm guessing 100 but 
you're spot on I made two lists you know 
and I've probably told you this story 
before dear listener about how I got 
into this crazy business and I was I'm a 
finance major I have a German degree I 
ran a manufacturing company but all the 
while I was everybody's dating Oracle 
and why it came out of my biggest 
heartbreak I had a pretty painful you 
know dopamine written it was like the 
high highs the low closed captioning not 
available 
conversation so for you 
that are single or even in a 
relationship being magnetic maybe to 
bring in a partner maybe to bring in 
more friends more amazing relationships 
who all by the way lead to Partners 
exactly 100 right because we're we're 
all inherent yentas and matchmakers yes 
your new friend is going to be like oh 
my God my cousin would love you you know 
yeah that's how it happens you know we 
did an episode a few weeks ago about 
living your own independent life which 
makes you more attractive be complete in 
yourself I'd say if once you are that's 
why no one can complete you if you are 
your whole and this is what I always try 
to explain to people if you are your 
whole 
unbelievably gorgeously delicious cake 
and you are just living in your juicy 
sugary yumminess you're living your life 
you're following your passions you're 
living authentically you're in flow a 
lot of the time you know we can talk 
about the quantum reasons why this works 
in a minute but when you do that and you 
are your whole delicious cake then 
someone else is like the yummy sprinkles 
and icing right it makes it even better 
and you definitely you know enjoy cake 
with icing and you want cake with icing 
if you're you know I'm I sometimes I 
even leave the cake and just eat the 
icing personally I love icing right but 
whatever it is that other person is the 
icing and decoration on your cake not 
the cake itself and you that's where we 
fall short I think is when we feel like 
we're missing an ingredient or we or 
we're unable and unwilling to do what it 
takes to take the emotional risk 
sometimes and even the literal risks to 
follow our passions and be our most 
authentic selves and grow into our own 
delicious cake but that's when all the 
yummy things happen 
uh 100 that is when all the Yum happens 
and well tell let's let's get in to 
Quantum love I love this I love how you 
came to the concept of quantum love so 
just talk to us about what it is the 
tenants what you need to do I would just 
love to sit here and be the audible and 
read Quantum love to this entire 
audience so if you guys have not read it 
please go get it five minutes ago so I 
turn it over to you yeah I mean I've 
written nine books like you said and 
this is by far my most personal and most 
favorite and I've never said that about 
a book before 
um but 
I it grew out of my own pain 
um the pain afg my big old afge followed 
by you know the after Quakes 
um I lost my mother who I was extremely 
close to I think it was only 40 at the 
time 
um to breast what was originally breast 
cancer that metastasized 
um and I did get time to be with her and 
to say goodbye but it was the hugest 
most significant 
painful soul-wrenching I mean she was 
my baby and I was hers from the time I 
was conceived right so we were really 
enmeshed and had a really beautiful 
complicated but very beautiful and deep 
loving relationship and very corded 
energetically to each other and 
emotionally so when she went that was an 
earthquake in my life and within a year 
I just kept on I was filming a show on 
OWN I was like you know moving through 
go go go go I got [ __ ] to do and and I 
also bypassed a little bit oh she's 
still here you know I got a little 
woo-woo a bad and spiritual which was 
all true but I was kind of leaning on 
that rather than really just being with 
myself and feeling my pain and like all 
of us do and within a year I had cancer 
uh with no risk factors because she you 
know it wasn't genetic or hormone 
related but in the same breast she had 
breast cancer 
um and it was very sudden and I had to 
stop my life for almost a year chemo 
herceptin mastectomy reconstruction 
um and while that was all happening on 
their heels of the beloved grandmother 
dying and then their mother going 
through chemo and getting bald and being 
sick my kids all started to lose it as 
well 
my husband I have three I have three 
sons at the time my husband was the 
world's best cancer she was wonderful 
but my kids were really falling apart my 
oldest who's now 25 and thriving was a 
freshman in high school and suicidal my 
middle one was struggling with anxiety 
my youngest was having panic attacks and 
school refusal 
um and so all hell was breaking loose 
and therapy and all the normal tracks I 
would take as a mama just were not 
working 
and so out of desperation 
I went to see a woman who was I was 
referred to as psychic medium who has 
turned out to be one of my greatest 
teachers I still take her classes with 
her and study with her she's amazing her 
name is Dr Therese rally 
um so I went to her really primarily 
with my oldest son in mine because he 
was like my my lowest hanging uh 
emergency you know I was like you have a 
lot of emergencies like the one who's 
suicidal is like the first priority of 
con one yeah Defcon one so 
um I went or I'd never really been other 
than as a joke with my girlfriends to 
psychics or whatever and I told her what 
the situation is and she's like okay let 
me ask you know let me tune into his 
energy field he's like in school while 
this is going on and she says oh he's 
Clair sentient and I had never heard 
that term before and she explained she's 
like you know it's he feels what other 
people are feeling she goes but here's 
the tricky thing with him and a lot of 
kid other kids and even adults sometimes 
is that he is feeling really strongly 
what other people are feeling but he 
can't tell the difference between his 
feelings and other people's feelings so 
so he's like an ungrounded whipping 
around electrical cord just like feeling 
all the feelings and that's exactly who 
he was like one minute he'd be fine in 
the next minute he'd he'd be upset and 
he'd have to come up with a reason in 
his mind why he was upset and then he 
would come up with a story it's because 
you gave me the red plate and not the 
Blue Plate you know but it was really 
because he was feeling the sadness or 
anxiety of the kids sitting next to him 
you know but he couldn't make sense of 
that so it all just kind of clicked I 
was like wow that really sounds like him 
and she said so he and this is what was 
the Inception of quantum love is she 
said so here's what you need to know 
because he's feeling what you're feeling 
you have to be really careful about the 
mood you're in when you go into your 
room and I said well into his room or 
you're around him I was like well you 
know I always I felt like I'd go in 
there and show if I'm upset or angry or 
had a bad day or whatever she's like no 
he he feels what you're hiding he feels 
what you're in denial about he feels 
everything so before you go into and she 
was the one who first taught me how to 
ground which is one of like my deepest 
most treasured foundations I have a 
meditation on my website 
um if you go there to the quantum love 
page to the grounding meditation in the 
beginning I was doing it like 20 times a 
day but 
she's like it moves you into your body 
again and it grounds you energetically 
because your energy he's feeling your 
energy and your emotions are energy and 
that's what he's feeling and you and 
other people so this is what I came back 
to later which led to Quantum love so 
put a pin in that for a second so she 
says ground yourself 
and she shows me how to do this 
and she's like and just open your heart 
and think about how much you you know 
let everything else go and just think 
about how much you love him how much you 
believe in him and then if he's willing 
give him a grounding hug 
and she explained to me how you just 
send love from your heart into his and 
imagine it going through his heart and 
down his spine and deep deep deep into 
the Earth 
and so my you know 15 year old smart ass 
son who had just recently told me I was 
a 40 year old woman looking for meaning 
and self-help books so he was very poo 
poo to anything I had to say both as a 
teenager and with his scientific 
opinions of everything not at all open 
to the woo-woo and 
um I said listen I just so I grounded 
myself I opened my heart I go into his 
room and I say so listen you know this 
is what happened today and I tell him 
and he looks at me and says I don't know 
why I'm saying this but I think what 
you're saying is true 
and I said oh okay well let me show you 
this other thing she said she said to 
give you a grounding hug and he like 
very you know he would rarely he was 15 
they don't let you hug them very often 
at that age you know but he let me kind 
of stiff and I did it and he became like 
a like a sack of feathers like he was 
just so limp and it affected him so 
deeply to this day he always asked for a 
grounding hug whenever I see him like he 
he just feels that we were hiking the 
other day and he was getting really 
upset about something and afterwards 
he's like can I have a grounding hug 
um so it really it blew us both away his 
response to it but we didn't say 
anything to each other at the time um 
because I was trying to play it really 
cool because if I had showed any 
investment you know he was going to be 
like so you 
I dropped it after that and then the 
follow 
the final school today and I was in a 
great mood and I was at my locker and 
all of a sudden I felt so angry and 
frustrated and I didn't know what was 
going on but then I looked up and I 
realized oh I it's probably that that 
girl is angry and frustrated A Few 
Lockers down and like that was the [ __ ] 
everything started to change and so then 
I was like you know WTF like what is 
this and how does this work because my 
geek came out which is a science geek 
and I was like okay what is this how 
does this work I asked Teresa more about 
it 
she kind of pointed me in the direction 
of quantum physics and then I became a 
total nerd and just like dove into 
quantum physics dove into like what this 
means and how this works scientifically 
um and then I started playing with it so 
then I started using it 
to positively affect my other son's 
anxiety and then so I was mostly just 
using with my kids at first and then I 
looked at my husband and I was like hey 
Sam 
how about we yeah I didn't even say 
anything to him because he's like my 
nickname for him is send your root 
chakra because like he is so grounded 
and he just kind of Pats me on the head 
and go like go on with your bad woo-woo 
sound so cute by the way yeah 
um and so uh but one of the reasons I 
fell in love with him is that I could 
you know I was a big gaslighter back in 
the day when I was younger because it 
was how I survived in my family and I 
was really good at running circles so if 
I was in trouble I could convince you by 
the end that you were the one in trouble 
or you were the one that should be 
apologizing I was masterful and there 
was a part of me that felt safe because 
I could do that but there was another 
part of me that knew it was [ __ ] up so 
so and I hadn't really had a successful 
relationship I had been married and 
divorced to a cheater or whatever but 
when I met Sam he you cannot Gaslight 
him you can't even open the gas can like 
he smells it and he looks like put that 
[ __ ] away get that out I could not and 
because of that I could not win an 
argument with him to save my life which 
and I was very used to winning arguments 
debates as well as you know emotional 
arguments and so 
um so that was really part of what I 
fell in love with but it was also one of 
my greatest frustrations in our 
relationship because I could never win 
an argument and sometimes I wanted to 
and sometimes I really believed in my 
position and so 
um there was one time we were in Chicago 
we were living in Chicago the time we 
were outside on this little deck and he 
was upset with me about something 
my old codependent strategy would have 
been you know in the olden days to try 
to convince him that I wasn't really 
wrong and what he was upset about wasn't 
fair and you know but he said it was his 
fault sorry that was his fault but with 
him what I was doing because I wasn't 
able to do that was you know what most 
of us do I think which is the least 
healthy to do in an argument is I was 
listening to respond in other words you 
know you listen and you're thinking no I 
didn't say that no I'm going to tell 
them but you're not really being present 
with what he's saying you're just 
thinking about how you're going to 
respond or how you're going to be 
brought your dukes up yeah you're ready 
you're defensive yeah and so I 
remembered what was ultimately to become 
Quantum love it didn't have a name then 
but I I sort of said okay like let me 
just be fully grounded here let me 
ground in my body and not be my trigger 
so I did that let me open my heart okay 
now let me look at this man his mouth is 
moving he's talking I'm listening to him 
but I'm also aware of like how this is a 
blip in the screen of our whole 
relationship how much I love him I can 
see that he's hurting right now you know 
whether I think it's right or wrong for 
him to be hurting the man I love is 
hurting and I can uh listen to what he's 
saying and try it on from that 
perspective but most importantly just 
think about how much I love him and I 
didn't change my expression from the 
same one I would have had you know 
listening to respond but this man who 
never I mean he could argue in the 
Supreme Court he never he's like got a 
mind like a steel trap he never loses 
his train of thought he lost his train 
of thought and his shoulders kind of 
relaxed and he sat down next to me and 
then I put my head on his shoulder and 
we had a completely different 
conversation I was like wow that's 
freaky that was like a Jedi mind trick 
what I just did you know it was amazing 
amazing how he responded without me 
saying a word I just changed the 
energetic frequency and what I learned 
through this journey is that it really 
is you know and if you're in a 
relationship it really is 
um I I could use this for evil if I 
wanted to I don't know that it works for 
evil I've never tried it but anything I 
want truly want from an authentic place 
I get and if I'm going in to have a 
conversation that I know is difficult 
that I want to go a certain way I I move 
my body into the energetic frequency of 
how I wanted to go I open my heart I 
ground myself and I go have the 
conversation I use it in work I use it 
the other day because he was getting 
triggered about something we're moving 
houses and there are a lot of expenses 
and and I was feeling his anxiety and I 
was starting to move into anxiety or 
codependence and I just grounded myself 
I moved into home frequency I moved into 
the frequency of abundance and that we 
have everything we could possibly need 
and all that we want will be provided 
and he immediately shift without me 
saying a word so that's basically the 
principle of quantum love in 
relationships in dating here's what we 
need to like the basics of the science 
of quantum love and quantum physics is 
that we are all pure vibrating energy 
you and I seem solid right these mics 
were talking in seem solid you and I 
seem separate we are on a certain 
uh level from the level of our five 
senses we are separate but on the 
quantum level on the atomic level we are 
all vibrating atoms that are part of the 
same Quantum soup there is no separation 
between you and me really it's just 
perceived and our bodies 
are vibrating and Harmony our body is a 
harmonic vibration put it that way that 
is constantly shifting and changing 
with every thought and emotion we have 
and on top of and this has been shown 
and proven in all sorts of really cool 
ways and I get into the science in the 
book you know I can geek out with you if 
you want to but we don't need to go 
there but the science is there 
um but what's really cool is that we are 
constantly imagine unconsciously 
matching each other's frequency 
so in order for you and I to even be in 
this conversation our frequencies have 
found a happy medium what's really 
happened is you've been trained to me 
because every time I'm about to talk to 
someone I move into home frequency hold 
that frequency so everyone else is 
matching me 
um rather than me matching them which 
was my old codependent instincts uh you 
know years ago so 
um anyone who's in your orbit anyone who 
you talk to anyone who you even see or 
perceive with your five senses is 
vibrating in some sort of harmony with 
your body's vibration but that's really 
important in dating right because we 
have kind of importance right because 
not even just in a date and making and 
connecting with someone but who you're 
going to attract in you are only going 
to perceive be attractive to and be uh 
perceived as attracted to attractive to 
someone who vibrates in harmony with 
your base frequency right so if you're 
someone who lives a lot of the time in 
guilt and shame let's just say and 
that's something you struggle with 
that's something that's part of your 
daily stories if you kind of do that 
thought cleanse where you pay attention 
to the stories you're telling yourself 
and the way you're beating yourself up 
throughout the day if you are someone 
who's walking through the worlds maybe 
on the outside looks gorgeous acts 
fabulous but inside is constantly 
struggling with shame and guilt you are 
going to repeatedly be attracted to and 
attract and people who are going to 
stimulate match and engage with shame 
and guilt with you so they're either 
going to create more of it they're going 
to be living in it they're going to be 
stimulating it they're going to be 
cheating on you they're going to be 
criticizing you they're going to be 
ghosting you they're going to be really 
married when they're not you know those 
kinds of people if you're attracting 
people like that my guess is that is a 
vibrational match for where you tend to 
live a lot of the time 
just wow okay I'm completely with you so 
tell us how do and and I'm sure this is 
resonating with me it's resonating with 
every person who's driving or walking 
like crashing their car listening to 
this right now going what the hell is my 
frequency and why am I attracting all 
these red flag people why am I reliving 
all of this how do we give us a 
grounding meditation tell us like how 
can we be better now to do what you're 
doing like I think this is amazing can 
we help people as they're listening to 
this yeah absolutely I mean if you're 
driving don't do what I'm about to walk 
you through because you gotta Focus wait 
till you stop pull over and if you go on 
my website there's tons of meditations 
for this not only for grounding but also 
for getting clear because here's the 
thing let me just take a step back here 
um there's like this larger picture 
right if you're someone who lives 
primarily in shame and guilt and this 
isn't good for the dating Academy 
business but I'm just gonna say don't 
even try to date 
until you address the core wounds that 
have brought you to a place in your life 
where most of the time you are speaking 
to yourself in ways that create shame or 
guilt or you're surrounding yourself 
with people who are making you're 
inspiring those feelings in you right 
both are usually true and that's usually 
rooted in a hypercritical upbringing 
abandonment trauma neglect traumas you 
know emotional abuse physical abuse 
sexual abuse but there's a whole range 
and a whole Continuum it doesn't mean 
you have to been horrifically abused to 
be living in that frequency right but I 
honestly don't think you're gonna get 
anywhere if that is where you tend to 
live 
when it comes to dating I think you are 
so much better served investing and 
shifting and healing the stories you've 
been carrying your whole life that lead 
you to have these stories Because by the 
way if you're living in shame and guilt 
or fear you are someone who really 
struggles at your core of feeling worthy 
of love 
I have to be something or do something 
different in order to be fully worthy of 
love and if that's where you're living 
how the hell are you going to attract in 
someone who can love you well if you're 
not worthy of love right so that has to 
be healed but let's say you're not 
really in those far reaches and you're 
someone who just hasn't been 
it hasn't been working for you right 
the key key is Not only in grounding 
which I promise I will walk you through 
but 
even as are more important is getting 
clear on how you want to feel because so 
here we're working with Quantum love 
backwards right our energetic frequency 
is rooted in our emotions 
okay our emotional states set our bodies 
frequency okay when you move yourself 
into the energetic frequency of the 
emotional states you want to live in and 
whatever fill in the blank in love in 
life and work for today whatever it is 
for this conversation when you move your 
body into the energetic frequency of how 
you want to feel 
that's when you become a magnet for it 
because you are now in the vibration of 
that which you want to feel and by the 
way everything you want you want because 
you want to feel a certain way I mean 
think about it you want that fancy car 
because of how you're going to feel with 
it in your driveway driving down the 
street you want that certain kind of 
person man woman whoever 
how it's because you want to feel how 
you're going to feel when you have the 
love of your life right so the question 
is not to ask yourself yes sure what 
qualities that person has that you want 
to be with or your shared Vision or your 
shared goals or your attraction or 
whatever it's if I were to were to wake 
up next to that person every single 
morning 
[Music] 
and live with them day in day out how 
would I feel 
and I actually have a quiz on my website 
that shows you how you want to feel 
because a lot of people don't even 
freaking know right but it gives you the 
two main ways you want to feel 
and then from that is where you begin to 
create and manifest because everything 
that we have everything that happened in 
our life we're all manifesting 
24 7. we're just not doing it 
consciously everything that's happening 
to us on some level we're manifesting 
um but we're just not aware of it just 
like most of us are matching other 
people's frequencies rather than having 
them match ours 
so 
when you get clear on how you want to 
feel you've been unsuccessful in love 
you've been pulling in the wrong people 
it's not really been working for you 
start with how you want to feel first of 
all 
and then once you know that you're going 
to ground and I'll take you through two 
steps you're going to ground and then 
I'm going to move you into 
um 
what it feels like to be in the 
energetic frequency of the feeling you 
want to create in your life and love and 
then if you can hold that frequency and 
I'll talk to you about how to do that 
even 
you know 51 of the time if you can keep 
moving back and forth into that 
frequency but spend 51 percent of your 
time there you will be astounded at the 
Miracles that they seem like Miracles 
that start happening in terms of who you 
attract in and what opportunities and 
what experiences you're attracting into 
your life 
make sense 
perfect okay so let's go to here eager 
to hear okay so first of all I'm gonna 
just ask everyone right even if you you 
may not know this is just for the 
purpose of practice you can go to my 
website later and see exactly how you 
want to feel in love or whatever but 
just choose a feeling that you love to 
feel so let's say it's 
passion or playfulness or feeling 
cherished or feeling safe or feeling 
protected or feeling excited or feeling 
um seductive or whatever just pick one 
for the purposes of this exercise okay 
you got one Bella yeah you don't have to 
say it but you have to get it okay 
so the first thing is to ground and by 
the way the more you do this the more in 
your body you are the more you can 
create what you want the more of an 
internal Compass you have this has so 
many benefits so 
um I put sticky notes on the mirrors in 
my car everywhere in the beginning just 
ground just to remind me to do this 
because it's real quick you're going to 
take a really you can start taking deep 
breaths as I talk you through this but 
you're going to take some deep breaths 
in through the nose and out through the 
mouth and imagine kind of filling up 
your whole belly 
um as you breathe in 
and on your next breath in I want you to 
imagine a light a beautiful light any 
color that comes to you 
streaming in through the top of your 
head that Crown chakra as you breathe in 
it's filling every cell of your body and 
as you start to breathe out and then 
fully breathe out it is shooting out 
your tailbone deep deep deep deep into 
the Earth like roots of a tree grounding 
you there so take three breaths like 
that and just notice what you feel in 
your body right so you're breathing in 
that beautiful light as you breathe in 
it's filling every cell of your body 
with that beautiful light and then 
helps even breathe out like that goes 
straight at your tailbone deep deep deep 
into the Earth so take a few more 
breaths like that and and one of the 
things I like to do just like the roots 
of a tree should be twice the width of 
its widest branches 
think about your energetic reach today 
right is it you're going to be talking 
to 100 people you're gonna just be 
seeing one friend you can make your 
roots as wide and as deep as you want to 
um so take one more breath grounding 
breath and you probably notice 
um sort of a settling your hips will 
soften a little bit you'll feel kind of 
settled into your seat a little bit more 
I love to do this sitting on the ground 
even 
um 
uh it feels even better to me or 
standing Barefoot on the earth or on the 
grass I love doing it that way too 
so now that you're grounded in your your 
energy is now grounded As Above So Below 
all connected right now here's the cool 
part we're going to move your body now 
that we're grounded in it into the 
energy of the feeling you want to 
manifest more of in your life so 
um let me just think I'll use one of 
mine I want to feel um peace peace is 
one that's coming up for me today okay 
so I'm going to use myself as an example 
just to walk you through this 
I want you to imagine it can be a real 
time from your past or even just a a 
fantasy or an imaginary time or 
something you read or one time in a 
romance novel or something but 
um a time in your life or an imagined 
time when you felt that feeling fully so 
for me it would be a time that I felt 
unadulterated complete 
peace like the most peace I could 
possibly imagine 
um so imagine that scene right so as I'm 
sitting here thinking about peace 
um I see a time that I was sitting up on 
top of this rock and uh like a a 
swimming jumping Rock jumping hole with 
my kids and the Sun was shining and it 
was so beautiful and I was listening to 
all the kids jump and scream and have 
such a fun a fun time and I was feeling 
the energy of the Rock and the sun on my 
face right so here's the key I'm there 
in first person I am not looking at you 
so you're not looking at yourself in 
that scene you are in the scene in first 
person as if it's happening right here 
right now so I can look down at my feet 
on the Rock and my knees bent in front 
of me I can see the Goosebumps of my arm 
from swimming in the cold water up to 
the Rock I can hear the sounds of the 
kids I can smell the trees around me 
right I am there in first person and the 
reason for that is your body can't tell 
the difference between reality and 
rehearsal so you are literally your body 
thinks as you do this that you are in 
that scene and so therefore it is moving 
into the frequency of the feeling that 
that scene creates in you without you 
having to feel anything you're going to 
feel it as you imagine the scene in 
first person but now your body is moving 
into that frequency so what you probably 
feel is a little bubbling and spreading 
in your chest the loosening of your hips 
the loosening of your back maybe there's 
a smile on your face loosening in your 
throat 
softening in your throat right so just 
anchor it can be any or all or none of 
those but just anchor what bodily 
Sensations which you will feel now in 
this grounded State what bodily 
Sensations 
this scene and thus the feeling you want 
to create 
in your body right so we want to Anchor 
this 
you are now in the energetic frequency 
of that feeling you want to create in 
love or life or anything else right so 
from this place 
I like to just even ask my body to 
Anchor it feels really good to you just 
say yes yes I say yes to this feeling of 
like fill in your blank for me I say yes 
to this feeling of Peace today and every 
day I claim peace I anchor this feeling 
in my body I call it into my life now 
I'm putting it into my conscious 
awareness 
and what I'm going to do in my 
day-to-day life today and moving forward 
is I'm going to be looking for 
opportunities around me that Inspire 
feelings of peace right so if I'm 
walking to buy a park and I see a 
beautiful area to sit amongst some 
flowers instead of continuing to walk 
I'm going to go in there and sit for a 
minute and be like yeah I welcome in 
peace this is a really peaceful place 
I'm gonna let my movie my body move back 
into that vibration right I'm going to 
look around me and start using my the 
lens that I'm looking for for peace oh 
is there peace over there or is there a 
piece over there oh I'm gonna go over 
there and that's what I'm going to 
follow and all of a sudden all these 
opportunities and people and situations 
are going to start showing up all of a 
sudden 
that my that I'm like oh yeah that 
sounds really peaceful yeah I do want to 
do that right and that's just my feeling 
right you're I'm just using that as an 
example but whatever feeling you want to 
feel 
and so for a dater for example if this 
person needs to get on the apps and 
start to build their dating funnel or 
maybe you know they want to feel maybe 
they want to feel attractive they want 
to feel like there's an abundance of 
good people yeah if they're going on a 
date they want to feel beautiful they 
want to feel Charming they want to feel 
flirtatious right so are these words 
that you would that you hear often for 
people that are looking for love yes but 
I would even take it a step further than 
that because you're being you know and I 
I don't I'm not good at mincing words I 
don't mean this as a criticism but 
you're being accidentally short-sighted 
right you're only thinking about how 
they're going to feel on the date 
I want the Charming part but maybe your 
biggest feeling you want I I don't think 
most people would say once I find that 
perfect person I want to wake up every 
day feeling Charming 
totally maybe they do but they want to 
feel Charming for the initial date right 
so if you just want a lot of dates then 
go with charming but that's why it's so 
important to even jump step over that 
and think about how you want to feel in 
love right because if how you want to 
feel in love let's say is desired right 
that would be the closest thing to 
Charming for the sake of this or safe 
right it's a big deal all right so let's 
say you want to feel safe really get to 
know what that feeling of safety think 
about those times in your life that you 
felt unequivocal holding safety 
unconditional acceptance make it up in 
your mind if you never had that in your 
life right imagine it 
and and then before you walk into the 
bar or the coffee shop or anything else 
even what that morning before you get 
into your car or go out the door ground 
yourself move yourself into the 
energetic frequency in your mind of 
safety and the way it would look on this 
in this relationship is is safety in 
that and you will have already had this 
scene in your mind is that like I'm 
showing up as my true authentic self I 
don't have to be mincing my words or 
being hyper Vigilant you know I'm 
obviously just meeting this person so 
I'm not gonna like you know farted all 
out on the table chair and over share 
whatever but like this person is someone 
who wants to get my wants to get to know 
my true self who wants to show up 
authentically and be unconditionally 
accepted him or herself and wants the 
same for me and I am going to show up on 
this date in full authenticity and 
acceptance and expecting safety and 
acceptance in return and when I walk 
into that restaurant or bar or coffee 
shop 
I am 
energetically actually emitting that 
frequency so the only people that are 
even got and you can do that before you 
push put your profile up on the dating 
app and the only people that are going 
to reach out to you are probably going 
to be people that match that frequency 
and even better if you get clear on how 
you want to feel in love and put it in 
your profile I'm curious what you think 
about this Bella but like let's say the 
three the two top ways you want to feel 
is safe and vulnerable right so one of 
your sentences is I'm so excited to find 
my person who believes in authenticity 
and B and being vulnerable with each 
other and creating full safety and love 
right boom you're getting rid of 90 of 
the [ __ ] right there totally right 
the players the hookupers right that's 
not safe that's not vulnerable right 
so so I think it would be cool to even 
put that in your profile all right I'm 
gonna Push pause I'm gonna Push pause 
because I'm just realizing that my uh my 
power's about to go so I'm going to plug 
in my computer 
oh you push pause on the recording for a 
minute just yeah can you edit this 
okay 
all right I love this about knowing how 
you want to feel in your relationship 
okay not just on a date like make it 
bigger do you want to feel excited do 
you want to feel passionate do you want 
to feel safe and want to feel connected 
do you want to feel inspired do you want 
to feel desired you know don't even 
think about the short-term dating think 
about when that when you have that 
perfect person because they're there 
they just haven't shown up in your life 
yet right it's like a seed beneath the 
surface that hasn't germinated and 
popped through yet but it's still there 
right they're there so 
and I would say even call them in right 
like call them in with your energetic 
frequency because magnetize them right 
you can find them and you're not going 
to sit back on your couch and expect 
them to ring your doorbell but think in 
terms of magnetizing being a magnet for 
someone who is going to 
um Inspire those feelings in You by the 
very essence of who they are and how 
they operate in the world 
100 I'm just thinking like grounding and 
you're feeling safe and you're feeling 
accepted and if you walk into a date 
like that you guys okay think about 
you're not gonna worry about oh my God I 
have like a little lipstick on my teeth 
who cares you're feeling safe and you're 
feeling accepted and what is that gonna 
do energetically it's going to make you 
be the most authentic version of 
yourself that's on the logistical side 
right on the logistical side your body 
language the things you say the 
Expressions on your face all of that is 
going to admit I'm a secure grounded 
safe confident person right which is 
very attractive and that's all yummy 
good stuff but on an energetic Quantum 
level 
what you are doing is moving that person 
across from you into because otherwise 
you would just match theirs and they'd 
match yours and you'd find a happy 
medium or if you tend toward 
codependence like I did you would just 
be matching everyone else giving up your 
frequency all together right so when you 
walk in holding your frequency guess 
what everyone and everything around you 
matches you so then that date matches 
your frequency of safety and connection 
or authenticity and if they can't match 
that guess what they do they leave or 
they don't ask for a second date or they 
don't show like they won't even show up 
in your field right so you're skipping 
over 
you may end up with shorter dates right 
because that person won't be able then 
it won't be aggressive or uncomfortable 
it'll just be really clear to you this 
isn't a match right it's a weed out 
process it's a weeding out readout 
process it's pruning 
the people that aren't matching that 
aren't going to give you what you want 
want to feel in the future and if they 
don't call guess what the Exterminator 
just said 
like that's right that's it right that 
person has been weeded out so sometimes 
we say dodging a bullet but in this case 
I think people weed themselves out if 
they don't match if you come in grounded 
with that energy you've grounded 
yourself you visualized you have put 
yourself in that moment of when you felt 
so safe so loved so connected so when 
you walk in with that yeah that's 
incredibly magnetic to the right person 
the right person someone who's looking 
for a wham bam thank you ma'am or has 
bad energy or as a gaslighter hasn't 
done that they're not gonna they're 
gonna be like hey wow what's this and 
then you'll also find that some people 
will say okay wow you know I just 
there's something about you that just 
feels so safe and like you seem so 
together and you know like you'll find 
that people really and that person may 
not be you know that person may be a 
match for you or maybe someone who's so 
ungrounded themselves that they're 
really attracted to your togetherness 
right and then you'll have to decide 
whether that's what you want or not so 
it's not gonna only be it's gonna be 
anyone who is 
magnetized to the per you know she or he 
who feels and wants to feel completely 
accepted and authentic right 
who doesn't right except the gaslighters 
and [ __ ] so we get rid of those 
right and you can fill in any feeling I 
think there's like four or five seven 
different feeling sets in this quiz that 
I was talking about that I find that 
people are looking for most frequently 
in love but 
um you know you can share those 
um I'm trying to remember it was safe I 
because I'm so bad at memory lately but 
it's safe and can safe and uh connected 
vulnerable enough 
authentic uh desired and passionate 
adventurous and playful 
um they were feeling sets that I found 
when I am trying to remember the other 
ones I can't write out but um 
uh they're kind of what I find that 
people say the most that they're missing 
in their love relationship they wish 
they could have more of or that they're 
looking for 
um and it's uh it's really powerful once 
because because what you can do then 
once you know how you want to feel if 
you're someone looking for love is that 
you're doing this before you go on the 
dating app before you go on a date 
you're you know before you leave the 
house but you're all so you're doing it 
around your dating quote unquote life 
but what's really important to remember 
is that you're also just doing it in 
your day-to-day life because it's not 
that you just want to feel right safe in 
love you want to feel safe right so 
so if you are now walking through the 
world saying okay I'm someone who wants 
to feel safe and unconditionally 
accepted and you're using that as the 
lens you are now calling in and looking 
for opportunities and connections and 
relationships and situations that 
Inspire safety acceptance right so when 
you know 
you get that all of a sudden that 
invitation to you know a costume dance 
party where everybody comes as their 
crazy alter egos you know you think hey 
this is a great opportunity for me to 
practice like just being totally uh you 
know with a whole bunch of other people 
are in their complete authenticity right 
I'm gonna go to this thing and and have 
some fun in my true authentic expression 
and practice feeling safety in this low 
stake situation with all these people 
that I don't even know and by the way 
once you go you're going to meet three 
or four people that end up becoming 
great friends and maybe even a date 
right so you're living your life that 
way cultivating that feeling wherever 
you find it calling the opportunities 
for those feelings in and before you 
know it you're spending 51 percent of 
your time and feelings of safety and 
unconditional acceptance and then boy 
does your life become that including 
your dating life I love this so much I 
mean and it's all true do you are there 
other things that you can and I know 
this is riveting to most people you're 
picturing yourself grounded with light 
coming into your head and shooting up 
your tailbone and you're grounded with 
roots that are wider than the widest 
branches and all of these amazing things 
are there any other things you can tell 
us about Quantum love and bringing it 
into our lives or being it well a lot of 
what I talk about in in Quantum love is 
in recognizing what and this is how you 
really start to shift 
what the way your life is to the life 
that you really want 
in love and everything 
um is what I call your Fe your E8 your 
ego home frequency index it looks like 
because what I have and you'll see this 
in the book and on the web on the 
quantum love page of my website is what 
I call the quantum love map so every 
feeling we have has an energetic 
frequency 
and shame and guilt really shame and 
then guilt shame is the lowest frequency 
emotion we can feel love Bliss is the 
highest right hopefully none of us spend 
our eight well none of us can spend 24 7 
in love and Bliss except maybe the Dalai 
Lama right and hopefully we don't spend 
all of our time in shame or guilt right 
but there's a Continuum and so the 
lowest frequency is shame the highest 
frequency is love Bliss that you know 
Bliss I would sort of say is kind of 
orgasm right it's like that highest 
highest point of joy that we touch into 
but few of us remain 
um 
and then there's everything in between 
once so so the way that I explain it and 
there have been I'm standing on the 
shoulders of giants I didn't you know 
I'm just culling all the science 
together but they've been able to 
calibrate the energetic frequency that 
this of these emotions in our bodies 
and our energetic frequency emits and 
and trains other people to us right so 
that's why it's a Jedi mind trick for 
your relationship because in a love 
relationship we are are we are not only 
matching each other's frequencies we are 
entrained uh energetically with each 
other which is like a quantum 
entanglement so that means it's 
immediate and instantaneous 
matching so you're not having to find a 
happy medium you're just what you know 
and they've been able to show like show 
this in so many I could go geek out on 
all the science but they've been I'll 
just give you one quick example there 
was a University of Washington study 
where they took people couples in loving 
relationship took them to different 
sides of the campus and when they shined 
a light in the eye of one partner the 
ocular receptors in the brain of the 
other lit up like we are so physically 
and energetically matched in ways that 
we aren't consciously aware of and it is 
a blessing and a curse energetically 
right so that's why it's so important 
that example I gave with my son was a 
perfect example of how entrained and 
enmeshed we are to one another 
energetically but there is a Continuum 
right so the Effie is like uh where you 
tend to live on that Quantum love map at 
your on average at your highest point 
and at your lowest point and so we tend 
to live in different points of that on 
some love map right so one of us may 
tend to live in our lowest point is that 
we're feeling angry and our highest 
point is that we're feeling 
um you know loving let's just say right 
so that or someone else maybe I you know 
my lowest point is shame and my highest 
point is curiosity right so so there's a 
way and I have quizzes and everything 
else but there's a way that you figure 
out not only where what your kind of 
range is where you tend to live but what 
it also shows you the Effie is kind of 
shaped like an in a sideway you know an 
infinity symbol or a sideways eight that 
midpoint once you track the midpoint 
which I show you how to do it's easy but 
once you get that high point and low 
point 
about and this may be different for 
everything right like so you may say 
when I think about love at my lowest low 
I feel this way at my highest high I 
feel this way it could be in my 
day-to-day life at my lowest life could 
be around parenting right so you can do 
this in general or for something 
specific but that midpoint is super 
important because that midpoint is your 
point of transition that you want to 
start getting really really conscious 
about right so at the midpoint on your 
fa Fe where you tend to live on that 
Quantum love map let's say is 
anger right that's when you start to 
move up the scale or down the scale that 
is a really important point of 
Consciousness for you so then every time 
you notice you're feeling angry you 
claim the choice am I going to move into 
those lower frequencies or into these 
higher frequencies because the truth is 
the higher the lower your frequency the 
less of what you want is going to show 
up in your world the less of what you 
want you're going to be manifesting 
because the quantum fields and reality 
this is quantum physics it's crazy 
responds to your energetic frequency it 
matches it so the more time you spend 
even in optimism and curiosity and 
openness and hopefulness 
the more the universe will sh bring 
those things to your reality 
um and that I mean this is why Quantum 
physicists don't have to leave the 
building and or do their experiments in 
a vacuum because they're unconscious 
much less conscious expectations of how 
the outcome is going to go determines 
what's going to happen on the atomic 
level of these experiments so they will 
accidentally impact the outcome of the 
experiment just by being in the room 
without being there because of their 
energetic frequency of their expectation 
conscious or otherwise so that's what's 
so cool about that is that once you 
start to get clear on how you want to 
feel and you work to cultivate more of 
that feeling in your life and you start 
to 
to recognize when you're at that 
midpoint and moving away from that which 
you want to feel then so much more magic 
starts showing up in your life of 
opportunities people dates connections 
experiences that Inspire more of that 
feeling in your life 
it's like Quantum love as you're talking 
about it is the basis for the Law of 
Attraction it is it's the science it's I 
always say it's like the secret behind 
the secret because the secret behind the 
secret because you know the famous 
example you write yourself a check for a 
million dollars right well plenty of 
people write themselves a check for a 
million dollars and nothing happens 
the problem is that they aren't moving 
their bodies and their minds into the 
energetic frequency of he or she or they 
who has a million dollars in their 
pocket what would that feel like what 
would you feel if you had that million 
dollars and how can you live from that 
feeling every day and and manifest more 
of that feeling in your life and by the 
way you will end up with a million 
dollars and a million other things that 
create that feeling that a million 
dollars would have created in you 
it's amazing absolutely awesome so tell 
you've also and I think this is really 
closely related we've talked so much 
about ourselves and and being Quantum 
love how do we as we think about love 
you talk about manifesting and 
manifesting partners and I know you've 
been doing this now as part of your 
practice how do we do that yeah well I 
have um you should join her Bella I have 
a manifesting Mondays club with my dear 
friend Andrea Kane she's another Chicago 
and I met Andrea she probably met her 
with me a couple times she's one of my 
favorite friends she's an amazing 
teacher she has a book uh out called 
kicking ass in a corset seven principles 
of internally referenced leadership and 
it's all about you know it's so 
compatible with Quantum love in many 
ways because it's all about how to 
Source your peace and your joy and your 
wholeness and your grounding from inside 
out versus outside in 
um but we have been she's all about 
manifesting and is more of a geek than I 
am with this stuff so we've been doing 
this monthly Club where we meet the 
first Monday of every month and then 
halfway through the month we meet for 
like office hours just to troubleshoot 
and whatever you know with p with 
everybody and it's an amazing group of 
people you get all the recordings 
whether you come to the actual you know 
times or not but it's all about 
manifesting the life you want and how 
and really because what it entails is 
learning how to become an energetic 
match for the life you want and 
removing the blocks 
from 
that are in the way and that's what a 
lot of what we work on is so every month 
someone gets into what we call the love 
seat rather than the hot seat but 
someone gets into the love seat and I 
work with them one-on-one around an area 
that they're feeling stuck where like I 
know what I want is to feel playful and 
you know I know how I want to feel it's 
just not I keep attracting in this type 
or I can't seem or I had this experience 
with this guy I was dating and so then 
we go into it and we get to the core of 
what the block is and it's always what 
everybody in the room needs to hear you 
know that's how these things work 
um but it's a really cool group and I do 
find that doing this in community and 
doing this in a way that you can feel 
really supported because here's the cool 
thing about manifesting love or 
manifesting everything we're this is our 
Birthright we're we're born with the 
internal Instinct and knowledge of how 
to do this it just gets conditioned out 
of us and like covered up with mud like 
that famous Buddhist statue that all of 
a sudden there was a crack in in it 
after hundreds of years they thought it 
was Clay and what had happened is 
hundreds of years ago during some 
Invasion the monks had covered this pure 
gold Buddha statue with mud to hide it 
from The Invader so it wouldn't be 
pillaged and for hundreds and hundreds 
of years no one thought twice about it 
but once they removed this crack showed 
they removed the mud and there was this 
gorgeous Golden Buddha underneath and 
that's how I think of us we have all 
this mud that gets caked on us from our 
traumas and dramas and big tea and 
Little T traumas and neglects and 
criticism and heartaches and heartbreaks 
and bullied and blah blah and it just 
cakes mud on this very natural brilliant 
ability we have and so what we what I 
think is important is to be in community 
and to be in the process of getting 
support for 
um you know being around other people 
who are on a similar journey and who 
will marry you and support you in that 
and also in learning how to crack 
through the mud 
um crack through the mud ladies and 
gentlemen you have a golden statue right 
inside of you so we'll just have to hose 
off the mud a little bit yeah that's it 
maybe crack through a few hard places 
and once it cracks open 
um you know that's how the light gets 
out right wasn't that Leonard Cohen it's 
it's the cracks I don't mind the cracks 
because that's how the light gets out 
oh my gosh wow I'm so blown away I feel 
like I've I've I've matched your energy 
you're like the Jedi mind I'm like I'm 
feeling really connected and powerful 
and passionate so whatever you're 
putting out there I've drank and I've 
trained I've it's been injected into I 
only use my powers for good and by the 
way I don't have powers that anyone else 
doesn't have I've just been cultivating 
them but this is the cool part anytime I 
go into a meeting or an interview or a 
conversation or a difficult conversation 
with my kids or husband or whatever I 
use this and I just let everyone else 
match me and it always is an amazing 
time for all parties involved right and 
I'm guessing so much of your time you're 
like I just want to be love yeah that's 
it I just yeah I mean in every and I 
don't make New Year's resolutions for 
years now I just make resolutions on how 
I want to feel 
and this and every year it's different 
right but this year it was peace love 
and connection that was for me what was 
most important this year other years has 
been other things and so uh yeah that's 
what I put out you know as I was about 
to sit down with you everything I do 
that's how I want to feel this year 
until I decide I want to feel something 
different until I'm like okay I have 
enough of that now I want to feel 
excitement and passion you know whatever 
but I'm Still Loving the peace love and 
connection so if you're feeling peace 
love and connection you entrained to me 
I'm totally feeling peace loving 
connection 
we've now melded we are one 
we already were you're just feeling it 
now absolutely I'm I'm completely I'm 
awakened to it at this point so thank 
you so so much for being here for this 
amazing 
um conversation I just I'm like in my 
feels and I'm sure hopefully you guys 
are driving in your car or blow drying 
your hair or walking your dog or 
snuggled up in bed right now with the 
covers pulled up tight and a nice cool 
environment and I thank you Laura for 
being here and for being a friend and 
for always being willing to give because 
you're an incredibly generous thoughtful 
person and and to all of you I wish you 
an envisioned Quantum love think about 
what do you want to be what do you want 
to feel and how are you going to ground 
yourself how are you going to show up 
everywhere in that world with how you 
want to feel and how are you going to 
watch with Marvel and how people sync to 
you maybe for the first time in your 
life so I wish you a week of quantum 
love until we meet again next week 
