well women survivors of complex trauma 
brought on by relational abuse whether 
that started in their childhoods and or 
in their adulthoods absolutely and it 
doesn't have to be in the Romantic realm 
to your point it can be childhood it can 
be siblings it could be extended family 
friends who knows and that was another 
interesting finding of their research 
was what what causes the complex PTSD is 
it the Early Childhood abuse is it the 
adult narcissistic abuse 
so we looked at that and we did um a 
regression analysis to pull those things 
apart and what we found out is both you 
could have the ctsd with only the 
childhood abuse or you could have it 
with only the narcissistic abuse but 
when you think about for those of us 
who've kind of had both experiences you 
know that's a lot of stuff that needs to 
be worked through and it's complicated 
it it often talk therapy often isn't 
enough 
