today I have someone amazing for you and 
this someone isn't just to someone this 
is someone who's part of the heartbeat 
of Smart dating Academy she's helped 
develop the curriculum that has coached 
you Lindsay thank you for finally 
finally putting some time on the 
calendar to do this because I couldn't 
be more excited to have you here oh 
fella 
sweet you know people ask me Bella how 
do you bring people onto your own staff 
I'm like well it's a pretty high bar I 
really always felt that my heart was 
helping put people together but I 
definitely observed some patterns over 
the years as a Matchmaker which is that 
when people come to see you they have a 
very clear criteria of what they think 
they need in a relationship and it is a 
checklist and sometimes we're able to 
get that lined up and teach people and 
they get everything they want on the 
list but they don't necessarily they 
never felt fulfilled 
