[Music] 
foreign 
[Music] 
dating Academy podcast I'm bellagonde 
the founder of Smart dating Academy and 
your host I started Smart dating Academy 
in 2009 because I had this crazy Knack 
of giving people dating advice that 
actually worked that I took I've been 
married for almost 25 years and now my 
company helps people to date smarter and 
to find love this podcast is meant to 
bring more love into your life no matter 
where you are and what you do and we're 
here to bring more life into your love 
you guys welcome back to the smartdating 
academy podcast I am so so excited and I 
know you know me by now and I know that 
you know that there's a lot of things 
that get me really excited but today 
I'm gonna use one of my favorite words 
I'm extraordinarily 
excited because of my guest who is not 
only someone who I'm sure you've seen on 
TV I'm sure you've seen at various spots 
in the media and I'm really proud to 
also say that she is a dear friend of 
mine I'm so happy to have my friend 
Danielle robay join us today Danielle 
welcome hi Bella I'm so happy to be with 
you you guys just because Danielle is so 
extraordinary I'm gonna literally read 
you her bio so you know what a freaking 
rock star this young 30 year old is who 
has created a life that she loves and 
she's bringing more love into her life 
but we will get to Danielle and dating 
towards the middle end of this podcast I 
gotta warm her up a little bit you know 
what I mean but let me tell you about 
Danielle Danielle is a TV host and 
journalist currently a correspondent for 
I am MDB and nbc4la and creator of the 
video podcast which is so awesome you 
guys called pretty smart you've seen her 
on hln's Dr Drew e extra Entertainment 
Tonight The Steve Harvey Show NBC's 
first look and defy media were her Daily 
News segments and interviews received 
over 100 million views a month online in 
2016. she was named co-host of wciu's 
chicago-based the jam making her the 
youngest morning TV host in Chicago's 
history and side note that is where I 
met Danielle on the jam as one of her 
guests with the loyal social media 
following of over 300 000 followers 
she's Chad with everyone from Taylor 
Swift to Michael B Jordan to Helen 
Mirren and Tom Hanks even Larry King 
says about Danielle's compelling 
interviewing style Danielle has the 
ability to make make people feel seen 
and you guys that and that and that is 
the reason Danielle is here and a 
wonderfully esteemed guest on the Smart 
dating Academy podcast so now that 
everybody knows what a great young rock 
star you are Danielle like just tell us 
about you did you always you grew up in 
Chicago did you always want to be in 
media and journalism like did you ever 
imagine you'd be as big of a rock star 
as you are no that's so nice of you I 
don't feel like a rock star 
you know it's funny sometimes when I 
interview 
um successful actors I'm like does 
success feel the way you thought it 
would and almost all of them are like I 
don't feel successful 
um so I guess it's human nature but uh 
no I I always wanted to be a journalist 
I loved asking questions I've been 
um innately curious about why since I 
can remember and then when I actually 
got to do it for the first time in 
college I interned at 
um a few networks like in Madison 
Wisconsin where I went to school I knew 
this is what I wanted to do I wanted to 
tell stories amazing amazing and I can 
tell you just personally getting to know 
Danielle you know more off the set at 
the gym we would have these wonderfully 
long decadent coffee lunch dates at 
summer house in Lincoln Park in Chicago 
and getting to know her was such a treat 
because to be with someone who was so 
Soulful and really introspective and so 
genuinely interesting but interested in 
others she's a rare bird and you know if 
you haven't seen what she looks like 
she's as beautiful outside as she is on 
the inside so you're amazing and your 
conversations meant so much to me oh 
yeah you're one of my people like I I 
look to you as as a North star so 
well I feel exactly the same about you 
and I'm just I want you to tell our 
listeners like if you had to you know 
you you have so many abilities and you 
noticed you knew what you wanted to do 
at a young age with I think so many 
people Envy including me it took me so 
long and you know into my early 30s to 
figure out what I wanted to be when I 
grew up and when I started this company 
but you know what you know kind of what 
would you tell people 
about creating a life that they loved 
that's 
a million dollar question 
um you know I think it goes back to 
asking yourself questions 
and I think I got lucky early on I I 
didn't really even know I wasn't 
intentional about asking questions I 
felt drawn to something and went with it 
but if you do feel confused or you 
haven't tapped into the thing that 
lights you up 
I think the best thing to do is start 
asking yourself questions 
um what gives you energy every day what 
drains your energy every day 
um I think if you ask yourself those two 
questions and write down the answer for 
30 days at the end of the 30 days it'd 
be really interesting to see 
what all those answers add up to and I 
think you would feel more directed 
that is oh my gosh say it again for the 
people in the back what a gem I mean 
what a huge piece of advice that can 
really what lights you up and what 
drains you and journaling about that 
every day I mean sometimes people ask me 
you know because I come from finance and 
then manufacturing like how did you how 
did you become a dating coach and how 
did you put Smart dating Academy 
together and a process not as elegantly 
articulated as you just did but I said 
what am like what do I love to do every 
single day and that list was long and 
then the next question in my in the 
bellagonde list was out of those things 
what am I actually good at so that 
really long list got really really short 
really suddenly but that's really how I 
started to be able to look at what are 
my strengths because I didn't have to 
wear with all to ask myself the 
questions that you are telling us to 
answer what am I good at 
where do I light people up what brings 
me joy and it took me until I unplugged 
my second job to sit down and ask those 
questions so for those of you and this 
could be in any aspect of your life 
right what lights you up and what drains 
you and start to look at those things to 
bring more elements of the things that 
you love into your life and to start to 
mercilessly prune the things that drain 
you right and Danielle what surprised 
you about the things that Lit you up and 
the things that drained you 
um well I actually didn't ask myself 
those specific questions because I 
didn't like you didn't know I didn't 
know you know like I think I wish I had 
somebody to tell me that 
um when I was 20. I don't even maybe I 
would have gone in a different direction 
um but now I ask myself those 
intentional questions and usually the 
things that drain me are my love life 
but 
the things that light me up 
um 
you know for me it's all about 
connection I think when you have 
a great conversation with somebody and 
you both like you can feel it when it 
just connects 
and sometimes you can have you could be 
somebody you love and it's just a boring 
conversation because those happen but 
somebody says something or a spark is 
lit and you both feel the connection and 
it just vibrates and you leave that 
conversation feeling energized and 
excited and lit up and like that type of 
connection is what I'm after and a all 
of my interviews be I wish in my love 
life and see 
um you know like in in any relationship 
so yeah I think for me it's connection 
connection is so so important and I'm 
gonna I I love that it's like when you 
feel that Vibe with a certain someone 
right and whether it's professionally or 
personally like when you make new 
friends like I felt that Vibe it's like 
instant chemistry with Danielle you meet 
someone you're like I would like to have 
a second date with you because you're 
fun and you're cool and you're smart and 
we can have these conversations that you 
know that are just going to stay at that 
table and not leave the table now what I 
will tell you in the dating world is if 
you're feeling that like super vibe that 
super electricity and those butterflies 
it might 
not necessarily be a good Harbinger for 
your dating life because sometimes when 
we feel that instant electricity that 
chemistry and even worse those 
butterflies in our stomach that could be 
our gut telling us hey sweet girl you've 
been here before and that didn't end up 
so well so sometimes that electricity in 
dating conversations right away where 
you're like oh my God I feel like we've 
known each other for three lifetimes you 
probably have and it was your three 
toxic axes 
yeah you taught me that because you said 
to me when we were having a drink in La 
one time I think you did the Kelly 
Clarkson show and then we met for drinks 
that's right and you were like I think 
you're a little bit anxiously attached 
and I I'd never heard of any attachment 
Styles before 
um so I went down you sent me down a 
real rabbit hole because I started 
reading that book attached 
um and I realized I am a little bit 
anxiously attached and so I'm working 
towards becoming secure 
and remember number one the awareness 
you ask yourself the question am I what 
kind of attachment do I have and people 
that are anxiously attached can be 
amazing Partners I find myself drinking 
on anxious to secure and I think that 
when we find somebody that is a secure 
partner for us we're the best Partners 
let's tutor our own horns we create best 
Partners we're very eager to please 
we're eager to please and we care and we 
get the details right we get the big 
things right we get the small things 
right but I'm so glad that you're aware 
of that because sometimes you know when 
you're anxiously attached it can mean 
that not the best people activate your 
attachment system right and it can mean 
someone who's kind of you know the 
antagonist to your protagonist let's 
just say you know someone who's more 
emotionally unavailable maybe just 
emotionally avoidant to you sort of 
Feels Like Home to some extent and 
you're like oh wow boom this is exciting 
your attachment system turns on and 
you're like oh my gosh this feels so 
good and exciting but that excitement 
actually what it is is it's putting your 
seat belt on on a roller coaster ride 
and you know that and you've clicked and 
you know you're in for some ups and some 
downs and that's sometimes what that 
electricity can be in those first 
conversations so what you want to do and 
I'm so glad Danielle raised this point 
is really checking in with yourself like 
wait a second is this a Vibe because we 
really have like a Soulful connection 
and something real or is this oh my God 
in my god of guts this person reminds me 
of a really good time with my ex 
and it takes me back to that so I'm glad 
that you raised that I'm glad that you 
raised that in in conversation and 
Danielle has done something you guys and 
I didn't even know this I mean we've 
been friends forever and I know 
Danielle's got her new podcast called 
pretty smart but she's also become an 
entrepreneur and this product that she's 
developed is so near and dear to my 
heart because I love questions and 
meaningful conversations so she's 
developed well first of all I'm going to 
tell you it's a card deck that's filled 
with questions for conversations but I'm 
not going to spoil it I want Danielle to 
tell the story like tell us the story 
like what led you to do this yeah so 
um I had been I at this point I've been 
asking people questions professionally 
for about a decade 
and I'd like to say probably not 
professionally for way longer 
so when I moved to LA one of the big 
jobs I got was at an Entertainment 
Network that I had always wanted to work 
at it was I thought gonna be my dream 
job dream job I was so excited I was 
like the youngest person they'd ever 
hired and I walked in 
and within a few weeks I was miserable I 
broke out into hives every day I would 
cry in the bathroom at lunch I ended up 
quitting the job and living off my 
credit cards and was unemployed for 
eight months 
um I never I thought no one was ever 
gonna hire me again I was a little bit 
depressed and one of the things I did to 
try to actively or be proactive and get 
out of my depression from being 
unemployed was ask myself all of the 
questions that I had been asking 
celebrities like Michael B Jordan and 
Helen Mirren and entrepreneurs like Mark 
Cuban for years so I had a Google doc of 
about 800 questions 
and each day I'd ask myself five or six 
I realized I had never asked myself one 
question this was like pre-therapy 
and at the end of eight months I felt 
way more in touch with who I was I was 
more interesting at dinner because I had 
practiced asking questions 
um I had more to say more to more to 
talk about and I thought you know 
everybody wants this everybody is 
curious and they want connection and 
they want to know about other people 
they just maybe a don't know what to ask 
or B feel nervous entering a 
conversation I mean like I I spark 
conversation for a living and sometimes 
I feel nervous or don't know what to ask 
yeah I created a card deck called 
question everything it's 52 questions 
for deeper conversation and speak to my 
soul with that yeah so at the end of my 
podcast I always pick one random one and 
ask people 
um but yeah I I've tested them out on 
I've done them at a bachelorette party 
I've done them with my dad I've done 
them 
um with you know potential dates and 
they're really fun and they really I 
think spark meaningful stories and 
laughter and conversation that creates 
moments you know it's not just mundane 
who are your siblings where are you from 
um they're moment makers 
oh my gosh I literally like there's so 
many places I can imagine this being 
used even in my own life like I'm 
married and have been married for you 
know a long time over 20 years but I 
could see playing this game in a sense 
and asking questions to my husband and I 
bet you I'd be surprised by at least 50 
percent of the answers that he gave to 
these questions and then playing it with 
my kids as well an extended family and 
then of course we have to look at what 
the best day questions are Danielle and 
I know you know dating is something that 
you are debating doing again 
um I wish you guys could see the 
expression on my face I think Danielle 
is so adorable and has created this 
badass life that she loves already and 
so now we're just gonna bring romantic 
love into her life so what Bella's 
alluding to is that I'm a bad dater I 
don't enjoy dating and so I don't do it 
a lot 
okay now for those of you for those of 
you who are sitting there going I don't 
like dating either now and you think 
it's just you because oh I'm not cute 
enough I'm not smart enough I'm not I'm 
too old okay Danielle as Danielle and if 
you see her right Danielle dressed up 
for Ariana Grande for Halloween because 
she could pull that off okay let's just 
say that's what Danielle sort of looks 
like so if Danielle doesn't like dating 
it just gives the rest of us a sigh of 
relief so Danielle are you gonna commit 
in 2022 to bringing some dating into 
your life intentionally 
I am and you also gave me a really good 
tip because 
I sort of feel exhausted by getting 
ready for dates 
um because I have to get ready for work 
like everybody else and yeah I just it 
just like if people ask me to dinner I 
don't want to sit at a dinner for two 
hours so you said I need to do a video 
chat for 30 minutes and I could do one 
or two 
and that I'm in for I am committed to 
that absolutely now now let's back up to 
this conversation Danielle is not dating 
at all and I was like look you know when 
you get to that point you could don't 
waste hair and makeup you could set up a 
few she's like oh you know that's great 
I could set up eight dates right away I 
was like okay overachiever here's what 
we're gonna do we're gonna turn the 
volume down on that let's do one okay 
and then have fun and set it up with 
boundaries okay say how about we grab 
coffee from five to five thirty over the 
app or over Zoom you can do all of this 
in app you guys you don't have to give 
up your email addresses and set up a 
zoom you can just press like in match or 
Bumble you can just press a blue button 
and you'll be on a video chat obviously 
schedule that don't Ambush anybody with 
the video chat because God knows we need 
to like fluff and judge and do the 
things but then put boundaries around it 
don't set up a date that gives you 
anxiety because you don't know how to 
end the video chat you don't want to be 
rude say I've got dinner plans at 6 30. 
how about we grab coffee or a happy hour 
from 5 to 5 30 on the app okay that's it 
you're limited to 30 minutes and you 
know what I say crazy cannot hide for 
more than 10 minutes it comes leaping 
out of the damn closet so if crazy comes 
out guess what you can just be like oh 
my God my connection's going out and end 
the day so date over Game Over Control 
Alt Delete abort function you're done 
and to your point Danielle with feeling 
anxious about going to dates who 
wouldn't have their anxiety provoked by 
going out to meet a complete stranger 
and then thinking to yourself right what 
are the anxiety provoking thoughts it's 
not oh my gosh what if this is really 
fun that's not what plagues us it's what 
if this person like tell me what gives 
you if you have to sit and you're 
getting ready for a date right now what 
are the thoughts that give you anxiety 
as you're getting ready for the date 
it's a great question number one is like 
uh how am I gonna get out of the date 
because I'm bad at like and like even 
work meetings I never know how to end 
the phone call right and I like they 
just the dates go on and on and on and 
because I'm a decent conversationalist 
like I can kind of fake it you know and 
so they just go on and on and I I just I 
gotta get out you gotta get out so I'm 
glad that you told me about your anxiety 
so this is now a coaching session 
same thing with real dates put 
boundaries around it say how about if 
the person passes the video screen for 
you right okay and now you can lather 
rinse repeat do more video with that 
person you don't have to Spring straight 
to dinner okay so you have the option to 
do more video dates you can say hey I've 
developed this cool card game I'm gonna 
send you it and we can ask each other 
three questions right check somebody's 
curiosity and their flexibility and 
their openness to dating in a different 
way and then when you're ready to 
actually meet in person you can say I've 
got dinner plans at eight o'clock how 
about we meet for drinks from 6 to 7 30. 
yeah constrain it think about what gives 
you the anxiety and solve for that if 
you want an exit stage left plan that's 
the way to do it so now even if the 
date's going well let's say you set it 
up from six to seven thirty and you're 
like oh my God I don't want to leave you 
can leave at 7 45 and just leave the 
person wanting more because the research 
shows that our brains start to interpret 
anybody even the best of people in a 
more negative light after two hours and 
15 minutes 
so keep your dates limited 
wow that is fascinating 
well there was also 
tell me what you think about this 
because one of the things with my card 
deck that I thought was interesting is 
that there was a Harvard Business Review 
study published by uh Allison wood and 
Leslie K and it's called the surprising 
power of questions and they cite that 
the most common complaint people make 
after having a conversation such as a 
first date or a work meeting or an 
interview is I wish so and so had asked 
me more questions it's like this reward 
cycle right it's like we improve our 
emotional intelligence and it makes us 
better questioners which continues the 
whole cycle 
so how do I stop asking questions 
because I've also gotten feedback that 
oh this feels like an interview it's a 
deposition not a date 
do I just let silence happen 
well what you can do sometimes we can be 
great listeners but we're not good 
sharers 
right that's me that is me I I get it 
because when I read that I was like oh 
God guilty right and it takes a really 
interest it takes right it takes me 
trusting somebody to be a sharer because 
I'm very similar well it can compel you 
with questions because I'm inherently 
curious and I want to get to know you 
and I love people and I love hearing 
people's stories but yes in order to not 
make it feel like a deposition I would 
say if I had your card deck what I would 
do is I would look at the questions 
first and I would do what you did back 
in the day and say well I'm going to ask 
myself six of these questions a day and 
develop my own muscle at answering these 
questions so instead of just taking the 
card deck out and then blindly asking 
questions play with yourself and answer 
the questions on your own you guys and 
not only me will you be a more 
interesting dater but you're going to be 
a more interesting date because you will 
have the answers ready to go and it's 
something that Danielle said when and I 
think it was earlier in this 
conversation that doing this like 
preparing answers to questions made her 
a heck of a lot more interesting at 
dinners in all of these conversations so 
I can't wait to because I'm not a great 
sharer and so having your card deck in 
order to really look at myself and say 
God how would I answer that I feel like 
that in and of itself is a great way for 
people like you like me and maybe for 
those of you listening to become better 
sharers and sometimes sharing just means 
you're prepared and you know the answer 
no you're so right that's great advice 
and you and I in our jobs I'm a coach 
I'm a podcast host my goal is to get to 
know other people and ask the questions 
to be able to give advice back right in 
order to give so I think this will be a 
great benefit for me to have to sit down 
with me and say well how would I answer 
that question so are there a couple of 
questions like if you know those of you 
there's probably a lot of single people 
that are listening to us are there some 
questions that you as a single person 
with your card deck in hand what would 
you like someone to ask you or what do 
you think are some good dating questions 
in your deck 
that's a good one because I also think 
you don't want to get too deep 
necessarily like you can freak somebody 
out no no stay out of the dark alleys 
like what's your greatest trauma how's 
your relationship with your mother 
that's not even the definition of 
vulnerability right because people talk 
so much about it I want to be vulnerable 
remember brene Brown says vulnerability 
without boundaries is not vulnerability 
yeah it's over sharing it's over sharing 
and that'll leave someone like going to 
the bathroom and maybe not coming back 
so yes and I've had people do that to me 
and it feels weird so I think this one's 
fun it's do plants Thrive or die in your 
care 
that feels like a fun one that's a great 
question do plants die or thrive in your 
care 
I love that what's the story behind your 
name what's your nickname and who gave 
it to you 
um people have surprisingly interesting 
stories behind their names and you kind 
of get to know about their parents and 
their background 
um and then like their friends because 
their friends usually nickname them 
I love that I love that do you want me 
to share a little tidbit tell me yeah 
about your name so growing up my parents 
just like the name Bella and it's one L 
right and it's kind of an Indian name 
but it's also like globally a very 
unisex name but what's interesting is 
if you know me well you can tell 
what period of Life by what someone 
addresses me where they come from do 
they come from like my college life or 
before or do they come from my 
professional life anybody that knows me 
from back in the day really well calls 
me Belle they never ever ever ever ever 
call me Bella my family my best friends 
from that time my husband his parents 
it's uh if somebody calls me Bella 
they're pissed right because I'm like oh 
my God if he uses like my full name I'm 
like oh my God you're mad so it's so 
strange but in my in my post in my 
professional life nobody calls me Belle 
and it's just funny and and I don't know 
if people started calling me that I 
would be completely fine with it but 
it's just it's so interesting so that's 
my name story I love that and I see I 
didn't know that and I've known you for 
years yeah right so you could call me 
Bell if you wanted to I'm going to start 
putting you know I'm dropping the a 
exactly you're like hey Val what's going 
on exactly okay so now you tell me which 
one you like better because 
this could be maybe a little deep 
so what's something you wish people 
could see about you that they don't see 
at first glance 
or 
this is a three-part what compliment do 
you hear the most which compliment means 
the most to you and which one makes you 
the most uncomfortable 
um 
okay so I'm going to answer your first 
question was which one is let's say more 
date appropriate like the initial dates 
I think the compliment question is a 
lighter question okay okay but it still 
allows you to shine on a date without 
having to say what's something that more 
people would notice about you because 
that's kind of a poking beneath the 
veneer and we're getting a little deeper 
now right I wish people would see that 
I'm really an introvert but I play an 
extrovert on TV whatever that is but if 
somebody's like oh what's the compliment 
that you always get right and so that's 
really nice and remember and I love that 
you picked that question and I swear you 
guys we I even have the card deck in my 
hands right now but that's such a great 
question Danielle that you picked you're 
going to be such a good dater because 
you want dates to feel fun and positive 
where people get to talk about the the 
things that light them up which is 
usually themselves to your point which 
is why you've created this but then the 
positive things about themselves because 
at the end of the day what do we all 
crave we want to be seen we want to be 
respected and admired and we want to 
hear some words of affirmation right and 
so that question is so brilliant so say 
the question again and it's three parts 
what compliment do you hear most often 
which complement means the most to you 
and which compliment makes you the most 
uncomfortable okay so interesting so I 
love that so I am like so excited and so 
now you know you can ask that on a date 
yeah now we have stock questions we're 
prepared to ask exactly you and I are 
gonna have an offline session a date 
coaching session where we're gonna we're 
gonna separate your card deck into okay 
it says dates one through three this is 
five through ten and this is after you 
have children 
I love it how does that sound that's 
perfect I definitely need that thank you 
oh my gosh I am so excited for 
um and I will certainly I know I'm 
definitely gonna buy these and so you 
guys will put a link in the show notes 
as to where you two can get these cards 
and I just think it's a fun idea number 
one we're supporting our girl Danielle 
who is stretching her wings as an 
entrepreneur so I'm all about a rising 
tide should lift all boats so we can 
support Danielle because she's Danielle 
and she's doing her heart's desire and 
not only are you not only are you doing 
that but you're also helping yourself 
because you like me are gonna sit down 
and answer those damn questions for 
yourself and you might need to journal 
but then think about how much more 
prepared you're gonna feel at 
Thanksgiving dinners at holiday dinners 
for your Valentine's Day dates because I 
know you guys are all going to have 
Valentine's Day dates so I'm so excited 
and you know I'm just I'm so grateful 
and I know how busy your schedule is and 
I'm so grateful that you took the time 
out to have this conversation with me to 
have this conversation with our audience 
about creating that life that you love 
and asking yourself those questions you 
guys what lights me up and what drains 
me if there's some juice in here take 
that and make that list for yourself 
today and know that as much of a life as 
Danielle has created for herself that 
she loves she's still just like so many 
of you looking to bring more love into 
her life so what I want to tell you is 
we are all in this together holding 
hands bringing more love into the world 
and I'm so grateful that you were here 
and Danielle is there any you know kind 
of last thing that you'd like to share 
with people just you know I don't know a 
bit of advice something to make their 
life better or something whatever 
because you know 
I've lately been thinking because people 
will ask me 
um about conversation a lot right 
because I do it every day and they're 
like how do I how do I become more 
interesting or how do I make a moment 
and I kept thinking that the most 
interesting thing is to be interested 
and so if you don't know what to say 
just ask a question and it actually I 
thought her therapists do this with kids 
they'll ask what do you think about the 
snow or what do you like basic things to 
build confidence because they want to 
know that their opinion matters and I 
think adults are the same way so the 
most interesting thing is to be 
interested 
oh I love that like we need to make 
t-shirts out of so many things that have 
been said during this conversation with 
Danielle don't you think so Danielle 
thank you so much for joining us and for 
all of you guys listening if you love 
this episode 
download it review it I don't want it 
Valentine's Day present I don't want a 
birthday present give us a review tell 
us what you thought grab Danielle's card 
deck and follow me on Smart dating 
Academy on Instagram we do free 
Instagram live show our goal is to put 
more love into your life and bring more 
life into your love so thank you as 
always for being here with us and we 
will see you next time thanks Danielle 
thanks Belle no a 
