[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back 
Happy New Year I think it's now the new 
year and we're recording this obviously 
a couple of weeks in advance so um I 
hope Peak dating season is going well 
for you I am so excited to bring you 
someone who I not only consider an 
amazing expert an amazing author 
podcaster blogger but also an amazing 
friend 
um we have a thousand connections 
between our friend groups and I'm very 
lucky to have her in our pool of 
resources and I'm happy to have Jackie 
pilisoff with us who is the creator of 
the divorced girl smiling Community 
amazing author former present journalist 
she does a lot of amazing things so 
without further Ado I'm going to welcome 
Jackie on here for this episode that I 
want you all to get your notebooks out 
because we're going to be talking about 
the top 10 possible reasons why you 
didn't hear back from someone you 
thought you had a good date with Jackie 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast 
Bella thanks so much for having me this 
is going to be really fun I am so 
excited so just tell us a little bit 
about who you are and then let's get 
into the juice all right 
so I spent 
if I added up 
probably over 20 years dating I dated 
let's say I started dating when I was 16 
and I didn't get married till I was 35 
so I spent all of those years dating 
and then I got divorced at 41 and I 
dated again until I was 49 and met the 
love of my life so I feel like I have 
all this dating experience to share and 
what I did right what I did wrong what I 
learned and then also I have dating 
experience and also dating after divorce 
experience and those two things are two 
different things I think 
completely and so you know what it's 
like you went through a brutal divorce 
and you know how lonely and isolating it 
feels and that was part of the birth of 
the divorce girls smiling Community 
right absolutely I felt like I was on an 
island it was 2008 so the internet and 
the social media wasn't what it is today 
and I really felt like there was no one 
out there who heard me could listen to 
me that I could connect with there 
wasn't even such a thing as a dating 
coach or a divorce coach that didn't 
even exist yet so really it was lonely 
and it was my inspiration to help other 
people through starting a brand divorced 
girl smiling 
well I'm so glad to hear have you here I 
had heard from so many friends Bella you 
need to know Jackie she's cool and she's 
a great blogger so I'm so delighted that 
you have joined us today so tell us what 
inspired you to write this article about 
10 possible reasons why you didn't hear 
back and let's get right into it 
great so for people listening I have a 
Facebook group page that has thousands 
of women on it and they're talking to 
each other so I can see what these women 
are saying and what they're feeling and 
what their dating experiences are 
and I can't even count the number of 
comments people will post on the 
Facebook page I have this great day and 
for I thought for sure everything was 
going perfect and then I never heard 
from him he never even texted me this is 
the funniest one oh well no not funny 
it's kind of sad funny but it is funny a 
woman was dating this guy they went out 
on a couple dates on like the third date 
they went shopping she's trying on 
clothes he's telling her what he likes 
everything's going perfect he says oh 
hold on I'll be right back I have to go 
outside for a second never came back and 
never contacted her again now I just 
said that was funny so now I sound like 
a horrible person that's not funny it's 
just so shocking why would somebody do 
that you know and so I think there's a 
lot of pain out there from women who are 
dating and you know when someone doesn't 
call back it feels very personal and it 
feels very awful and you think to 
yourself your first gut instinct is what 
did I do what did I do wrong and that's 
something I hope today Bella you and I 
can tell people that it's not you there 
are so many other reasons why you might 
not have called okay I love that so tell 
us reason number one 
all right but before I get to reason 
number one I want to say one thing I 
think if somebody doesn't contact you 
after the date that it's really kind of 
rude so I guess the reason why I'm 
telling you this is I think that if you 
go out with somebody and you don't 
really think there's a love connection 
and you don't want to go out again at 
least 
send a nice tax thank the person for 
dinner or just say you know just be 
honest and say I'm not in a place right 
now that to date or whatever you're 
gonna say because 
then you're treating the person with 
respect and all that good karma is going 
to come back to you don't you think I 
love that I love that and especially if 
you have been out on a date like people 
ask me all the time with online dating 
like if somebody messages me do I have 
to say it thanks but no thanks like no 
if somebody has just messaged you and 
you're not and you know this person 
isn't a good fit save your energy for 
people that are a good fit but I 
completely agree with you after a date 
it's nice if you know there were red 
flags especially in smart daters you 
know you can hear me in your head even 
if you're not all attracted but you feel 
like you had fun give this person a 
second date but if there are red flags 
and you know okay this person isn't 
going to be a good fit for me or they're 
showing signs of being a narcissist or 
an avoidant or you know then it's okay 
to send that goodbye sandwich kind of 
text where we say say something nice get 
to the reason and then you know say 
something nice again so see you're 10 
steps ahead of me so you're right and I 
guess the point of me telling you this 
is if if he didn't call you back and you 
never heard from him I think kind of 
rude and says a lot about a person so 
maybe what I'm saying is no big loss 
exactly exactly all right so thank you 
for proceeding your list with that so 
tell us what one of these reasons are 
why someone didn't call you back or call 
you after a date all right so the first 
one I have is he got back together with 
an X 
and I personally experience this on a 
date once where I went out with this guy 
had a great time kissed him good night 
like just for like 20 seconds great kiss 
this was before I was married and then 
Bella he never called me back it always 
bothered me and this was before texting 
so there was no way to know anything 
I've got my closure 
15 years later 
I saw him at a party and I go 
you know it's really you wanna know why 
didn't you call me back like it's been 
he goes really it's right I go yeah it's 
been bothering me for like a decade and 
he goes honestly I got back together 
with my girlfriend who's now my wife we 
have three kids you were the only person 
I dated when we broke up and then I 
realized I wanted to be with her and 
that was it that made me feel so good oh 
you wanted that closure yeah 
all right well that's a good you never 
know you guys if someone didn't call you 
back and maybe it's like Jackie this is 
you know a bug that's been on you for 
decades right or it could have been last 
week you just never know where someone 
is so that's a great ostensible reason 
so what's reason number two 
reason number two is that he realized he 
just isn't ready to date right now and 
that is very true for a lot of divorced 
men I have actually written whole 
articles on the divorced man because I 
feel like I know him so well 
and a lot of these men 
they date right away after a divorce and 
then 
they all of a sudden say you know what I 
need a break and they're just not ready 
to date that happens kind of a lot 
it does and we coach men as well as 
women and that absolutely sometimes we 
realize or divorced men or widowed men 
we have them both right and sometimes 
guys are no different to some extent 
feelings or feelings we're all human 
beings at the end of the day and 
sometimes they've heard too many no's 
right they've realized oh my gosh maybe 
I'm not yet over my ex right whatever it 
is maybe I'm not over my deceased 
partner and they need to take a dating 
break and it has nothing to do with you 
they just realize they have some other 
things to work through and a lot of 
times I'll tell you I'm not going to 
speak for all men but you know women 
have other women to talk to right and we 
get a lot of our therapy from the women 
in our villages in addition to see 
seeking out therapists and coaches men 
unfortunately sometimes they don't do 
any of that they don't know to do any of 
that women we are everything to these 
guys sometimes we're their therapists 
their wives their girlfriends their 
Partners their best friends and they're 
left isolated right and sometimes they 
go on dates and they're like oh my God I 
don't know what just hit me but that 
didn't feel right so it's not about you 
a lot of times it is about them and 
they're just not ready and something in 
them just flipped over the edge so bless 
and release those guys and do you really 
want to be with someone who is in that 
state right now no let him get the help 
he needs get it together and you could 
meet him meet up with him months or 
years later and it could work out I've 
heard of stories like that too 
100 I have clients that have been 
ghosted by someone after five great 
dates they hear from that person again 
and they say and that person will say I 
wasn't ready to date you back then but 
I've done my work and now I'm back and 
I'm like okay are they a ghosting risk 
again as their dating coach I make these 
guys jump through hoops of fire for 
three to six months before we get 
exclusive with them again but there are 
guys that know at that point I'm not 
ready for you you are too amazing for me 
and I've got some issues that I need to 
work through so that I can be 
comfortable dating somebody as smart 
successful and as together as you are 
and it does happen 
and isn't it good that they're realizing 
it 
100 now I'm not saying all guys but 
there are those gems of human beings 
that are like well I can't date you 
because I think you're like so much and 
you're more successful or you're like 
I've swam out of my Lane so much that 
I've got issues where I feel like I need 
to date down those guys some of them 
never get over that but some do say wow 
the common denominator in this is me so 
I need to go out and get some do some 
work on myself and then they come back 
so absolutely and I'm sure there's so 
many women listening to this who are 
super successful professionally and 
that's really hard 
being in the dating scene with being 
someone who's really professionally 
successful it intimidates a lot of men 
sadly 
100 percent so well related to this but 
different let's get into reason number 
three okay 
he well it is related he feels bad about 
himself there's something about him 
maybe he doesn't feel like he's good 
enough for you maybe he just doesn't 
like himself what I've learned over the 
years is that if you don't like yourself 
when you're with someone either you're 
not ready to date or you are with the 
wrong person because when you meet 
somebody who's a real connection you 
love how you present when you're with 
the person you're like wow I'm sure 
myself I'm sad I feel good I look good 
and it emits and so you just 
you you have to feel good about yourself 
if you want a date to be successful and 
if a guy doesn't it might have nothing 
to do with you he just doesn't feel good 
about himself 
and is there a way to know that when 
you're on a date with somebody 
it's interesting because people disguise 
it so well don't you think that well 
like they they 
the most cocky people really have bad 
self-esteem sometimes 
I agree with that and cocky to your 
point is different than confidence right 
happiness comes with an arrogance 
an air of superiority which ultimately 
is a disguise for feeling badly about 
ourselves right so if somebody comes in 
and they're acting cocky and they're 
speaking negatively about people that 
are next to you at the next table like 
oh look at that guy like he looks like 
something the Cat Dragged In oh my gosh 
I hate that right and so that could be a 
sign that when someone feels bad about 
themselves they're going to project 
negativity on others let me quote Taylor 
Swift right the haters gonna hate hate 
hate hate hate so so that's what it is 
so that's a sure sign and I couldn't 
agree with you more that someone doesn't 
like themselves is if they've got 
something bad to say about everybody 
else or they're trying to convince you 
about why they're better than everybody 
else they're secretly trying to convince 
themselves that they're good enough and 
it's sad 100 and you know what the 
winning combination is 
confidence with humility 
yeah you know 
is that the word I'm looking for yes 
okay 100 it's being humble right it's 
harmful and confident at the same time 
is the most winning combination 
and I love what you said about people 
when you're with people that are good 
bets for you that you feel like the best 
version of yourself and that comes down 
to I believe feeling very comfortable in 
the presence of this person who's 
comfortable with himself and therefore 
also super comfortable with you and 
you're feeling that connection because 
you're not being somebody you're not 
you're not worried about does he like me 
am I saying things the right way oh my 
God is he looking at my crow's feet is 
he looking at my boobs that I feel like 
looks saggy in this dress if you're 
feeling lit up it's because you feel 
like this person genuinely likes you and 
the version of you that you are 100 
percent 
yay so 
make sure 
I was debating telling this story of how 
when I first got divorced I dated this 
guy 
and he kind of strung me along for a 
really long time I called him the hot 
and cold guy okay and it just was the 
worst thing you could possibly do for 
your self-esteem is stay with someone 
who's hot and cold because then you 
become addicted to the times he's hot 
and then you just hate yourself when 
you're with them when he's cold because 
you're like why am I staying in this 
and I never liked myself when I was 
around him I always would be like 
thinking because he didn't like me if 
someone's hot and cold they don't like 
you enough or they have their that's a 
whole nother topic but they have other 
issues or whatever and they just it's 
not gonna work out but if if you don't 
like yourself with somebody you gotta 
get out 
because they're not the right person for 
you when you're with the right person 
you are just going to love how you 
present with them 
exactly because it's real and it's 
authentic and you're not putting on an 
act right it's like I love even when I 
meet a new friend right it's like 
suddenly when you just feel like you're 
lit up like a chandelier because this 
person likes you and they're interested 
in you and you're just yourself and 
you're uncensored in a really positive 
way and you're not worrying about what 
they think about you it's like those are 
where those real connections truly 
happen and it doesn't have to be someone 
who's like oh my God I'm really in awe 
of her because blah blah blah blah it's 
like just those connections where you 
know your soul lights up on fire right 
it's like a good energy it's like that 
great energy so so let's get into reason 
number four tell us what that is all 
right before this podcast I was like oh 
you know what I didn't think of but I 
did because it's reason number four he 
doesn't think you are interested and 
people listening or probably thinking oh 
no that's not true this guy had to have 
known no it could have been that he 
really didn't think you were interested 
and 
how do you know like you and I were 
talking about this a little bit and you 
guys this happens and Jackie maybe you 
have a good story because you seem to 
have all these great things stories and 
and I can tell you there are times and 
again this gets back to was he maybe 
feeling badly about himself and he had 
the you know I've had so many women say 
no to me when I've asked them out I have 
guys that'll come to me and they're like 
I'm the four day Wonder like I can get 
to the fourth date but as soon as it 
gets to the 15th the bottom falls out 
and when you start to look at anything 
including yourself with those lenses you 
tend to not behave like yourself and 
you're going to view anything that 
happens on that date through that 
negative filter right so again we're not 
saying it's anything you did to make him 
think you're not interested that 
probably comes down to something a story 
that he was telling himself about 
himself or about you and how you've 
reacted so here's the antidote that 
Jackie and I were discussing before this 
podcast how do you know 
if someone was interested or not so I'll 
get right into my kind of antidote if 
you're good with that yeah that's what I 
was waiting for 
so 
we have this happen obviously a day 
coaches at Smart dating Academy all the 
time we've got hundreds of clients and 
sometimes it's like oh my God I thought 
it was such a great date but I haven't 
heard from him it's been a day it's been 
two days it's been three days we're like 
okay what you're gonna do with that 
point is say number one tell yourself 
it's okay for me to make the first move 
okay if I haven't heard from someone and 
if you and your gut felt like it was a 
good date right and you're confused send 
what we call the nudge text or the nudge 
email right whatever that is a nudge 
phone call whatever it is but it's let's 
say you had a great date with someone 
named Mark at Starbucks and you grabbed 
coffee and it was easy conversation it 
was fun and you really felt like you 
were the best version of yourself and 
you're like yes I would love to do this 
again you did all the things right and 
you haven't heard from Mark so this 
actually happened to a client of mine 
and so after three day Mark she was 
devastated and she hadn't heard from him 
and she said what do I do I thought it 
was such a great date I said send him a 
nudge text and so she's like I can't do 
that I'm the woman this is his 
responsibility he should be doing this 
he probably doesn't like me I can't 
stand more rejection I'm like let's take 
off all those negative Nelly glasses and 
just say I've got nothing to lose at 
this point because I haven't heard from 
him right so let's say hey Mark I just 
drove by the Starbucks where we met and 
a funny story like I couldn't stop 
thinking about our discussion about 
koala bears and one popped up on my 
Instagram feed and I was thinking they 
might have been present on our date 
right so hope you're having a great 
weekend surviving the blizzard okay so 
now she took the steering wheel into her 
own hands I did basically harangue her 
into doing this text five minutes later 
you guys she got a text back from him 
and it said it's so good to hear from 
you would you like to go out on Saturday 
guess what they're now married because 
of the nudge text and you know what 
happened he was so shy and he had heard 
so many no's and he just thought you 
know what I'm sure she didn't like me 
and he did nothing he dropped the ball 
and so what my client did by sending 
that nudge text was tell him I did like 
you I did have a good time and she had 
50 50 odds if and I said to her if he 
doesn't text you back then we have our 
answer or if it takes him five days to 
text you back but if he does like you 
and he thought you didn't like him he 
will take the ball and run with it and 
that is exactly what happened a hundred 
percent and actually I have a very 
similar story because I sent a nudge 
text that resulted in an eight-year 
relationship where I now live with my I 
call him my love of my life and 
basically we went out we went out to 
dinner we had a great time I mean 
fantastic first date at the end of the 
night we did a little 10 second kiss no 
big deal got a nice text from him the 
next day and then nothing and then it 
gets to be like almost a week and I'm 
like I was going insane I called my 
girlfriend and I go you know what should 
I do I'm going crazy and she's like text 
him and of course that's my first thing 
I'm like I'd rather die no I'm not 
texting him she's like just text them do 
it you know 
because he was you know had not dated 
much 
during and after his divorce so 
he wasn't experienced so I sent a text 
and all I said was just thinking about 
you had such a great time was wondering 
if you want to get together again 
soon and I know Bella you probably don't 
recommend doing that but I did that oh 
I'm all for it I literally got a text 
back within two minutes saying great 
how's Saturday night and really we 
always joke about it and I'm like you 
know what if I wouldn't have sent that 
text and he just said you know I was 
really shy and I didn't really know what 
I was doing and probably didn't have the 
confidence at that point you know just 
was kind of nervous didn't really know 
what he was doing but he's like I would 
have taxed it and I'm like okay whatever 
so 
that is my story that's I I sent the 
nudge text and I have been happy for 
almost eight years 
and you guys I can vouch for the fact 
that he's an amazing guy because I met 
him coming out of my car at a common 
friend's birthday party so Jackie's 
definitely found the lid to her pot he's 
adorable and so nice and adores you so 
thank goodness for your girlfriend who 
had you send the text I know 
oh it's true 
that's awesome so for people listening 
it's gonna happen to you too 
100 you guys remember 
psychotic optimism okay love exists for 
me it's a when it's not an if Jackie 
found the lid to her pot I found the lid 
to my pot hundreds thousands of our 
clients have found the lids to their pot 
and just because you haven't yet love is 
coming to new you new year new you right 
you're listening to this and remember 
2023 is going to be a good year for love 
and just because it hasn't happened yet 
it will that's why the word yet is yet 
it's going to come to you so keep the 
faith the fact that you're listening to 
this episode tells me how motivated you 
are to make some changes in your dating 
life so we are spreading our fairy 
godmothers and I'm sending it through 
the listening wires right now for you to 
know that love is out there for you all 
I all I can't tell you is the exact date 
and year that that person will arrive 
but if you keep doing the things and 
educating Yourself by listening to 
conversations and podcasts like these 
you will find the lid to your pot so 
okay 
with that and what do you want to say to 
people is that 
you can only control what you can 
control 
and so you can control listening to 
podcasts and maybe you know signing up 
with Bella and working with her and and 
really trying to do as much as you can 
if you want to meet someone after that 
it's all up to fate and just have faith 
because good things happen to good 
people and it will happen to you 
you just have to have faith and realize 
what you can control and what you can't 
exactly and what you can control is 
having the right mindset having the 
right strategy and having the right 
stamina you guys and to know Love Is 
Gonna Come to you and if you need to 
take a break take a break from it but it 
will definitely come to you and there's 
just no doubt in my mind or Jackie's 
mind about it all so 
with that little PSA for psychotic 
optimism and having the right mindset 
into 2023 let's get into reason number 
five Jackie all right someone might not 
have contacted you this is this one I 
don't know what do you think of this 
Bella he lost your contact information 
so you know I have one word Serendipity 
I mean it's one of my favorite movies 
and that's exactly what happened 
but do you think it's real 
well I was gonna ask you do you think 
this is on your list has this happened 
do you think this is an ostensible 
reason in today's day and age with cell 
phones and dating apps like 
I feel like if somebody got their phone 
stolen there's no way they would have 
your contact information at that point 
right 
a hundred percent and also okay so 
there's two schools of thought the first 
one is if someone wants to find you 
they'll find you you know remember that 
movie He's Just Not That Into You and 
the guy said love it I once called 57 
Jenny so-and-so's to find this girl that 
I loved and you know so in today's day 
and age you can Google someone to find 
them you can really get in touch with 
them but I do think especially with 
older people 
maybe not so much and maybe somebody 
lost your contact or lost their phone 
and you know maybe it's it's a remote 
possibility but it does happen I think 
it does happen so at that point I mean 
people have right smashed their phones I 
know my brother was just on vacation 
dropped his phone into an ocean I've had 
my phone stolen right so there are odd 
circumstances that can happen so why not 
right if you've done the nudge text you 
haven't heard back from this person you 
know what and it says like undeliverable 
doesn't mean that he blocked you it 
could mean somebody you know his phone 
might be at the bottom of the Adriatic 
Sea and you know there's just something 
karmic about that and if it's meant to 
be it's going to happen so why not 
imagine the best possible scenario right 
exactly he's dying to contact me and 
he's searching the Earth and calling 57 
you know Jackie pillowsoft's to find the 
right Jackie Phillips off 
I think there's only one right there is 
certainly only one is there any other 
Bella Gandhi's there is there's a 
pediatrician in Columbus Ohio because 
when I've Googled myself as you all 
should do again dating PSA to yourself 
Google your first name last name see 
what comes up there is a pediatrician in 
Columbus Ohio so I am not the only one 
certainly there's going to be more if 
two were even googleable 
right is there another Jackie pillow 
talk yeah no nowhere wow all right 
ladies and gentlemen if you're looking 
for a great name Jackie pilosoft is 
untaken besides the one the only who's 
on this podcast so 
um so let's talk about reason number six 
oh this is a biggie and that's someone 
else and I think it's that's a really 
tough pill to swallow if you really like 
someone and now you're thinking in your 
head you're playing this whole thing in 
your head a movie about him with this 
other girl holding hands and the music's 
playing and he's all happy and 
everyone's with someone unhappy except 
you you're all alone so don't go there 
that's just not worth it and it's just 
unhealthy to do that but I think it's 
very common when people start to date 
they're dating a couple different people 
and then something just clicks with 
someone on and maybe that's the reason 
he never called and listen how can you 
take that personally you just dated 
someone else's husband 
that's all 
it wasn't meant to be exactly you dated 
someone else's husband I love that right 
the universe has a path for this person 
and you're not the wife and it's okay 
for that so and and realize as much as 
we've talked about and I know last week 
when we did our five episode drop we 
talked about creating a dating funnel 
and how you should date multiple people 
at the same time right and you're 
educated because you're listening to 
this podcast but there's a lot of people 
that don't know that you know if you've 
had two or three good dates with 
somebody it doesn't mean you could 
should or would want to turn off your 
dating funnel at that point but again 
nobody's taught how to date you guys 
nobody is has sat through the course 
that I think we should have all done 
which maybe someday I'll get around to 
doing with Smart dating academies what 
should we all learn at 16 17 or 18 about 
dating and how we should do this you 
don't have to unplug just because you've 
been on two or three good dates with 
somebody and it's not disingenuous to do 
that but especially when we've come out 
of a marriage maybe we're freshly out of 
divorce we've been monogamous with the 
partner and we can't fathom oh my gosh 
well if I had two good dates with Jackie 
I can't go out with Marla on the third 
day because that is like cheating on 
Jackie and we're here to say no it's not 
you're not you've been on two dates with 
her maybe you've spent three cumulative 
hours which is not even the time between 
breakfast and lunch okay you don't have 
to make that decision right now so 
people don't know how to do this so it 
is reasonable that he might say well 
maybe I'm more serious about this other 
person at this point so I'm going to 
have to cut you off I see things happen 
every day with smart daters that come 
back to silly things like this it's like 
he told me he can't date anybody because 
he's been on three day it's with this 
other person and he wants to see how it 
goes I'm like just give him my number 
and you know what that's such a good 
point because what if you date someone 
and you're the reason it's going so well 
is because you realize much later that 
you were in a really healthy good place 
you could have clicked with anybody 
because you're just really in a great 
place and you're just everything is just 
so positive so to limit yourself to one 
person even if you like really really 
like the person you'll know when it's 
time to to commit don't you think 
absolutely and if you don't know the 
time to commit you guys know that we 
talk about wait 15 to 20 dates give it 
three months at least before you pull 
yourself out right this is advice that 
our clients heed and it works because 
then you don't ignore red flags you do 
things slowly you Pace things the right 
way especially if you've got a history 
of picking bad people it's even more 
important to take things slowly and to 
have support around you but yes if you 
I'll say with the caveat you'll know 
when it's time to meet the right person 
if you're a healthy dater if you haven't 
been a healthy dater then you might need 
a village around you to help you know is 
this a good person for me or is this not 
it's kind of funny that you just said 
three months I mean three months do you 
know how many people who get divorced 
they date someone for three months and 
then they get engaged and get married 
again and that is why second marriage 
rates are over 70 percent I mean I'm 
sorry second divorce second marriage 
divorces yeah so three months not only 
are people 
committed not only are people just not 
dating other people they're getting 
engaged 
so fast because they want to 
outrun the grief outrun The Emptiness 
cover the Band-Aid put a bag yeah right 
and so you don't want to fall into those 
statistics so if you need to fix your 
picker 
send us an email you guys this is what 
we do every single day at Smart dating 
Academy we help you to fix your broken 
Pickers and if your picker's broken 
there's no shame right because most of 
us have had broken Pickers maybe 
throughout our entire lives or through 
parts of our Lives again we aren't 
taught how to do this right we can't 
pick who our parents are we can't pick 
the things that happen to us but you 
certainly can choose who you're going to 
pick in the future so now let's go to 
reason number seven 
okay number seven he's a player and does 
it to everyone 
players gonna play play play play play 
play I must be on a Taylor Swift tear 
right now so so yes we you know one of 
the five episode drops from last week 
was how to know if you're dating a 
player right and you know if this person 
is a player right they're just doing 
this to everybody they're not really in 
it for a real relationship and if you 
send them a nudge they don't respond 
whatever 
okay it's funny I know I have a great 
story about this share share in all of 
its Glory Jackie 
all right of course so I know this guy 
who 
was dating a friend of mine and he 
really was a player and I kept saying to 
her like this is not a good guy he's a 
player not not meaning he wasn't a good 
person just not good 
and he would you know not call her back 
and he was kind of like hot and cold 
then they stop seeing each other and a 
few months later my another friend of 
mine says I'm dating this great guy 
we're I think we're in love it's been 
like a month we are just so happy he 
calls me every night he wants to spend 
time with me he's taking me on vacation 
it was the same guy 
and so I said well it's either that 
something happened where he's in a 
better place 
or 
he it was just the person he met someone 
who he was really 
willing to commit to in a much different 
way than the other girl you know not 
because the other girl there's something 
wrong with her it just wasn't a good fit 
whereas this other girl so he showed up 
as a player in one relationship and not 
in another 
so that was it seems like maybe he just 
wasn't that into your first friend 
yeah I mean for whatever reason he 
you know whether it was just he was not 
interested or maybe he did some work on 
himself before he dated the other girl I 
don't really know but again can't take 
it personally both girls are cute girls 
really nice people they both have it 
together he just really for whatever 
reason clicked with this other girl and 
got rid of his player ways 
well I can tell you that doing what we 
do at Smart dating Academy Lindsay 
Eileen and I between us we have we have 
giant spreadsheets and we do see people 
that are narcissistic avoidant or 
players and if that person who's on our 
skull and crossbones list comes up with 
another client we're like no you cannot 
date him and this is why and they're so 
grateful to know that like oh my gosh he 
did that to one of your other clients 
it's like yeah right so this is a Bad 
Bet of a person so we've seen people 
that are truly like the bad apples so we 
have a do not date list 
oh my gosh a DND but okay wait do you 
ever see somebody change though is it 
possible not with those dnds so we have 
enough data that we've collected because 
these people tend to continue to like 
whack-a-mole they you think they're out 
of the dating pool then they come back 
up again and we've I've had Smart dating 
Academy for 13 and a half years so 
that's a long time to be able to see 
what a person is doing and sometimes the 
things people have done are so egregious 
to some of our clients that we're just 
like right this person goes on it you're 
dead to US list just as a human being 
like that is so seven Sigma from what's 
okay or normal 
okay maybe my player guys on the DND 
list at smartdating Academy is it like 
is his name RM no I'm just kidding 
we've got we've got many people on the 
list I'd have to go in and see if he's 
on the list with his photos so too funny 
so all right well let's uh players if 
you need to know the signs of a player 
go back to last week episode saying are 
you dating someone what are the signs of 
a player so 
um it's all there for you so let's talk 
about reason number eight 
okay so reason number eight was is just 
bad timing and either maybe he got 
really busy at work or started traveling 
or you know something happened with a 
family member it could be anything that 
has made his life change and it just 
turns out to be really bad timing yeah 
yeah well it's funny I have a good 
client story about that I had a client 
that went on a Spate of first dates and 
she's beautiful and lovely and an 
attorney and she was in maybe her late 
40s at this point had never been married 
and she was like Bella I swear to you I 
have gone out with guys that are so much 
older than me that they have walked into 
the date with a cane I'm like oh my God 
so she was really casting her net out 
super what she's like even the guy with 
the cane has not asked me out for a 
second date so she was like I I'm so 
done with this so she said I'm going to 
take a dating detox I said okay that's 
fine let's take off two weeks and it was 
right around the holiday season and so 
she woke up on Christmas Eve to a 
message from a guy named Brian who was 
in one of those we had a great date I 
sent nudge I didn't hear anything back 
like what the hell is wrong and so he 
said to her to your point I am so sorry 
that I didn't contact you eight weeks 
ago after our first date it's the best 
first date I've been on I mentioned 
during that date that I was probably 
going to start my own business and I 
want to let you know that since our date 
I quit my job I started my business I 
couldn't apologize more and I would love 
to take you out on that second date 
and she texted me she's like what do I 
do I'm like go on the date they are now 
married and they live in Austin Texas 
so the timing was really bad not 
excusing the fact that he didn't that he 
didn't say you know timing's really bad 
can I get back to you he should have but 
he knew it and he took accountability 
for his actions right and they're now 
married and he's an amazing partner to 
her 
he sounds like a good guy and I bet the 
business is successful totally totally 
and she invited me to her wedding but I 
got 
an ear infection and was grounded by my 
ENT and couldn't fly to her wedding so 
crazy Bad Karma for for me that I 
wouldn't wasn't able to be there but I 
had never heard of an ear infection on 
an adult I mean when you know when you 
have babies and every week you're in the 
pediatrician 
like Dr Bella Gandhi in Ohio and he go 
into the pediatrician and you get 
antibiotics but that's so strange I've 
never heard of a an ear infection and an 
adult I have eustachian tube dysfunction 
which basically was caused when I was 
pregnant with my son Max I always tell 
him he wrecked my ear poor Max because I 
flew with the cold and now I my ear is 
never been the same after that so I get 
ear infections to your point it's very 
uncommon except if you have eustachian 
tube dysfunction which I do so it flared 
up again around this client's wedding so 
boo now Bella I know this isn't on the 
subject of dating but is it really 
painful because you know how babies like 
scream and cry is it really really super 
painful it's not painful as much as it 
is annoying and my ears pop a lot and 
sometimes I can feel fluid it's kind of 
like if you've been swimming you can 
feel like float like like water caught 
in your ear so it's not Amazing by any 
means so 
um so I went I go to this Immediate Care 
Clinic around me and they're like you 
know maybe you should see an ENT because 
the last five times you've been in here 
you've had an ear infection I'm like 
well I kind of know what the reason is 
if you read further in the notes so kind 
of funny but thank goodness knock on 
wood it hasn't been painful yet so 
um then I wonder why these babies cry 
like that for so long you know yeah yeah 
yeah because it is really painful they 
have horizontal eustachian tubes right 
so everything gets so caught and it's 
inflamed whereas adults ours develops 
more of a slope so in my mind 
I know I know I play a doctor on TV 
exactly I have two parents with health 
issues and I thought I wanted to be a 
doctor when I was in high school until I 
took AP biology my senior year and I was 
like yeah no I can't do APA I don't 
think I'd be good in medical school and 
thank goodness because now I'm a dating 
coach and I have the best job ever way 
better than me being a doctor so but I 
still do like Health stuff as my 
personal passion and hobby so so let's 
go to reason number nine my dear 
all right reason number nine is baggage 
um what does that mean so I mean I 
always say to 
my dgs community everyone has baggage 
just because you're divorced it doesn't 
mean you have baggage and people who are 
never married don't have baggage 
everyone has baggage 
but when it comes to dating 
if someone has baggage that they haven't 
dealt with and I have a good friend who 
says has he done the work 
that's her thing and by doing the work 
meaning going to therapy maybe going to 
a divorce coach maybe a dating coach the 
work where your baggage is 
dealt with enough for you to be 
an appealing and a good person to date 
and a good partner for someone so 
everybody has baggage baggage isn't the 
bad thing the bad thing is not dealing 
with the baggage or dealing with the 
baggage in an unhealthy way such as 
alcohol or sex addiction or anything 
that's unhealthy a healthy way to deal 
with baggage is to do what we're doing 
you know um listen to these podcasts get 
go to a dating coach go to a therapist 
maybe a divorce coach and deal with your 
stuff do the work so that you can 
present and find a really meaningful 
connection and so the whole point of me 
saying all this is that maybe he didn't 
call you back because he's got some 
baggage it's messing them up and he just 
can't cope 
exactly and you know attachment issues 
can come into play unresolved issues 
from childhood attachments to parents 
right fears right not feeling good 
enough that's all baggage that comes to 
the table and ultimately comes down to 
fear and if somebody is afraid of a 
relationship they're not a good bet for 
you no matter what they can be a great 
human being a great friend maybe a great 
father to his children maybe a great 
boss but in the Romantic realm they're 
not a good bet for a relationship and if 
that person has never been in there 
because never been in coaching seems 
angry seems distant seems flaky to you 
that's probably a person that's carrying 
around to really heavy chunks of stuff 
and to Jackie's point we all have stuff 
right but you gotta have somebody say 
here's the stuff that's in front of you 
and open up the stuff and start to maybe 
lighten the baggage right that's what 
the work does is we get to put some 
things in our backpacks out because 
we've now looked at them resolved them 
and we can put them to the side right 
but we've all got that baggage it's how 
heavy is it and that the weight of the 
baggage is determined by the amount of 
work and some other baggage issues are 
like if a guy is sitting there he might 
be thinking my wife left me for another 
man all women leave I'm not trusting 
someone that could be baggage or you 
know you know um 
uh I've been hurt way too much I'm not 
going to put myself in this position 
again 
so you know it could have nothing to do 
with you maybe the person really liked 
you almost too much yeah and they just 
now can't cope absolutely or maybe this 
person has dysfunctional issues and 
they're looking for somebody who's super 
dramatic and you're just a normal nice 
person right and you're not triggering 
their own attachment issues so that's 
their baggage that's not yours don't 
pick it up and don't say 
this is my fault I did something no it's 
not just say 
he's got something there's nothing I can 
do about it and move on get back online 
take the second date option whatever it 
is but get keep yourself going and don't 
let that get you down and finally reason 
number 10 
I'm gonna quote my one of my favorite 
movies of all time He's Just Not That 
Into You so I don't know if people 
listening to this if if you've seen the 
movie if you haven't please rent it it's 
fantastic it's really funny and 
entertaining but it also sends a very 
good message and actually He's Just Not 
That Into You the movie came from a 
non-fiction book that was written by 
these people and the whole premise of it 
is that look if somebody really likes 
you they will make it happen and if they 
don't let it go because you don't even 
want that anyway you want somebody that 
really wants you and will make it happen 
with you and don't settle for anything 
but that 
100 percent and a little bit more 
background on the guy that wrote He's 
Just Not That Into You Greg Barron he 
was a writer for sex in the city and so 
he would start to field so many 
questions he's like I would sit there at 
work working with mainly women producers 
and listen to all of these travails how 
they would talk to each other and how 
women will be like oh my God it must be 
blah blah blah it must be blah blah blah 
and he was like I didn't tell you as a 
guy that dude is Just Not That Into You 
Move On right even if it's reasons one 
through nine and you don't hear from him 
and you've sent the nudge text and he's 
got baggage and then this and then that 
at a certain point move on if he's not 
that into you here's what I tell our 
clients at Smart dating Academy women 
that are looking for men I want this 
person to like you just a little bit 
more than you like them right it's 
probably advice your grandmother might 
have given you and yet it's so true 
because if you think about like a scale 
if he likes you 51 near 49 nine percent 
what that means is he's going to 
treasure you adore you and move 
mountains to be with you a man that 
wants to be with you and Jackie tell me 
if you agree we'll move those mountains 
to be with you 
absolutely and I actually think did you 
talk to my mom before you just said that 
because it's exactly what she has always 
said to me and it is so true and it 
doesn't mean that you can't be head over 
heels with him also but he needs to like 
you just a little tiny bit more it's 
true 
absolutely so 
ladies and gentlemen I hope you have 
enjoyed this podcast and this is giving 
you a little bit of levity a little bit 
of light a little bit of rationale and 
most importantly what I hope that you 
take with you is if you don't hear from 
somebody send a nudge text and if you 
don't hear from them 
you know what who cares bless them and 
release them and move on to the hundreds 
of people that are going to be 
interested in you because they are out 
there and we Jackie and I are 
psychotically optimistic for you and we 
know that beyond the shadow of any doubt 
love is coming to you keep doing what 
you're doing stay patient stay positive 
stay perseverant through this and get 
the help that you need right check out 
Jackie's Community Check out divorce 
girls smiling right come to Smart dating 
Academy there are resources that weren't 
available 20 and 30 years ago and now 
you don't need to fight this fight alone 
so Jackie thank you so much for being 
here and for sharing your wealth of 
knowledge with us oh it was my pleasure 
thanks so much for having me Bella all 
right smart taters schedule your 
consultation with us and like I said 
join the online dating love lab Sunday 
January 8th on the busiest online dating 
day of the year you cannot go wrong we 
will send you our proprietary book to 
write your online profile we'll tell you 
exactly how to have the right photos how 
to message you'll get more information 
in this three hour session and 
one-on-one ability to ask questions than 
you will at any other time of the year 
so with that being said have a great 
week and we'll see you next week 
