if you figure out your inner 
relationship with someone avoidant what 
do you do I think being honest pretty 
early on about what you need and what 
you want like I want a committed 
relationship I want a monogamous 
relationship I am looking to get married 
or not get married being honest about 
what your goals are for dating right out 
of the beginning because if you get with 
someone who's not really wanting that 
and you're pretty clear about what you 
want from the beginning you're 
more dates after that so being honest 
with yourself about what you want and 
verbalizing that we'll mitigate that a 
little bit but if you find yourself kind 
of in this relationship and this 
person's just not showing up for you and 
is a constant source of pain it may be 
time to consider being honest with this 
person about why you don't think it's a 
good match 
