[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find l 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to this week's episode 
which is going to literally and 
figuratively no pun intended blow your 
mind I have with me repeat guest Dr 
Michelle Roberts who if you've heard any 
of our prior episodes I mean I first 
started with Michelle on our Instagram 
live show where she blew my mind about 
something called complex PTSD which I 
had never heard about our whole instafam 
went wild when I started this podcast 
Michelle came on and talked about truly 
what a narcissist is so this is the 
person you guys that so many smart 
daters have worked with Michelle Roberts 
is a an unbelievable 
psychotherapist um in private practice 
she specializes in women that have had 
complex trauma disorders and let's let's 
say how many of us haven't at the end of 
the day so Michelle welcome to the 
podcast welcome back oh thanks Bella 
it's so great to be back and to see you 
and be part of this family and I know so 
many people now in the Smart dating 
Academy family and it's always great to 
be back kind of talking about you know 
things that can get us to that next 
level of healing yeah well Michelle 
let's Jump Right In because we have so 
much awesome ground to cover for those 
who aren't familiar with you tell us 
kind of about your work in Chicago how 
that led you to getting your doctorate 
and where you are now well sure um I 
guess going in the way way back machine 
I used to be 
crime reporter in 
Chicago and I of course saw lots of very 
sad horrific stories but often found 
myself wondering kind of what kind of 
personality structures were capable of 
certain things and that led me into just 
being ever curious about um low empathy 
disorders right like malignant 
narcissism and psychopathy and so I kind 
of started down that path and over time 
um I segued from journalism to um 
becoming a licensed clinician I got to 
jump in after you w a Pitzer let's not 
let me humble brag on your behalf go 
ahead thanks 
Bella anyway I kind of segued over to 
psychotherapy and um when I was working 
on my dissertation I kind of wanted to 
you know keep looking at that because um 
what I observed in my own life with my 
friends girlfriends you know in the 
early days of 
Instagram um even personal experience I 
was noticing more and more people who 
you know seemed to fit this personality 
structure and people were really getting 
hurt and so I focused my dissertation 
study on women who identify as 
narcissistic abuse survivors and the 
response to that was 
unbelievable more than 2,000 women 
participated in the research the 
findings were really groundbreaking um 
the main one that I'll mention now is 
that 
um of of the entire 
sample um 
84% of narcissistic abuse survivors fit 
the clinical criteria for complex 
PTSD but only 4% had been diagnosed with 
it so this is just a huge gap so imagine 
trying to go and get help and people are 
misdiagnosing you and not understanding 
what the problem is and another thing 
that's difficult is with narcissism 
sometimes it's really hard to explain 
these kind of subtle ambient types of 
abuse it's hard to really explain how 
damaging that can be 
because unlike Trad some forms of 
traditional domestic violence there's no 
you know outward signs of it in fact a 
lot of it just happens in the privacy of 
the 
relationship so um I um kind of embarked 
on that path and became a clinician 
really wanting to focus and find the 
right 
combination of whatever we had out there 
whatever trauma skills or modalities we 
had to really Target um 
women survivors of complex trauma 
brought on by relational abuse whether 
that started in their childhoods and or 
in their adulthoods and that's how we 
get here absolutely and it doesn't have 
to be in the Romantic realm to your 
point it can be childhood it can be 
siblings it could be extended family 
friends who knows 
absolutely and that was another 
interesting finding of their research 
was that most of the women in my study 
um had an elevated um what we call a 
score and I know you've talked about a 
scores on here before but that's the 
adverse childhood experiences scale and 
um women who identify as narcissistic 
abuse survivors have four times the norm 
score for Aces and so you think well 
kind of what what causes the complex 
PTSD is it the Early Childhood abuse is 
it the adult narcissistic abuse so we 
looked at that and we did um a 
regression analysis to pull those things 
apart and what we found out is both you 
could have cptsd with only the childhood 
abuse or you could have it with only the 
narcissistic abuse but when you think 
about for those of us who've kind of had 
both 
experiences you know that's a lot of 
that's a lot of stuff that need to be 
work worked through and it's complicated 
it it often talk therapy often isn't 
enough so that's kind of what brings us 
to this 
conversation yeah and that's and I you 
know 
cptsd is probably what as Michelle said 
as Dr Robert said I should I'm very 
Michelle 
okay as Michelle said so many people you 
you know I know you and I have talked 
about sometimes you know oh a therapist 
said I might be borderline personality 
disorder or I might be X or Y to your 
point there's so many 
misdiagnoses going around and I remember 
you educating me saying wait hold on a 
second sometimes we can be misdiagnosed 
with these things when it's really just 
truly narcissistic abuse that you've got 
cptsd and I thought holy cow this it 
really checks out with the things that 
we were seeing in our practice so as you 
said Michelle talk therapy isn't always 
enough tell us about EMDR and the work 
that you had started doing and how this 
helps yeah well you know what we see in 
cptsd you know and I know that this is 
kind of where your world and my world 
kind of go hand in hand is that we get 
stuck in these not so great dating and 
relational patterns right and we kind of 
find ourselves in this repetition of 
kind of always winding up with 
relationships that are 
unsatisfying um and sometimes even 
abusive right and why do we go we're 
smart women we lead companies why are we 
going around and around and around in 
circles when it comes to relationships 
it's very much a Hallmark of 
cptsd so when it comes to Breaking Free 
from those patterns there's a couple of 
treatments that I really believe can 
help facilitate this process so EMDR 
right right which I've spoken about 
before on this podcast and um 
psychedelic assisted therapy which I'm 
going to talk about later on so EMDR is 
for those of you who don't know it's a 
form of psycho therapy that involves the 
use of bilateral stimulation like eye 
movements or Taps right while you recall 
distressing memories or experiences and 
so the basic idea behind EMDR is that 
traumatic experience can get stuck in 
the brain causing disruptions in the way 
memories are processed and stored so 
EMDR can help us reprocess those 
memories in a way that really drives 
down their emotional intensity and 
negative impact so this approach helps 
us process Those Old Wounds and traumas 
that might be holding us back in our 
relationships um and like core negative 
beliefs like I'm unlovable or I'm broken 
those are the two most common ones I see 
with narcissistic abuse survivors now 
core negative beliefs are things we know 
aren't actually true but they still feel 
true and they run in the background of 
our lives like a hidden computer 
program so by working with the therap 
purpose to reprocess those through EMDR 
we can start to let go of some of that 
emotional baggage that's been keeping us 
stuck and find healthier ways to connect 
with ourselves and 
others beautiful and can you tell us 
what does EMDR stand for yes it's a 
mouthful sorry eye movement 
desensitization and 
reprocessing perfect um people ask me 
that all the time I'm like that was more 
for me I moveed sensitization and 
reprogramming reprocessing reprocessing 
okay learn that one today love that and 
I don't I tend to rarely ever spell that 
out because it's such a mouthful and I 
don't know that it really does a whole 
lot more to describe kind of that 
process it's just kind of a lot of 
jargon but that's what it stands 
for eye movement desensitization and rep 
processing okay and how do you know 
Michelle if there's dear listener out 
there is is listening to this saying 
okay how how would they know they're 
driving their car they're walking their 
dog they might be thinking to themselves 
God this really sounds like me how would 
they potentially know that they should 
go to a practitioner of 
EMDR well often I mean it's it's a 
process most people find their way to me 
because they've been doing talk therapy 
for years even with really good 
therapists who care a lot they've got a 
really warm connection with their 
therapist which is really important when 
you're doing trauma work but they don't 
feel any better I call it living Gray 
you've done all the things but you're 
still not feeling embodied you're still 
not feeling well alive Fully Alive so 
it's it's just this sense that yes I've 
done a lot of work I've talked through 
all of it before but why don't I still 
feel better and that's kind of that old 
program right that's you know what you 
know you know that you're lovable you 
know that um you're not broken but still 
you feel that way in the background and 
so what that means is there's still old 
traumas that are stuck in there that 
haven't been fully processed EMDR is how 
I accessed my own trauma and found it I 
mean after years of therapy found it to 
be really groundbreaking personally and 
how it helped me take a step forward so 
that's that's kind of how you know and 
when people reach out to me I often just 
you know that's one of the first 
questions I ask them is how much therapy 
have you done and how are you feeling 
and what worked and what didn't so often 
um EMDR in particular um attachment 
Focus 
dmdr um it's it can be it can kind of 
break through another barrier to get you 
to a new degree of 
repair love that love that and now talk 
to us about 
psilocybin and mushrooms and everyone 
seems to be talking a little bit about 
this a little bit about that and you are 
a real Pioneer in this so um tell us 
about psychedelic psychedelic assisted 
therapy and where does it fit in to the 
spectum of other therapies and 
modalities yeah yeah well so those of us 
who work in 
trauma um really are embracing the new 
research that is coming out around 
psilocybin or I'm sorry psychedelic 
assisted therapy and what this is is is 
that instead of using psychedelics right 
like psilocybin or magic mushrooms or 
MDMA or LSD to just trip and as a 
recreational you know activity we use 
them for therapy in really controlled 
settings safe settings so um this is 
still 
um 
there's basically there there was the 
beginning of This research kind of at 
the mid point of um this Century you 
know back into the 50s and 60s and 
psychedelics kind of began to gain this 
attention in the western world for their 
therapeutic potential even though right 
they've been used thousands of across 
thousands of years with various cultures 
right um for Spiritual and healing 
rituals but in the 50s and 60s 
researchers started conducting these 
groundbreaking studies on like LSD and 
cocy and exploring how their effects on 
Consciousness mental health and personal 
growth and they really showed promising 
results but then there was this kind of 
count Counter Culture right of 
widespread recreational use at the same 
time and there were some concerns about 
their safety and abuse potential so 
these substances were then classified as 
a schedule one drug in the United States 
in the early' 70s and basically shut 
down most Research into their 
therapeutic 
benefits um so fast forward right to the 
early 21st century and we see this 
Resurgence of interest in psychedelics 
for therapeutic use and researchers that 
um organizations like Maps which is the 
multi-disciplinary association for 
psychedelic studies really important 
player in all of this they've been at 
the Forefront of privately funding um 
clinical trials to investigate the 
efficacy of substances like MDMA and 
psilocybin which is what I'm going to 
talk to you about today um for treating 
conditions like BTSD depression and 
anxiety so in recent years we've had 
this huge shift in public perception and 
policy regarding 
psychedelics um while they're still 
federally illegal SE several cities and 
states have decriminalized or legalized 
psychedelics for personal or therapeutic 
use and recognizing their potential to 
revolutionize a mental health care I 
believe that's what's happening so 
coming back to me um I last fall or a 
year ago this past fall um I received an 
invitation to become a state licensed 
psilocybin 
facilitator so Oregon is the first state 
in the country that kind of pave the way 
for the legal therapeutic use of 
psilocybin in a controlled setting so um 
basically um this allows those of us who 
are licensed in Oregon to administer 
psilocybon or magic mushrooms to people 
who are 21 and older for therapeutic 
purposes and it's just a huge step 
forward in the realm of psychedelic 
assisted therapy and it marks a 
departure right from that recreational 
use only of magic mushrooms and other 
substances so I know that's a lot to say 
but it's kind of important to kind of 
understand that cont because how did we 
get here and how is you know magic 
mushrooms and tripping and all of those 
old associations we have with that how 
is how do we take that and approach that 
in you know really serious therapeutic 
environments right no it's so good to 
know I mean this is so educational for 
me as a child of the 80s you know it was 
Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds and if you 
drop acid you're going to fry your brain 
and you know kind of unregulated use and 
so now to hear that these things that we 
grew up with that are you know danger 
danger danger don't touch that there's 
so much potential medical benefit to 
them is 
amazing so in Oregon it's legalized I 
want to make sure I understand it to use 
by practitioners but not on your own is 
it or is it okay for recreational use no 
no no um it is not currently legal to 
take magic mushrooms recreationally in 
Oregon so this regulatory framework um 
is focused on therapeutic and controlled 
settings so that's just to ensure that 
people receive proper care they get the 
benefit of this substance and you know 
with support um while they're undergoing 
pilicide and therapy so yeah and it's a 
very I 
mean it it is a very highly regulated 
process that we're going through right 
and we're learning kind of as we go and 
what works and what doesn't but it's 
it's steeped in you know following all 
all that we know um from the science up 
to this 
state so it's a huge step forward and 
Oregon is you know defitely the guinea 
pig I love it's exciting to be here yeah 
and really we've just been 
online really for the last six or seven 
months so there's service centers and 
facilitators that are now coming on 
online and um I've seen many clients 
since I got started the end of last 
summer wow and so how does s ayin help 
cptsd or people that have had relational 
trauma how does it help you know and 
maybe you can talk about that and then 
maybe a little compare contrast like if 
if person X comes in how do you decide 
which is which or is there in 
order yeah it's a it's a great question 
so Solin has shown really serious 
promise in kind of helping people shift 
their perspectives and break free from 
negative patterns right which is what 
we're talking about so um a psilocybon 
therapy session can open new insights 
and help us get to the root of what's 
been keeping us stuck in those old 
relationship habits um it's thought to 
work by disrupting rigid thought 
patterns and fostering introspect 
introspection which you know that helps 
us confront and process those 
deep-seated emotions and memories and so 
for women kind of grappling with issues 
and traumas stemming from past 
relationships psilocybin therapy can 
provide a heightened State of 
Consciousness that may facilitate that 
deeper exploration of their emotions and 
experiences um so unlike traditional 
talk therapy that typically rely on that 
verbal communication psilocybin assisted 
therapy can evoke those really profound 
insights and emotions through a 
different pathway and that often leads 
to more profound breakthroughs and 
healing yeah and so it quiets the rigid 
patterns in our brains and really helps 
us to 
explore that trauma that's stuck is that 
is that kind of how it would be okay I 
can give you the so when you take Sol 
asdon it interacts with serotonin 
receptors in your brain especially the 5 
ht2a receptors to get too wonky I love 
it this inter you know I love the 
technicality this interaction leads to 
changes in the brain's neural activity 
and connectivity and it l literally 
changes how you see things feel and 
think so another cool thing that it does 
is it disrupts your brain's default mode 
Network your dmn I'll throw another 
acronym on you and the dmn is like your 
brain's autopilot for self focused 
thoughts and rumination and overthinking 
which we know are part and parcel right 
of 
cptsd so psilocybin turns down the 
volume on that autopilot and that can 
really help break through those rigid 
thought patterns and open the door to 
new ways of looking at things it also 
can boost that neural connectivity 
between brain regions that don't 
typically communicate with each other 
and so this enhanced connectivity can 
those fresh ideas creative thinking and 
just a broader understanding of your 
emotions and 
experiences and that's trying to put 
into words um an experience that most 
will say really defies words right the 
experience of being on you know a a mind 
a mind altering um psilocybin Journey it 
can it can really feel like a Journey to 
the Center of your soul right we're 
talking about you know neurons firing 
and EMB better neuroplasticity and all 
of that but what it really comes down to 
is this incredibly sacred Human 
Experience that helps us explore you 
know the nature of reality our place in 
the universe the interconnectedness of 
all things right so it can really be a 
deep profoundly moving life-changing 
experience and that's even just with one 
one dose and how do you how does one 
ingest it or how is it 
administered yeah here in Oregon of 
course there are rules about how much 
you can take and but in general if I'm 
working with a client who's coming to me 
and they want to really have you know a 
profound shift after we've done all the 
proper screening and um I usually would 
start out you know at a dose between 20 
and 25 which is considered a heroic dose 
I'm just for comparison's sake many of 
the clinical trials um have been dosed 
at 25 milligram so these are meant to be 
you know really big um 
experiences and then a person you know 
will be it will be at the the service 
center which are comfy you know spaces 
for doing this um rules require me to be 
right there with the person at all times 
I'm there to help facilitate if if 
anything is difficult for them but 
really they just the goal is to kind of 
turn inward and have your 
experience and I always get asked well 
what's it going to be like how's it 
going to feel what's going to come up 
for me I'm setting my intention for this 
does that mean that's what's going to 
happen and 
no way predict um sometimes people have 
incredibly beautiful warm connected you 
know experiences where it just feels 
like a wash of you know four to five 
hours of just love and other people have 
really difficult painful experiences 
where there's somatically feeling right 
um the pain from traumas that they've 
been through often for the first time 
it's like almost an immediate access to 
it and that can be really difficult um a 
lot of Journeys have a beautiful 
combination of both I worked with one 
woman once 
who had a very very very painful 
childhood you know narcissistic abuse in 
her adulthood and she went back to the 
womb and she felt cold and small and she 
heard a voice that said you were born 
wanting to die because you knew you 
weren't wanted talk about the computer 
program running in the background right 
oh my gosh and so the psilocybin Journey 
right through visuals and 
Sensations um showed her and made her 
feel that pain of not being wanted and 
then introduced her into a warmth color 
splashed Journey full of all of the 
memories of the time that she time she 
was wanted right and so she literally 
felt her nervous Shi system shifting 
more towards this warm feeling of being 
invited and wanted and just think if you 
have a program running in the background 
that you're not even fully aware of but 
it's the one of not being wanted just 
think how you're going to show up for 
your dates for your friendships right 
versus this one of being invited and 
wanted and open and loved and that's how 
she started showing up after that and it 
was really beautiful to watch 
wow and does it take multiple sessions 
or is it one or just it's person 
specific I think it's person specific 
but here's the thing I would never say 
oh you need to come back again 
because you need to decide whether this 
is what you want to do so a big part of 
the selection process is self- selection 
is this something you want to do I have 
many clients who have had one one really 
profound 
journey and have are working to 
integrate that you can integrate one 
Journey for the rest of your life and I 
have other clients who want to come back 
and do the next level so we started by 
saying you never know kind of what 
you're going to get that's true but what 
I will say and I've not even had an 
exception to this in my work so far is 
that this medicine is see to be so 
mystically tailored to each one of us as 
an individual that we always get no 
matter how warm or painful the exact 
Journey we need at that 
time wow that just gave me goosebumps 
that's amazing so whatever it does it 
titrates itself to you your physiology 
your unique trauma and whether it's Joy 
or pain or some combination of both it's 
what you need 
yep yes so it's been really really 
humbling right as someone who has sat in 
the seat with people doing the hard work 
for years and years it's very humbling 
to see and experience some of these 
profound shifts we can get in you know a 
much shorter period of time with Sila 
cybin now it's not for everyone and it's 
not like a a Bullet Silver bullet right 
to all your pain once you have that 
Journey it's it's the hard work of 
integrating it into your life so what 
you experience then becomes your new 
pattern right so we have to keep going 
with whatever it is that we're doing um 
in in the service of our own growth and 
connection so integration work is I 
would argue and I mean so would almost 
anyone working in this space that I know 
what argue you that integration of the 
experience is probably the most 
important part and when you say 
integration tell me what that means 
maybe an example yeah integration would 
be um taking whatever came up in your 
journey and applying it to your daily 
life so that you have new habits right 
we know another experience of 
psychedelics is um a reduction in the 
desire to drink and 
smoke right wow so you have this window 
of 
neuroplasticity that you need to work 
with so you could enjoy that that period 
of time without wanting to you know 
drink and smoke or you could do the 
other things to support that behavior 
into being kind of a lifelong decision 
right there's it's not just enough to 
kind of sit by and wait and see what 
happens you then have to you've got some 
momentum and it's your job to keep that 
momentum 
going and so in 
general what have you seen what kinds of 
you know maybe you can give us an 
example of somebody that has gone 
through this in your practice and I 
realize it's so new and your practice is 
new but is there is there any story you 
can tell us about how you know working 
with the magic mushrooms and then doing 
this integration work how is this 
affecting women's ability to seek out 
and be in a happy healthy 
relationship yeah that it's a great idea 
I had one 
client I always make a joke CU when 
you're on psilocybon mushrooms you know 
there's all sorts of time warpy things 
that are happening so at some point you 
know I have to help a client go to the 
bathroom and I always make a joke I'm 
like this bathroom has a Time War 
features so don't get scared if you feel 
like you've been in there too long you 
probably haven't been in there very long 
at all and I started saying that after I 
had a client who went to the bathroom 
and she was only in there for a couple 
minutes 
and finally you know she opened the door 
and she oh my God I thought I was never 
going to get out of there you said and 
then I realized I could just open the 
door and walk through 
right and so I mean it's a metaphor but 
for her it was I I feel like I'm stuck 
in things and so often we get Frozen in 
place right 
by and so for her this sensation of 
being able to just wait I can just walk 
through that door we become separated 
from that really basic but profound idea 
and and you know I don't encourage a lot 
of huge life changes like in the month 
after you've had a siloc cybin journey 
right you want to take things slow but 
ultimately she left a very very unhappy 
relationship and is moving forward so 
for her her journey even though the 
message came to her in this kind of 
silly way about the bathroom door right 
was you can just walk through the 
door I love that I love that so much 
like you're not stuck in the bathroom or 
with this bad dude right you have agency 
to open the bathroom door and to open 
the door to leave 
him yeah wow wow because anyone who's 
had complex trauma really probably can 
relate with the dissociative symptoms of 
that disorder right it's the sense of 
just being stuck in time stuck right and 
Frozen so um that's that's just one 
kind of example of an 
anecdote of one person I've worked 
with and if someone's thinking about 
this and you know they're like God you 
know I listen to a lot of what Bella 
says and I think I don't have a good 
picker right how do you think this could 
help them to sort out their love life 
maybe 
through realizing they have age or tell 
us about that because I'm sure a lot of 
people are like huh this sounds really 
good right about now like I'd like to 
get un stock I mean I'm listening to 
this going I don't have cptsd but wow 
this sounds kind of good so I'm guessing 
it's number one not for everybody like 
you said not a silver bullet no it's not 
a Sil Silver Bullet um and it's not for 
everybody you know people who have um 
been who have bipolar disorder or schiz 
you know a lot of family history of 
schizophrenia we want to be really 
careful right um and and there's a few 
there's a few other you 
know things that we we screen for um but 
for a lot of people it can really 
facilitate this personal growth and you 
know for anyone who's you know got a 
broken picker right there's there's 
something about that that is still kind 
of it's sending the message that I'm 
broken right it's the same way of saying 
I'm broken right is that script in the 
background yeah um and so you know just 
like with some of the examples I've 
already talked about kind of a profound 
shift in those core negative beliefs 
that we have running kind of behind the 
scenes I mean it can really it can 
really change that what would it be like 
to be able to go into a dating situation 
not afraid that I was going to make a 
mistake again but having confidence that 
even if I did I would know how to kind 
of exit it sooner and I would be able to 
kind of go on to the next one without so 
much say shame and self-recrimination 
about it absolutely and and about broken 
pick Pickers or fixing your Pickers for 
those of you you who have followed our 
work I always P I always say 
afterwards to some extent if your picker 
isn't broken it's kind of a miracle 
because we can't pick what happens to us 
we can't pick the messaging even from 
society we can't pick some evolutionary 
things right so if that's the case 
remember what do I always tell you guys 
it's not your fault no matter what and 
if it is the good news is there's so 
much help around there that didn't exist 
even 10 or 20 or 30 years ago so sit in 
that and just say wow you know what 
that's cool that I'm not broken and if I 
don't know how to do this it's not my 
fault because I was never taught how to 
do it it's like just because you're not 
you know a pro Javelin thrower well I 
was never taught how to do it nobody's 
going to judge you for that so this is 
sort of the same thing we were never 
taught how to do relationships right we 
are witness to relationships or we've 
had relationships foed on us that we 
didn't pick from the time we were born 
right so you know nobody sat any of us 
down and said hey this is how one gets 
into great 
relationships with friends with family 
members with romantic relationships so 
so we're all in this together you guys 
exactly 
exactly um is there anything Michelle 
that I didn't ask you that I 
should well I think um one of the things 
that you asked me is that I'm not sure I 
fully answered and that was you know how 
do I know if psilocybin is right for me 
or if I should be doing some other work 
first and I think that 
I mean and I'm talking generally right 
there could be exceptions in specific 
cases but 
generally 
um a a solusyon journey can facilitate a 
whole opening in a in for therapy that 
you might not have been able to access 
before so I had one client who um and 
this isn't uncommon but who in her cocy 
Journey remembered some pretty 
significant trauma that she had been um 
not able to kind of bring up or confront 
in 
Psychotherapy and with that kind of at 
the Forefront then she was able to work 
with that so basically her therapy Jour 
Journey really kind of started at the 
psilocybin wow point of 
psilocybin um in other ways it was like 
I've already kind of talked about a 
little bit is that folks who've already 
done a lot of work and kind of feel 
stuck can also benefit moving forward um 
I love to work with clients who come to 
me for soloc cybin if I'm feeling like 
they're really kind of in a state of 
Crisis or have a lot of anxiety I'm 
probably going to recommend that um in 
order to work with me right they could 
always go and choose a different 
facilitator but I really like to be able 
to have a few sessions to at least teach 
them some grounding techniques and some 
other things that might be helpful for 
them if their Journey becomes really 
painful or if they get stuck in kind of 
an anxiety a state of anxiety when 
they're doing their Journey so it's just 
kind of you know there's different ways 
to look at it but I have I really found 
it to be profoundly helpful in kind of 
breaking through some of those barriers 
where we get stuck in our selfworth work 
and worth I guess I love that and this 
brings me maybe I haven't fully 
understood so if someone how does one 
know or how does a facilitator or a 
therapist assess okay you're stuck in 
talk therapy let's say you're living in 
the gray like you said how do you know 
is does one come first like do if you 
take said person with cptsd is do you 
have like a first line of thing like do 
you say Okay first we're g to try EMDR 
for x amount of sessions or it does it 
not work like that where it just it's 
person specific trauma specific you may 
say you're going straight to soloc ibin 
you know Jane do and for John do he 
might go to EMDR first so yeah well it's 
it's interesting and here's something 
that's just a an aside but an important 
one I think right here and that's that 
my licensure as a therapist is 
completely separate from my lure as a 
psilocybin oh licensed um facilitator so 
they're separate and you know there's 
there's 
some you know good um so I keep those 
two things you know pretty pretty 
separate so usually people who are 
coming to me at least in this point 
until I think there's more cohesion you 
know between these 
licenses um people who are coming to me 
for COC cybin are coming to me for S 
ayin got it okay and vice versa now I 
might have a client who I think would 
who's been a long time in my practice 
who I think would be great I would 
recommend that um I wouldn't recommend 
that but if they inquire I would you 
know I would kind of support them in 
that Journey either working with me or 
with another 
facilitator um vice versa if someone 
comes to me um for COC cybin I might but 
I feel like I wouldn't you know based on 
the things that I'm hearing they might 
not be ready I might give them some 
advice you know maybe you know you want 
to work on some meditation and some 
grounding techniques before you start 
this and you're not right for me right 
now but then they could choose to go to 
another facilitator so there's some 
choppiness right in this regulatory 
framework still that we're working 
through but I guess that's the best way 
I could answer that question right now 
no that's so great to know because I 
didn't realize that so I thought it was 
like oh and I'm doing this and I'm doing 
that but I understand it's like it's 
like blue hat yellow hat now you're 
ultimately the Hat wearer so you can 
talk to somebody and 
say I think you should be with me in my 
yellow hat or me in my blue hat or you 
can do both hats but you ultimately 
partner with the client to make those 
assessments exactly and i' I've had um 
people come for siloc cybin who we've 
had this discussion and instead of 
treating them with that we've been doing 
EMDR right and so that's a different hat 
and that's been going great great right 
and they've not they've not um wanted to 
do soloc since then because they're 
getting traction and I'm not saying one 
is better than the other in fact I think 
they kind of work beautifully together 
together right like all of it talk EMDR 
psilocybin like I can only imagine as 
your practice as you are in practice 
longer and longer you'll probably start 
to see like okay like yeah maybe we're 
going to going to shift to here but then 
we're going to go back here because you 
start to understand how these things all 
work together which I'm guessing they 
will and isn't that exciting yeah and 
like we're at the very beginning of this 
right so what's happening here in Oregon 
you know we are we're really trying to 
create this system that really works for 
people and you know also trying to you 
know stay true to you know our other 
licenses so they're separate but you 
know I I hope for a time you know 
someday when there's just much more kind 
of 
overlap and there is overlap just 
because I am who I am right and other 
therapists who are also licensed cyber 
cybin practitioners um we are who we are 
we bring these skills in no matter what 
right but there's we have to just be 
careful of what we're wearing and whenn 
yeah no that's amazing and I'm sure it 
will only evolve to get better and 
better I hope so yes yeah Michelle 
you're the best thank you so much for 
enlightening me and our audience with 
this I think this shows so much promise 
and um I'm honored and grateful for your 
time on the show today yeah thanks so 
much for having me I always love coming 
on and seeing you and getting to talk 
about all of these exciting things we 
can do to heal ourselves and heal 
ourselves and ultimately Michelle and I 
are in the same quadrant of we want to 
help you to love yourself and to be able 
to have the kinds of relationships that 
best serve you in your life and the 
beauty is that we are both and I'm going 
to put you under this fail to Michelle 
we're both tremendously psychotically 
optimistic about about everybody's 
abilities to get to a better place right 
and one foot in front of the other so um 
with great hope and great love I bid you 
farewell and again thank you to Michelle 
and if this Sparks in you the desire to 
inquire 
about how Michelle can help you Michelle 
where can they what's your website oh 
www.del roberts.com 
perfect and it's Michelle with two L's 
and roberts.com 
and if you're ready for a dating 
consultation go to Smart dating 
academy.com guys Love Is in the Air it's 
springtime the birds and the bees are 
out out the weather's getting better so 
there's nothing like summer love so 
until next week I B you farewell and 
have a beautiful week bye thank 
you 
