negative reappraisal and this is the 
best and most proven way to get over 
your grief about somebody what negative 
reappraisal is guys is it's basically 
putting logic to this what beige flags 
are tick-tockers would say beige flags 
were flags that somebody was really 
beige boring vanilla as beige flag 
started to get talked about more and 
more what we found is that the 
definition of the beige flag now means 
it's kind of a fun fact or something 
quirky about you or your partner a nudge 
text what is that so it's a text which 
basically not just the person into an 
action if someone is interested they'll 
respond quickly going oh my gosh I 
thought they didn't have any fun but 
they did and I like them so let's do 
this a lot of times the nudge Works does 
it always work no but good energy out 
there wish them well and look for people 
that are into you 
