[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love I am so excited 
about today's episode and we're going to 
be talking about something that has come 
up for so many people my clients it's 
come up in my own personal life with 
people in my friend's personal lives and 
we're going to talk about toxic 
friendships are you in one and why that 
can have a deadly effect on your life 
and your dating life and then we're 
going to talk about the Red Zone what is 
the red zone Elizabeth welcome to the 
show my friend Dr E 
thanks so much for having me it's always 
good to be with you oh my gosh well you 
are the opposite of a toxic friend you 
are what I would call an elevator person 
elevator friend out of your Ted Talk 
which was so amazing so make sure that 
everyone who's listening has watched it 
at least 10 times well I will put a link 
to my TED Talks it's called the secret 
to finding lasting love but it's all 
about defining who your elevator people 
are so we'll have a TED Talk note in 
there about the kind of friends you 
should have but Elizabeth tell us just 
kind of tell us a little bit about toxic 
friendships and and let's hop right into 
it 
yeah so toxic friendships are very 
one-sided they are take take take take 
and you know you're in a toxic 
relationship if you feel worse about 
yourself when you're with that person or 
even thinking about being with that 
person when you dread when they text 
when they're asking you to do things 
over and over and over again and they 
again they're they're taking they're 
taking they're taking but they are not 
reciprocating 
and why do we stay in relationships like 
that 
well 
um sorry it's starting to Absolute poor 
here so if you hear that mother nature 
why do we stay in that type of 
relationship well a couple of things one 
um 
generalization for women we want to be 
nice right 
yeah yeah exactly so we want to we want 
to be helpful and and a lot of times in 
a toxic relationship it's um oh no no 
I'm gonna help you out and then they say 
they're going to do something and then 
they don't and they don't so we want to 
give them the benefit of the doubt well 
they said they were going to they 
probably will but in a psychological 
perspective if I was going to put like 
my shrink hat on there's something 
called variable reinforcement and 
variable reinforcement means you are 
reinforced you get you know a thumbs up 
something positive at variable 
time frames 
so I'll give an example a slot machine 
is a variable reinforcement right people 
put their money and they hit the button 
and they never know if they're going to 
win or lose and they lose and they lose 
and they lose and they lose and suddenly 
they win and it's such a hit of dopamine 
in their brain it feels so good and then 
they go back to losing and losing losing 
but there's no Rhyme or Reason to it 
it's not like every five times then you 
win or every five minutes and you win 
it's variable reinforcement and in 
Psychology variable reinforcement is 
actually the best way to get someone to 
continue to doing what they're doing so 
what does that have to do with toxic 
relationships in toxic relationships 
usually they'll be taking and taking but 
then they'll maybe give once right 
they'll be it'll be uncomfortable with 
them and then they'll give you a 
compliment it feels so good and you get 
that dopamine rush in your head that you 
just want to keep at that relationship 
to get it again and again 
wow oh I can think of so many people I 
know that have talked about being in 
relationships like that and you're right 
I mean one of the greatest Hallmarks is 
if you feel worse about yourself I think 
you said right and tell us about some 
other signs that you're in a toxic 
relationship 
she no longer trusts that person right 
they say they're going to do something 
and they don't actually do that you 
question start to question their 
intentions you know 
it's that internal barometer your 
intuition your gut feeling is telling 
you um something's not right here or 
other people are telling you something's 
not right maybe you're hearing stories 
about this person of what they're saying 
about other people or saying about you 
or just unkind things that they're doing 
um you make excuses for them when people 
say oh no stay away from them you make 
excuses you justify their behaviors you 
tend to feel used you tend to feel like 
you are in the Red Zone when you are 
with them or feel even you know just 
thinking about being with them 
um and then they criticize you they 
blame you they they put you down they 
may be controlling you can't you know 
being mad at you for hanging out with 
other friends for example all of these 
are signs of a toxic relationship 
wow and it's so interesting I think 
toxic relationships can begin you know 
and they're not only for women I think a 
lot of times women get you know oh women 
bring drama women are toxic women can't 
have real friendships with each other 
but I have a son and I have a daughter 
and I've seen toxic friendships happen 
at the kid level uh with both genders do 
you think that's true absolutely 
absolutely yup yup yup and you're right 
it does get attributed more to drama but 
I mean we're talking about friendships I 
mean in a romantic relationships we 
definitely can see a lot of toxicity 
um coming from uh you know a man but it 
it it's really it's not gender specific 
at all these are people who and if you 
think about someone who is the um that 
the toxic part of a toxic relationship 
you know a lot of times they are hurt a 
lot of times they have very low 
self-confidence and self-worth a lot of 
times they haven't had the modeling of 
what a healthy relationship is so they 
don't even know how to have a healthy 
relationship that doesn't excuse their 
behavior doesn't mean you should stay in 
this relationship because they have 
never had a good relationship but it 
does help us better understand and if we 
can understand why someone's doing 
something instead of blaming ourselves 
personalizing it oh it's because I'm bad 
there's something wrong with me if we 
can understand it empathize where 
they're coming from then we can really 
take steps to move forward and whether 
that's moving forward to help Salvage 
that relationship or moving forward to 
say you know what 
um I care about you and this is just not 
a good relationship for me exactly 
exactly and here's my friend Dr 
Elizabeth Lombardo and you should make 
an appointment to go see her stat 
because you've got some mental health 
stuff going on right you can support 
people in that way and say I think you 
do I think it would be helpful for you 
if you talk to a therapist about this 
absolutely it's because what happens is 
a lot of times if you are the toxic 
person in the relationship we've already 
established you probably you know have a 
lot going on emotionally and 
psychologically and you haven't learned 
those skills and learning the skills of 
how to have a healthy relationship are 
just skills right and if you haven't 
learned them there's nothing wrong with 
you you just need to learn the skills 
it's kind of like if you don't know I 
don't know if someone doesn't know how 
to read you don't say what's wrong with 
you you say hey let's teach you how to 
read we'll give you that skill and then 
you'll move on 
um and then someone who's been in in a 
toxic relationship what tends to happen 
is they start to internalize the 
messages they either overtly hear you're 
no good you're no good without me or 
that are are subtly communicated and 
just like a song on the radio you ever 
heard a song on the radio and you didn't 
like it first time you heard it you keep 
in it again and again and you really 
don't like it and then you start singing 
it yourself because you've internalized 
it that's what happens a lot from the 
messages from a toxic relationship so 
it's really important if you are in one 
if you have been one to really address 
your own psychological well-being and if 
that's with a therapist or a coach it's 
absolutely vital that you that you take 
care of what's going on up in your mind 
so that you move on because if you don't 
we know you know just from I'm sure 
people's experiences you're more likely 
to be in a toxic relationship again and 
again and again and again you just want 
to react reenact the trauma of it and 
it's comfortable if you want to it's 
that it's just so familiar it's it's 
just so habitual how people treat you 
you just get used to that and again if 
you've been in a toxic relationship a 
lot of times people think on a deeper 
level they think well I deserve this 
this is the best that I can get I would 
rather be with someone and be unhappy 
than be alone and be lonely and what I 
would say is you can't really attract 
more positive relationships in your life 
if you're at this really low vibration 
if you're in that toxic relationship 
there's only so much energy out there so 
it's vital not only that you get out but 
you also address your own mental 
well-being so that you are establishing 
boundaries so that you are taking care 
of yourself so that you are attracting 
someone in your in into your life as a 
friend or a partner or whatever 
um who who is really what you want in 
your life as opposed to what you're 
willing to settle for 
yeah and I and I hear you and if your 
vibrations and your vibrational state is 
low and you really think I'm not good 
enough or this is the best friendship 
I've ever had or I ever could have 
everybody leaves me right and when we're 
messaging ourselves from this then we 
become more apt to continue to tolerate 
this so at a certain point when you get 
yourself into therapy or coaching and 
work on these issues that you may have 
from childhood stuff or early mean girl 
stuff or whatever it was and address 
that more fundamentally that you are 
good enough and that you are a person 
that people want to be around and you 
elevate your own vibrational level 
you'll start to bring in those people so 
I love what you're saying like and you 
know question people ask me often is 
okay you know on the Smart dating side 
we help people stay you know people that 
have chronically been with red flaggy 
people or narcissistic people to not 
date them anymore right that's the 
intervention that we do like no no no 
okay there you go again 
no no no no let's Veer back over into 
safe harbors when as a practicing 
therapist and you do such amazing work 
and you're a prolific author do people 
come to you and say I am toxic 
I have issues like having good 
relationships is it me maybe I'm the 
toxic one because people ask me that all 
the time we don't tend to get the toxic 
people into Smart dating Academy we tend 
to get the ones that have been on the 
receiving end of that that are like left 
reeling so my question for them is why 
are you accepting this Behavior but do 
you as a therapist get the people that 
are like I suck 
well it's interesting because even 
people who are creating the toxicity in 
a relationship tend to feel like a 
victim 
so it's very much I'm in these 
relationships it's it's their fault or 
or 
um you know there's something wrong with 
me that that I keep getting into these 
relationships but it's they don't really 
take accountability like oh it's because 
I you know keep keep taking and taking 
it's because I put the other person down 
oh maybe that's why our relationship 
hasn't been working very rarely just the 
person who's who's kind of creating the 
toxicity they usually don't have that 
self-awareness right they don't take the 
time to say huh maybe the common 
denominator in all of these messes is me 
right no no no no it's very much blaming 
you know all gender you know men women 
whatever are untrustable I'm I'm 
unlovable I'm never going to find 
someone and here's the thing you know we 
get these messages and and by the way I 
I practice the type of psychology and 
coaching that's very here and now and 
future oriented I know a lot of 
strengths spend a whole lot of time in 
childhood I don't do that having said 
that in our first eight years of life 
we're basically operating on a 
subconscious level what does that mean 
it means we absorb things without even 
realizing it so our subconscious is like 
a sponge if you think it's about a 
sponge you put it in water what does it 
do 
absorbs water right wring it out put it 
in milk what does it do 
right it doesn't say I don't do dairy it 
just absorbs the milk so our 
subconscious is very much like that and 
so especially you know maybe there were 
messages when we were younger or if we 
keep hearing these messages over and 
over again we start to internalize them 
and and start to believe them on a 
deeper level not rationally rationally I 
know I'm worthy of love but deep down I 
do not feel it and that's where you 
really need to work with someone who can 
help the way I phrase it is rewire your 
brain not just affirmations I believe in 
myself but really changing how your mind 
processes information and these changes 
when you do it correctly then are 
sustainable I.E you always think this 
new way 
so amazing and I'm curious do you feel 
that people that create a lot of 
toxicity in their friendships will also 
do the same in their romantic 
relationships yes because here's the 
thing 
this the the drama which is kind of what 
we can call the toxicity relationship 
that drama is 
um I I used it before it's that dopamine 
hit right stress I mean if you say to 
someone do you want more stress people 
like no way but people get very used to 
the stress hormones circulating through 
their brains and their bodies and that 
is their norm and not having that can be 
very uncomfortable I'm going to give an 
unrelated example but a lot of times 
when people start meditating they'll be 
like oh my gosh it is so exceptionally 
uncomfortable for me to sit in silence 
for five minutes because they're so used 
to having whether it's you know 
stimulation from from a you know social 
media or their phone or you know 
whatever they're so used to all this 
going on they're so used to having 
stress in their life that just having 
nothingness or opening up to nothingness 
is really uncomfortable 
I I don't like to use the word addicted 
but I would say people get very used to 
having all of the stress in their bodies 
and in their minds and so that becomes 
their Norm 
um so yes definitely the carryover goes 
into 
um into you know dating relationships it 
can go into family I mean I was working 
with this um person once who came to me 
and as I'm as I'm talking to him he had 
disowned his mother his his siblings his 
his ex-wife like all of these people in 
his life and it was everyone else's 
fault 
um so yeah 
it's a consistent pattern it's a 
consistent pattern got it and you know a 
couple of other questions on toxic 
friendships this is so awesome you say 
about toxic friendships that we should 
check our own internal dialogue before 
declaring a relationship toxic what do 
you mean by that check our internal 
dialogue well because it's not events 
it's not what someone says or does that 
makes it toxic it's it's our 
interpretation of it and I have worked 
with many clients who 
um and and a lot of times it's couples 
but it could also be friendships where 
they view something in one way 
but when they're when we're stressed out 
when we're overwhelmed we tend to view 
things in a more negative way 
that's being in the Resident right we're 
having high levels of stress we negative 
filter we focus on what's wrong we 
personalize other people's actions and 
so we may be misinterpreting what the 
other person is doing what their 
intentions are and so then we put a you 
know we put a oh that they're toxic 
individual or I mean the word narcissist 
which you know people love to use 
they're not as many narcissists like 
true narcissistic personality disorder 
they're not as many narcissists out 
there as as we seem to give credit for 
do people have narcissistic Tendencies 
of course frankly we all do sometimes we 
all do right so but but when we focus 
only on that and you know what you focus 
on grows so if you focus on something 
that they did wrong and then you you all 
you can think about is what they did 
wrong and how they made you feel 
horrible and then it's their fault that 
I feel horrible about myself as to 
saying supposed to saying okay so he was 
there she was late you know to 
um respond to me I could view that as 
talks if she doesn't care about me I'm 
going through a tough time and what's 
wrong with her or I could realize wow 
I'm going through a tough time I know 
she's got a lot going on you know on her 
plate too let me give her the benefit of 
the doubt so so instead of just jumping 
into it's their fault they're toxic take 
a step back and say how if you could 
stick a microphone in your brain what 
are you saying to yourself about this 
person and then how accurate and how 
helpful is that amen one of my key 
things and it's hard to do this to say 
wait a second is this a story I'm 
telling myself or what is the story I'm 
telling myself right now about the fact 
that he was 30 minutes late about the 
fact that she didn't respond to my text 
for two weeks right and so the story I'm 
telling myself usually comes down to I'm 
not important I'm not good enough like 
if you go down down down right and we 
just yep I'm not worthy of Love yep and 
and so if you can check yourself with is 
this the story I'm telling myself could 
there be another interpretation for what 
just happened silky and it's also about 
our rules we all have rules about how 
people should act right and and we often 
aren't aware of those rules until 
they've been broken so if your rule is 
if someone texts you I have a great I 
have a great example my husband had a 
friend who his rule was if he called in 
and didn't leave a message that you 
should call him back 
because you'll you'd see on the cell 
phone missed call 
and and he got really upset with my 
husband for not calling back my 
husband's like this is where my husband 
was working my husband's like uh I have 
like a gazillion messages if you didn't 
leave a message I just think you butt 
dialed so my husband's rule was uh you 
know you don't have to call back if 
someone doesn't leave a message so they 
both had their own rules my husband you 
know wasn't really faced by it but this 
other guy was really upset by it and 
like didn't touch my asthma for a couple 
couple months I was just like what like 
what is going on but it was because of 
this broken rule so ask yourself if 
you're shooting on this person they 
should do this they should do that that 
is a rule that's broken and you want to 
ask yourself sometimes the rules can be 
really healthy and helpful and sometimes 
they're just things that we've kind of 
come up with over the course of Our 
Lives that we aren't even aware of so 
asking yourself is this a rule is it 
healthy and helpful and if it is then 
you want to clearly communicate to the 
other person here's the deal when I call 
you and don't leave you a message I just 
want you to know what I'm hoping that 
you're gonna do is that you're going to 
call me back and they may say well just 
text me then or absolutely now that I 
know I can do that I mean you can have 
that conversation being assertive is key 
when it comes to good relationships 
well and that brings me to my next 
question what are some what are some 
steps that you can take if you've done 
all the things you've checked your 
internal dialogue and you feel that this 
is indeed a toxic relationship do you 
break up with this person do you just 
slow fade on them like what are the 
right steps to do yeah so I'd say the 
first thing is to take responsibility 
even if you're in a toxic relationship 
you have you're in it and what do I mean 
by that we teach people how to treat us 
if we let people walk all over us 
they're going to learn oh this is okay 
and they're going to keep doing it and 
yet the person who's being walked all 
over you know in their mind is just you 
know getting what I would say more and 
more Red Zone you're more and more upset 
about it but they've never taken 
responsibility for for saying hey this 
isn't okay so first and foremost realize 
take responsibility that doesn't mean 
it's all your fault it doesn't mean you 
deserve this it doesn't mean any of this 
it does mean that one you teach people 
how to how to treat you and two 
you know in a relationship it takes two 
to tango I.E if you decide to get better 
the relationship might get better if you 
decide to take a step away that's your 
choice too but be empowered as opposed 
to the victim of this other person 
I love that use your voice say what you 
need say what you need and do the thing 
well you've referred to this a couple of 
times let's what is the red zone what is 
this Red Zone you can talk about to know 
what is the red zone and how does it 
affect us is it something we should stay 
away from so this it's a psychological 
Red Zone not the football Red Zone um 
okay and the psychological red zone is 
when we're high levels of stress or what 
in Psychology we call distress distress 
is the negative aspect of stress so it 
could be feelings like anger frustration 
anxiety fear overwhelm guilt shame 
hopelessness helplessness worthlessness 
all goes in the distress pile and 
distress exists on a Continuum from zero 
none at all to 10 out of 10 the most 
distressed you've ever been so for 
example if you're angry at a 10 out of 
10 you might yelling you might have the 
proverbial steam coming out of your ears 
that kind of thing and the Red Zone 
happens when we're at a seven out of ten 
or higher a seven out of 10 or higher 
that's when we're in the red zone and 
not only does that involve more intense 
emotions but they're actually some 
biological changes that occur in our 
brain in terms of which part of our 
brain we are using in the red zone as 
opposed to in what I call the green zone 
a zero one two three 
and what happens when we flip into the 
red zone of the brain yeah so let's do a 
quick pop quiz if we could have you ever 
said or done something you later 
regretted 
never of course I have what was it no 
I'm just kidding I'm kidding don't tell 
me um have you ever procrastinated or 
avoided an important project 
uh yeah yeah like um in the last five 
minutes absolutely I'm like today 
have you ever 
um been so overwhelmed that you can't 
focus or you can't sleep 
yes so all of those are signs that 
you're in the Red Zone when we're in the 
Red Zone our mind focuses on the problem 
and we get really stuck in it and 
there's a biological reason for this so 
in the green zone those low levels of 
distress we're using more of our frontal 
lobe right that beautiful structure that 
differentiates us from other animals it 
allows us to engage in executive 
functioning problem solving perspective 
taking when we're in the green zone we 
can see all different perspectives this 
is where confidence happens right I'm 
not perfect but I believe in myself this 
is where love happens right ah that 
person's doing something that's annoying 
it's okay it's just who they are we can 
see all perspectives 
as we go up on this distress scale our 
Focus Narrows so that when you get into 
the Red Zone when I get into Red Zone 
when anyone gets into the Red Zone 
that's seven then eat that nine that ten 
instead of seeing the positives and 
negatives we're focusing almost 
exclusively on the negatives it's like 
called you called negative filtering 
we're focusing on what's wrong and 
there's a biological basis for this 
because instead of that beautiful 
frontal lobe that rational thinking our 
limbic system emotional reasoning fight 
or flight basically hijacks our rational 
thinking so we think differently when 
we're in the red zone as opposed to when 
we're out of the red zone 
okay so limbic system would mean you get 
into fight or flight at that point 
exactly so think about it in in 
prehistoric times if arcade ancestors 
heard a wrestling in the bush and I 
thought it's probably nothing 
they probably wouldn't live another 
moment right they took care of the 
animal or they got rid of it then they 
got out of the red zone so in the Red 
Zone they're focused on the problem 
that's all they can say 
they took care of it they got it out of 
the red zone 
so our sources of stress are usually not 
short-term like that they're more 
long-term right Health hello pandemic 
what's happening in the world financial 
issues work issues all these are very 
chronic and so a lot of people are 
basically living in the red zone and 
they're not thinking 100 rationally and 
they aren't acting 100 rationally but 
they aren't even aware of that 
and how does one become aware of it and 
if you say yeah you know I kind of live 
at a seven eight and I need to I'd like 
to get out of red and proceed back to 
green 
right right pink 
so so the first thing is yeah to to 
really be aware of it and and so one way 
to do that is ask yourself on a scale 
from zero to ten where am I say in the 
past week 
and I will say and giving Keynotes 
sometimes wait for it in person now 
spend 
um I asked people to share of course A 
lot of times where where are you and 
usually at least 50 of the audience in 
the past week and they've been in the 
Red Zone average 
so just asking yourself that question 
having I often encourage my clients to 
have a pop-up on their phone every hour 
or two where are you what's your number 
yeah you know whatever cue you need to 
start to be aware of oh this is how it 
feels but there are three red flags to 
let us know when we're in the red zone 
one is emotions you don't want when 
you're feeling very angry or irritable 
or sad or anxious it's probably an 
indicator you're in the Red Zone the 
second thing is 
physical Sensations you don't want for a 
lot of people when they're in the Red 
Zone they get a headache or back pain or 
you know GI disturbance I remember when 
I was um working on my dissertation I 
walked by the mirror and this is how I 
looked 
my ears and my shoulders have become one 
right because all my red zones goes into 
my neck so physical Sensations is 
another one and then the third is 
behaviors engaging in behaviors that you 
don't want to maybe you're more 
irritable with loved ones maybe you are 
over consuming things or maybe you're 
procrastinating and avoiding certain 
things all of those are red flags that 
you might be in the red zone and the key 
is to realize that you're in the red 
zone and when you were in the Red Zone 
you don't think rationally and you don't 
act rationally so I have a client right 
now 
we have so much fun together 
um but but it's really funny because 
she'll start talking about a problem and 
she's really worried about something and 
then she'll stop and she'll be like I'm 
RedZone thinking right now like your 
reds don't think you're right now if you 
were in the green zone how might you 
view this differently 
because again we think differently we 
have to be aware when we're in the 
region we're not thinking wrestling and 
this has nothing to do with IQ or you 
know education level when I'm in the Red 
Zone I don't think rationally right so 
the key is just to be aware of that and 
to get yourself out of the Red Zone 
because once you're out of the Red Zone 
then you're using more of that frontal 
lobe then you're using more of your 
rational thinking then you can really 
determine is my thinking how helpful 
what are some steps that I can take how 
can I help myself in this situation but 
it's really hard to do that when we're 
in the red zone 
so let's say something happens to me at 
work and how do I know and I'm 
distressed and you know I how do I know 
I'm in my red zone right you're like 
okay my emotions my physical Sensations 
my behaviors but is there is there 
something else if I can say to myself 
you know what if I can't find any 
positives in this situation I'm in the 
Red Zone if I cannot see another 
perspective except mine I'm in the Red 
Zone like I'm trying to think cerebrally 
from a day to day right I'm a business 
owner what do I like what is is there a 
question I can ask myself 
so I love that thinking and here's the 
deal all of those questions to even 
think about require your frontal lobe 
which ain't working at that time 
so that awareness of wow I can't 
actually see anything positive right now 
I must be in the red zone 
that's either low red zone or you're not 
even in the red zone to be able to have 
that thought you're all right you have 
to sort of get meta and no it's like 
when I'm feeling crappy or mad or 
frustrated or sad I have to sort of Rise 
Above Bella 
are you able to see other perspectives 
at this moment and just asking yourself 
at least for me it sounds like if I can 
develop that sort of meta awareness like 
wait a second ask yourself this question 
right now it can automatically push me 
back down to yellow or green just with 
that awareness 
if you can have that awareness in the in 
the red zone that is great I would 
suggest having an external 
um cue for yourself so maybe if it's 
something that you've been you know 
dealing with maybe even having like a 
posted on your computer 
so that it goes because again it's 
really hard to it's hard to think 
rationally when we're in the red zone 
I'll give an example I was working with 
a client 
um and she it's there's a particular 
um individual with whom she works who 
just put her in the Red Zone every 
interaction they had and she told me she 
said I could hear your voice my clients 
always tell me they can they can hear it 
like I'm like in their heads she's like 
I could hear you telling me to be 
grateful and I just didn't want to be 
that is a great example of Red Zone 
because in the Red Zone like our 
subconscious feels like it is basically 
drowning that's not the time to practice 
God right and so so if you notice 
yourself I can't you know I don't want 
to think of anything positive right now 
that's a great sign that you're in the 
red zone right I want to punch her in 
the face that's Red Zone and that would 
be Red Zone yeah ah okay by the way I 
have I have a saying if you think you 
are you probably are so um the beauty is 
you know if you take the steps to get 
out of the Red Zone even if you were 
just at a what I call I call you know uh 
green yellow red so even if you're in 
the yellow zone it's not gonna hurt 
things but if you think you are you 
probably are and also start to train 
yourself to identify from zero to ten 
where am I right now you're going into a 
meeting where am I right now you come 
out of the meeting where am I right now 
and while this may seem kind of tedious 
the more you do it the more aware you 
are of all those subtle signs and 
symptoms whether it's your thinking or 
your emotions or your physical 
Sensations or your behaviors you start 
to train yourself to be aware of where 
you are on the scale I love that and now 
let's say you have said okay I'm 
training myself to not be an eight at 
all times how do I get myself into green 
how do I exit the Red Zone like exit 
stage left we're going to open the red 
door and we're going to walk into the 
green hallway how do I get to the green 
hallway 
so the first step is to get out of the 
Red Zone and then the second step is to 
stay out of the Red Zone because we 
can't think rationally when we're in the 
red zone so the ways 
um the ways to help ourselves we're in 
the Red Zone I created something called 
the helm principle help and so when you 
are in the Red Zone you want to grab 
stress by the helm H stands for halt 
halt all movement in this region of your 
body and that would be your mouth when 
you are in the Red Zone do not let 
anything out of your mouth because 
that's when we say things we later 
regret and don't put anything in your 
mouth because that's when we tend to 
consume things related crap I will say 
um and 
um I think it's important that we all 
remember that we're all human there were 
several times particularly during 
quarantine when I had not one but two 
hands over my mouth so that I would not 
respond to one of my children 
because I was just so there was just a 
lot of tension going on there's a lot of 
stress going on so halt don't let 
anything out out of your mouth in your 
mouth e of the helm principle is 
exercise 
I'm not talking about 90 minutes of yoga 
I'm talking about moving your body right 
Jumping on the Bed doing some push-ups 
sit-up squats jogging up some stairs 
going for a brisk walk what does this do 
it doesn't change your life but it 
releases biochemicals in your brain so 
that you can start to get out of that 
red zone so that's e-l is laughter you 
know laughter is the best medicine right 
um the other day my teenager was being 
rather teenagery and I felt myself 
creeping up and I said to her because in 
our household we have conversations 
about Red Zone it's very discussed and 
normalized because we all get into the 
Red Zone and when we get into the Red 
Zone we apologize for it my youngest the 
other day not the other day excuse me 
last night was snippy about something 
and I knew she was in the Red Zone a 
letter B she texted me about 30 minutes 
later I'm sorry I was I was snippy with 
you I'm stressed out about my exam I I 
apologize 
that's a 15 year old all because she 
understands the Red Zone but anyway so 
my other my other teenager was was being 
teenager and I came in here my my home 
office I got on YouTube and I watched 
some SNL skits the laughter got me out 
of the Red Zone then I could go back and 
have a conversation with her where I 
could be assertive as opposed to 
aggressive or passive aggressive right 
and then the uh M of the helmet 
principles music I'm sure you've you've 
we've all heard a song that we haven't 
heard in in years or depending on our 
age decades and it brings us right back 
to that time right music has a very 
powerful impact on our emotions so I 
recommend to my coaching clients that 
they have a get out of the Red Zone 
playlist of songs that bring them back 
to happier time maybe they like the beat 
the lyrics they can dance around get two 
of those you know aspects of the 
principle but it's really powerful 
because again in the Red Zone it's hard 
to think what song do I want to listen 
to now if you just hit play that can get 
you out and then once you're out that's 
when you can start to really deal with 
what is going on 
wow and this that's so great and I you 
know I'm thinking of how could people 
that are sitting in offices how can they 
do this like if they're red zoning right 
and you're their coach and you know you 
have this toxic colleague or you know a 
boss who just wants to put your head 
underwater all the time you can halt you 
know is there a way do you have a 
protocol for people that may not be able 
to let's say leave their desk and 
exercise and squat or dance and I love 
all of those things but like how do you 
simmer yourself down when you're in an 
external environment 
well you can go into the bathroom stall 
and literally do push do squats I 
wouldn't put your hands on the floor you 
can do squats you can run in place I had 
a client the other day who I see in 
person and we and we stood up and for 45 
seconds we just 
sprinted in place 
you can do that 
um for something like that where it's 
more chronic what I would say is prepare 
yourself before during and after 
so if you know you're going to meet with 
your boss who just puts you in the red 
zone what are you doing beforehand to 
enter into that conversation at a low 
level of distress as possible maybe 
you're going to meditate maybe you're 
going to have a you know a nice cup of 
coffee maybe you're going to go for a 
walk beforehand 
during what can you do to help yourself 
so for example if it's your boss who's 
putting you down but you know your boss 
loves to talk about I don't know their 
new vacation home you can ask the 
question that's going to change his or 
her energy so that things are a little 
more pleasant and then after have a 
carrot waiting for you so if you know 
you have a meeting with your boss and 
you you're afraid it's going to be 
really stressful maybe after you're 
gonna call a friend or you're gonna go 
for a walk or you're gonna take a couple 
minutes and really watch watch like a 
three minute you know comedy clip all of 
that is going to help you so it just 
helps you again get out of the Red Zone 
but then the other thing and this is 
more the long term and this is what I do 
with my coaching clients is is start to 
rewire your brain so that Red Zone 
thinking is not your automatic thinking 
don't think he's your automatic thinking 
um so for example I don't know you make 
a mistake in a presentation Red Zone 
thinking is you know I'm a total failure 
I'm going to lose my job green I'm 
thinking is I'm human I can learn from 
this I'll practice more next time right 
and so so helping really rewire what we 
say to ourselves so that it's more 
helpful because here's the thing it's 
not people it's not circumstances that 
cause us to be in the red zone 
it's our interpretation of it and I'll 
give a quick example I was working I was 
doing my uh postdoctoral training I 
worked at a major Trauma Center 
I was working with a gentleman who was a 
um uh electrician and he had an accident 
where they had to surgically amputate 
both of his arms to save his life and I 
I assumed he would be in the red zone 
right I was gonna go help him deal with 
being depressed and help us and hopeless 
and I went in there and he was one of 
the happiest man I've ever met not 
because he had lost his arms but because 
you stuck a microphone in his brain he 
was saying I'm so grateful that my life 
was saved I almost died and I didn't and 
I know I'm here for a reason and I don't 
know what it is and I can't wait to 
figure it out that is what you would 
hear in his brain as opposed to what 
frankly might be in my brain oh my gosh 
I can't believe this happened you know 
again that that kind of RedZone thinking 
so realizing it's not your boss it's not 
your customer colleague it's not the 
situation it's how you view the 
situation and so you can learn the 
skills again it's just a skill like 
playing golf you can learn the skills of 
how to rewire your brain so that even 
people who tend to be toxic you don't 
have to absorb that energy you don't 
have to purse personalize what they're 
doing and you can maintain control of 
your reaction even though you can't 
control what they are doing or saying oh 
such Sage advice and 
do you have any advice to my singles 
about Red Zone thinking and how they can 
stay out of the Red Zone 
um you know like 
thinking I'm too old there's nobody good 
out there anymore I'm too heavy nobody 
messages me you know or Red Zone moments 
where people ask a shitty question like 
hey why have you never been married why 
are you still single like do you have 
any good tips and I know you've gotta I 
know we we're gonna wrap you soon and 
I'm so grateful for your time but any 
gems you can leave are single listeners 
with I would be grateful for yeah and 
here's the thing about that Red Zone 
thought there's data to support it right 
I haven't found someone so see I am 
right change the focus from being right 
to being happy 
I thought of I haven't met someone yet 
feels much better then I'm never going 
to meet someone and even though there's 
data support that you haven't met anyone 
yet and if you think that way we know I 
mean we're just talking about energy and 
you know what what we think is exactly 
what we attract stop focusing on being 
right A lot of people they say they want 
to be happy but really they they focus 
on being right because then they feel 
like they're in control because if I 
think well maybe he is out there or 
maybe she is out there and then it 
doesn't happen then I'm going to be 
disappointed and that's even worse so 
stop worrying about being right and 
focus on being happy what thoughts what 
thoughts can you buy into right not oh 
he's you know I'm going to meet that 
person this afternoon that may not be 
something that you can buy into but what 
thoughts can you buy into I haven't met 
the right person yet right there are so 
many stories and maybe I'm sure you 
share them with with your clients of 
people who I mean I just went to a 
wedding 
this two weeks ago down in Naples 
Florida a friend of mine 53 years old he 
had never been married 43 year old woman 
she had never been married it was the 
most beautiful thing and I'm telling you 
how did it happen when they were 20 and 
23 and 33 it would not have been as 
beautiful so focusing again what thought 
would feel good that I can buy into one 
two is this a Red Zone thought or a 
green so thought it's a game you can 
play with yourself I'm never going to 
meet anyone is that a Red Zone thought 
Evergreens on that it's obviously a 
redstone thought what might a green zone 
thought be and make it a game to kind of 
come up with these and then the third 
piece of advice as long as I'm shoving 
things on you is what I call BFA best 
friend advice if your best friend came 
to you saying what you were saying to 
yourself you're fat you're ugly you're 
old you're never gonna you're never 
gonna find someone what would your best 
friend say to you you're right you are 
all of those things and let me remind 
you of three other things that you 
forgot to to acknowledge of how horrible 
you are you're fat you're ugly and 
you're losing 
you would never say that to your best 
friend right and so what advice would 
you give them you're an amazing 
individual you just haven't found the 
right person think of that advice that 
you would give to someone you love and 
give it to yourself we speak to 
ourselves 
not only in ways we wouldn't we would we 
wouldn't speak to our best friend we 
speak to ourselves in ways that we 
wouldn't even speak to our enemies right 
and for some reason we give ourselves 
permission to do that stop that what 
goes on up here impacts every single 
thing that goes on in your life and you 
have to change what goes on up here in 
order to whether you want to call it 
manifest you want to call it experience 
you want to call it whatever it is you 
have to change what's going on up here 
to change what's going on out here out 
here is a reflection of what's uh going 
on up here and I'm not talking about 
thinking Pollyanna I'm perfect and 
everyone's going to love me I'm not 
talking that I'm thinking talking about 
rational helpful thinking and starting 
to rewire your brain so that it works 
for instead of against you 
I love this so much the metaphor I was 
thinking of right now is are you do you 
picture yourself are you looking through 
the world through your green zone 
glasses or do you have the red glasses 
on right and if you're feeling bad sad 
angry scared frustrated stressed 
whatever that is the distress that you 
talk about you've got your red glasses 
on put on the green glasses right and be 
better and the beauty of this what I 
love what Elizabeth is doing for me and 
hopefully for you is empowering you to 
know that you have agency in feeling 
happier in any given situation put the 
right glasses on put the right glasses 
on Dr Lombardo Dr E Elizabeth thank you 
so much for being here with us so so so 
grateful and I'm gonna put a link to her 
book get the red zone book people I'm 
going to put a link to her website if 
you want coaching from her she's amazing 
she's all of the things thank you thank 
you for being with us 
thank you 
