these days we have such a big problem of 
people feeling lonely and I think it's 
very much connected with depression but 
even in relationships it could be that 
people are together for 10 or 20 years 
and they actually have no idea what's 
going on in each other you know what is 
the inner world of that person and then 
often when they maybe decide to go to 
therapy things come out and they're like 
oh my go I had like no idea that this is 
how you've been feeling or I have no 
idea that this is how your childhood was 
really like and then suddenly like a lot 
of anger just goes away because we 
understand the other person because if 
you can see someone clearly then you're 
going to feel connected but of course 
you know Society is where we talk to 
each other very often people have not 
learned it um and uh I think that this 
is also a big reason why people get 
separated or divorced because if there 
is no connection there's almost you know 
nothing holding you together 
