[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
welcome back guys to the Smart dating 
Academy podcast and 
I'm particularly excited to talk about 
dating 
and weight gain or just weight gain and 
just wait in general and what clued me 
into wanting to talk about this topic 
was listening to one of my favorite 
podcasts called Dr Striker's Insider 
information and the menopause podcast 
I'm not menopausal but she's got so much 
great information on her podcast that I 
thought let's bring 
Dr Striker on to the podcast to talk 
about weight because 
everybody that I work with to some way 
shape or form we all have little 
insecurities with regards to our weight 
it could be five pounds it could be 50 
pounds it could be a hundred fifty 
pounds I've seen everything in my 
practice over the last 13 years so I am 
extremely excited to have Dr Striker who 
I am good friends with so I call her 
Lauren she's a gynecologist a professor 
at Northwestern University she's the 
author of multiple books about women's 
health which are amazing and the host of 
her podcast that I just talked to you 
about so welcome Lauren I am so happy to 
talk to you about weights my favorite 
unfavorite everybody's favorite topic 
it's like not but it's an important 
topic because you're right people obsess 
about it they worry about it and when 
they come to our Clinic it is absolutely 
in the top three of things that women 
want to talk about when they get there 
it's amazing when people sign up for 
coaching at Smart dating academy one of 
the first things we do for them is a 
photo shoot and literally I'm not 
exaggerating if 50 of people that come 
in they're like well I'd really like to 
lose blah blah blah pounds should I work 
on that and I said you know what with 
certain numbers the camera is not going 
to pick that up and if there's way more 
to lose who cares do your photo shoot 
now because you're beautiful and if you 
do get to your goal weight treat 
yourself to another shoot so we talk 
about weight right you think about 
dating and relationships right and we 
think about 
it's just this one piece but health and 
wellness and weight has a direct impact 
on how we feel about ourselves wouldn't 
you say women are self-critical they 
always have been and certainly when you 
think in terms of dating there's two 
things at play here that people worry 
about specifically with weight number 
one is are they going to get the guy you 
know or the you know the partners is 
that person even going to be interested 
in them if they don't have the perfect 
body and then number two is at some 
point if things go well they're gonna 
have to take their clothes off and for a 
lot of women particularly if they have 
not been sexual for a long time it's bad 
enough to think about how all that's 
gonna go but then on top of that when 
you put G here I am you know I'm not 20 
anymore time has not been good to my 
hips and my thighs and now I have to 
take it all off in front of the new guy 
that I actually like so yes it is a big 
issue it's a big issue and I'll tell you 
what to that point we work with men and 
women and men that work with us can be 
just as self-conscious about their 
weight we recently started working with 
the gentleman that dropped 100 pounds 
and was so proud of his progress and he 
looks amazing thing in his photo shoot 
so 
um but I can see that it is you know 
it's all of us at a certain point and 
whether you're 22 or you're 82 listening 
to this we all tend to magnify our flaws 
and wait like Lauren said tends to be in 
the top three and I would wholeheartedly 
concur that that's what we see in our 
practice as well so Laura tell us a 
little bit about your own you know 
people always assumed you grew up the 
skinny kid and you tell a great story in 
your podcast about this and how it 
affected you they always wanted to be 
the skinny kid because actually my 
passion was ballet and when we talk 
about kids who who want to be thin we're 
talking about the kids who are into 
gymnastics and and dance and I was that 
kid but I was never I was a normal 
weight kid I always was but I went 
through an early puberty I was actually 
10. and the minute I went through 
puberty all of a sudden I had hips and I 
mean hips and I thought whoa I can't 
just eat whatever I want so I started to 
be very careful and and I was always 
careful and then I also had a you know 
kind of a bad family history my father 
and a lot of relatives in my family had 
very early heart disease so as as time 
went on my efforts to maintain a normal 
body weight were because yes I was a 
dancer and I had people always said does 
ballet help you lose weight and I said 
absolutely every single week I put on a 
leotard and got in front of a mirror and 
that makes me lose weight it wasn't the 
actual dancing it was the leotard the 
being in front of the mirror having 
being surrounded by other skinny girls 
and having ballet teachers that quite 
frankly gave me a very hard time if 
there was an ounce of extra fat so in 
that sense it wasn't the healthiest 
approach but I was very much aware but 
yeah I've spent a lifetime of being very 
very care careful about what I what I 
eat and I as I talked about in my 
podcast my father uh had his first heart 
attack in his 40s as many others in my 
family have and he subsequently died 
very young at 63 of heart disease so for 
me it wasn't yes vanity no question 
there's a there's a big piece of me 
that's vain that wants 
to leotard the whole thing but as I got 
older and wasn't dancing anymore I love 
clothes I want it to look nice but it 
also became a medical necessity for me 
to to keep my weight down and I cannot 
tell you how many patients when I talk 
to him about weight and they'll look at 
me and say yeah well you know you never 
had to worry about weight because I'm a 
normal weight and when I say to them 
it's just not true I've spent a lifetime 
I know exactly what I eat every day I am 
always conscious of it I love food I 
enjoy food I eat a lot of food I cook 
all the time I entertain all the time so 
it's it's not that food isn't a big part 
of my life I'm just very mindful in 
terms of what I eat portions and 
activities to offset all the blue cheese 
that I really love 
I love that and you know people a lot of 
times make the same assumptions about me 
well you've never had to worry about 
your weight I'm like I've worried about 
my weight since I was nine years old you 
know my dad when I was nine said to me 
I'll give you ten dollars for every 
pound you lose right in third grade and 
I was never fat when I look back at 
pictures I look at and it's like wow so 
you start to wonder where we start to 
have issues told me that did it work did 
you make a lot of money I made no money 
I tried it for two days and I you know 
would do some TV workout shows back in 
the 80s and you know try to eat two 
apples a day and it clearly didn't work 
so weight has oh so always been a thing 
for me since I was a kid and very 
similar to your family history we have 
tremendous history of heart disease in 
our family stroke my grandmother died of 
heart disease my dad's sister died of 
heart disease his heart is scotch taped 
together with six stents of quadruple 
bypass and a pacemaker so I take health 
and wellness very seriously because I 
know I was not gifted the genetic 
lottery in any way shape or form but you 
know I think it's also important that 
you know certainly you and I we are 
concerned about our family history but 
family history aside heart disease is 
the number one killer of women period 
and women worry so much about breast 
cancer and other medical illnesses when 
in fact heart disease is what people 
should be laser focused on and we look 
at risk factors for heart disease and 
certainly you know weight is one of 
those factors so on one hand we say okay 
don't obsess about your weight and I'm 
in agreement with that you don't have to 
be perfect you don't have to be you know 
this this rad thing we're not wearing 
leotards looking in the mirror anymore I 
think no and you know certainly as you 
get up there into the 40s and 50s that 
extra five ten pounds it's gonna happen 
which is why Spanx was invented of 
course but you also have to be realistic 
that it's not okay to be 50 60 70 pounds 
overweight because we we hear all the 
time when people say well I'm overweight 
but my numbers are good I'm healthy and 
they're kidding themselves because their 
numbers might be good right now at that 
moment in time and someone can be 50 or 
60 pounds overweight and they might be 
fit because they work out a lot and 
their numbers are good but statistically 
the reality is is that when you look at 
the impact of weight on not only 
cardiovascular disease but diabetes and 
cancer yeah when we look at the 
different cancers uterine cancer breast 
cancer those are very much tied to 
excess weight no matter how fit you are 
no matter how good your numbers are so 
you know I I think we need to have a 
really good perspective that the idea is 
not to be skinny skinny the idea is to 
be healthy the idea is to eat in a 
healthy way but we also have to maintain 
a healthy weight and just you know not 
let things get out of control if we want 
to live our best life and our longest 
life absolutely and and tell us you know 
just to because I think this is so fun 
you did a fun survey on this so ladies 
this is for you about what men's biggest 
turn-offs and turn-ons are so this was 
part of a bigger survey they were 
actually about 30 or 40 questions my 
biggest bedroom deal breaker survey and 
I surveyed hundreds of men about what 
their biggest bedroom deal breakers were 
and then I surveyed women as well and we 
can talk about some of those it's kind 
of fun but but one of the things that I 
asked they were all multiple choice and 
and one of the questions was you know 
are any of these bedroom deal breakers 
and it was things like you know saggy 
breasts 
lumpy thighs you know big butt and one 
of the choices was none of those are 
deal breakers I'm just happy to be 
invited to the party and that was the 
number one response and I didn't expect 
that you know I thought that these guys 
on an anonymous survey totally Anonymous 
wow see what they were really thinking 
well you know okay let's be honest here 
when I see those ripply thighs it's a 
big turn off not at all not at all and 
when when I looked at the whole survey 
to say okay what is your biggest bedroom 
turn off you want to have Bella you want 
to guess what the biggest bedroom turn 
off was 
um 
it surprised me I'm trying to think of 
what it might be I mean something 
something we said do we make them not 
feel attractive the number one biggest 
bedroom turn off was hygiene 
hygiene so hi jeans 
yes yes you know men if they they I mean 
this was it was an overwhelming response 
that 
she's got to be clean 
so all this effort that's put into your 
hair and what kind of eye shadow and are 
you going to pluck your eyebrows just 
take a shower evidently the number two 
the number two biggest turn off was 
women who during sex remember this 
survey was about biggest bedroom turn 
off so it was about sex it was about 
some yeah it was about sex this number 
two biggest bedroom turn off was women 
who were not responsive meaning if he's 
trying really hard or in his version of 
trying really hard to do something that 
he thinks is going to be pleasurable 
silence is not the appropriate response 
they either want to hear oohs and Oz or 
quite frankly they want some 
communication you know nope you're a 
little too high move down an inch you 
know move to the left need you to be 
there not there you know that's what 
they they want women to participate 
that's really what it comes down to so 
take a shower and participate and you 
are off to a great start even if you 
don't have a perfect body I 
so much because we buy body shame 
ourselves look Lauren said she did it to 
herself since she was a kid I've done it 
with myself from the time I was a kid 
until today right we all do it but 
surveying the opposite gender says they 
just want to be invited to your party 
not to mention this is what Candlelight 
is for everybody looks more attractive 
but you think he's so perfect look at 
his body it's not like he's got a 
six-pack and you know everything is 
perfect so yes it's the idea of set the 
lighting set the mood nice music scented 
candle all of those things are just 
going to make everyone feel more 
confident and more attractive I love 
let's shower together even you know I'm 
just just saying just saying so okay and 
I know this is not about weight but I 
gotta know if those were men's biggest 
turn-offs and turn-ons just give us a 
few from women 
about men oh boy um a lot of them are 
hygiene related 
toenails shower people yeah well cut 
your toenails too evidently women tend 
to get pedicures men do not and 
something about those yellow gnarly 
toenails 
yellow teeth not good and this one oh 
God I hope people don't turn off this 
podcast when I when I say this one but 
streaks on his tidy whities 
what what I know I 
could definitely bedroom turn off for 
the ladies Mama didn't teach you how to 
wipe evidently 
oh dear lord okay yes you asked so okay 
I did so a lot of this nobody said 
potbellies nobody said thighs nobody 
said cellulite nobody said you know my 
double chin so okay that's all great so 
if you're sitting there shaming yourself 
going I need to lose this much weight 
just exhale because there is a lid to 
your cute little pot that is out there 
exactly as you are so now let's talk a 
little bit about weight gain and what I 
found interested Lauren is tell us about 
what you realized about metabolism 
throughout life so as a physician of 
course I've been talking to women about 
this for decades and one of the mantras 
always has been well you know when you 
get to hit your 40s metabolism slows 
down so if you eat the same and you 
exercise the same you're gonna gain 
weight that's just the way it is and 
then a study came out last year that 
complete greatly turn their thinking 
upside down because this was a really 
good study a well done study of an 
enormous number of people tracked over a 
long period of time and what they found 
is in fact metabolism doesn't slow down 
in the 40s it actually stays pretty 
steady from age 20 to 60 and then at 60 
is when metabolism starts to slow but 
not that much not that much just by 
about you know less than one percent a 
year so the reason that people gain 
weight midlife particularly which is the 
group that I'm focused on 
isn't because of slow metabolism there's 
a lot of other factors and the other 
statistic of course that I cite all the 
time is that women are twice as likely 
to gain weight as men so when we talk 
about why people gain weight and it's a 
lot of Lifestyle stuff I mean face if 
the kids are finally out of the house or 
going out to eat you're having wine 
every night with dinner you're not 
exercising and we we all know the 
reasons but men and women both have 
those same Lifestyle Changes yet it's 
the women that tend to gain more weight 
why Lauren why well 
there's a couple of reasons first of all 
and you know again I'm focusing more on 
perimenopausal women and menopausal 
women but that that happens a lot 
earlier than people think a lot of women 
who are in their 40s and they're 
starting to put on some weight and it 
never occurs to them that it may be 
perimenopause because in their heads 
perimenopause and menopause's grandma is 
you know 55 60 65 and in fact any time 
of 40 after 40 is normal and it's very 
typical for women in her early or 
mid-40s to start to go through some of 
these perimenopausal changes and what 
happens it's actually not the lack of 
estrogen that causes the weight gain 
directly it's indirectly because as your 
estrogen levels start to fluctuate 
you don't get a decent night's sleep and 
we know that that's absolutely 
correlated with weight gain we can talk 
about why and we also know that a lot of 
women start to have hot flashes and hot 
flashes also correlate with weight gain 
because of that surge in cortisol that 
you get so when you really do the Deep 
dive into weight gain mid-life yes 
lifestyle yes food choices but if I 
could fix one thing that would help 
everyone lose weight it would be getting 
a good night's sleep because if you 
don't get at least seven hours of good 
sleep good sleep that means that your 
hunger hormones I don't know if you're 
familiar with leptin and graylands but 
these are the hunger hormones and this 
is of any age if you're if you're 
leptins and graylands are not in the 
right range you are going to eat not 
only too much but you're going to eat 
the bad stuff you're going to eat the 
carbs you're going to go for the veggie 
you're not going to go for the veggies 
you're going to go for the pizza you're 
going to go for the french fries 
and 
so we have to look at why you're not 
sleeping because this again is something 
we see in all ages my podcast actually 
um that just came out a couple of weeks 
ago was about sleep and just to sleep 
throughout the ages because even if 
you're not having hot flashes sleep 
apnea restless leg stress pain all of 
those things can get in the way of a 
decent night's sleep and I always tell 
people losing weight is going to be a 
losing battle if you don't get a decent 
night's sleep that's where we start and 
then we start to look at other things 
okay and if this is resonating with you 
you know sleep is a big deal and you 
need the seven hours like she said and 
if you are not sleeping well maybe you 
go and see a sleep specialist if you 
need to or you fix the obvious things 
right you chill yourself out at night 
turn off your phones don't have screen 
time don't talk to the people in your 
family that stress you out late at night 
right don't watch the scary movie right 
before you go to bed don't drink too 
much alcohol you're gonna wake up in the 
middle of night a lot of people do that 
they they go to the wine because it 
helps them sleep right and and it will 
it will help you fall asleep but then 
you will find that you're waking up in 
the middle of the night but you know you 
mentioned the the cell phone all of that 
it goes far beyond the cell phone and 
the screen there was a study that came 
out this year that said any ambient 
light even if it's just a little sliver 
of light under the door 
may keep you from getting that good 
solid seven hours of sleep so I'm a big 
fan of sleep masks I think instead of 
handing out sleeping pill prescriptions 
we should be giving everyone a sleep 
mask a really comfortable good sleep 
mask because that is going to make a 
difference for a lot of people and I'm 
not I don't want to oversimplify you 
give everyone a sleep mask and they're 
going to sleep but those are first steps 
you know first you make sure that you 
are not doing anything to sabotage your 
sleep and then if in spite of doing all 
the the Sleep hygiene sorts of things 
you still can't sleep yes sleep 
specialists are the go-to's most major 
medical centers have sleep specialists 
there are many medical conditions that 
people aren't even thinking about that 
could impact on their sleep and there 
are solutions I always say everything I 
do I'm solution oriented and it's not 
enough just to say that there's an issue 
you have to come up with the solutions 
for that issue 
so I'm that's great with regards to the 
seven or eight hours question asking for 
a friend just kidding 
um I tend to be somewhat of a night owl 
and I now you know as I am getting older 
I try to be in bed by midnight right and 
so now is that seven to eight hours is 
there an Optimum time like should I be 
thinking about doing 10 to 6 or 11 to 7 
instead no it doesn't matter whether you 
start at midnight or you start at 10 or 
quite frankly if you start at two in the 
morning what you want is restorative 
sleep that good REM sleep so ideally you 
don't want to be up and down you want it 
to be seven hours in a row in a perfect 
world and really the most important 
thing quite frankly to simplify this if 
you wake up in the morning and you feel 
well rested you're probably okay it's 
the women that wake up in the morning 
and they feel like oh my God I I have to 
I have to take a nap soon you know how 
soon can I lie down again and and those 
are the women that are not getting good 
night's sleep the other thing is I think 
most people are familiar with sleep 
apnea but when they think of sleep apnea 
they think of people who are very 
overweight and who are snoring which is 
true that is one of the risks those are 
the risk factors but thin people can 
also have sleep apnea and people who 
don't snore can also have sleep apnea 
and one of the things that seems to be 
specifically in women is if you wake up 
in the morning and you have a morning 
headache you need to get screened for 
sleep apnea 
too many women are missed and sleep 
apnea is treatable and we know that when 
we talk about not getting enough sleep 
yes we're talking about weight we're 
focusing about weight today but the lack 
of sleep is associated with so many 
other medical conditions and serious 
conditions so you know getting getting 
enough sleep is no small matter 
okay got it and and so and also you said 
sleep and hot flashes and those can 
happen to you even in your 40s right and 
these are why women gain more weight 
than guys but dudes if you're listening 
to this and you're you know sweating up 
a storm in the middle of the night maybe 
crack a window or turn on the AC that's 
right I mean anytime someone gets 
overheated anytime someone has a half 
wish they are going to get that surge of 
cortisone once in a while is not going 
to make a difference but we know that 
when it's chronically happening when 
it's when it's you know every night 
going on and on it is going to have a 
big impact not only on on weight gain 
but on a lot of other health conditions 
as well you know we know that it's 
associated with with heart disease for 
example with women with bone loss with 
cognitive function you know we talk 
about brain fog and all these other 
lovely perimenopausal things 
um and and when someone comes into I run 
a center for perimenopause and menopause 
at Northwestern and when someone comes 
in and they have all these complaints 
that is basically the first thing we say 
is how are you sleeping and they like 
look at us and say sleep are you kidding 
I never sleep well that's the first 
thing we're going to dress we're going 
to try and find out why and correct that 
because very often when we correct sleep 
everything else falls into place 
cognition mood losing weight libido you 
know there's nothing that's going to 
kill libido like not sleeping because 
you see that pillow when you're not 
thinking about sex all you're thinking 
is about I hope you know he leaves me 
alone so I can get a decent night's 
sleep so you know there's a very long 
list of things that are impacted by a 
lack of sleep 
wow that's amazing and then if you don't 
sleep well you're more likely to grab 
the pizza and have that third glass of 
wine the next day right it's a workout I 
mean not working about that you know if 
you think if you're exhausted and you're 
considering going to the gym or going 
for that long walk no way no way no way 
I got it so tell us about the different 
types of fat that exist what's Good the 
Bad and bad fat or what's bad and what's 
with the damn Muffin Top okay well let's 
talk about Muffin Top first so Muffin 
Top is the redistribution of weight that 
happens when your estrogen levels fall 
now earlier I said that estrogen low 
estrogen does not cause you to gain 
weight however low estrogen does cause a 
redistribution of the weight that you 
have so even if you don't gain a pound 
if you're in that lucky group that gains 
no weight when you go through 
perimenopause and menopause there will 
be a redistribution of your weight so 
that you have more of that midsection 
weight and that's where that Muffin Top 
is from and then if you combine that 
with the fact that most women do gain an 
average of five pounds in the first year 
that they enter menopause 
you are going to suddenly find that you 
cannot get your genes up where you could 
before so you're not imagining it it 
does happen 
some of it I say there's got to be 
little acceptance here that you're you 
know 40 45 year old body is just not 
going to be the same as your 20 year old 
body but having said that certainly 
keeping you you know keeping it a 
healthy weight exercising women who 
choose to take hormone therapy if you 
take estrogen you're not going to get as 
much of that redistribution of weight 
you're not going to get as much of that 
muffin top but but to get back to the 
good weight and bad weight you know from 
a medical perspective and everyone has 
their definition of good weight and bad 
weight for me it's always been my you 
know tush weight but medically speaking 
the bad weight is is belly fat and 
visceral fat when visceral fat is this 
the fat inside that you can't see that's 
the fat that surrounds your organs like 
your heart and 
and that is the fat that is most 
associated with medical problems like 
diabetes and metabolic syndrome and 
heart disease and the women that have 
belly fat are the ones that have the 
predisposition to having visceral fat 
interestingly if you carry your weight 
in your thighs and your butt that 
actually seems to protect against 
diabetes 
um I don't know why but but it does so 
it's the belly fat that's the problem 
fat if you will 
wow and is there a way to know that you 
have visceral fat or just look at your 
stomach and if it's bulging out you 
probably have some visceral fat you 
probably do I mean certainly there's 
there's different Imaging that can be 
done you know MRIs and all that that 
they can identify but it's not the kind 
of thing that a woman is going to know 
just by looking in the mirror 
wow 
um well so we're hormonally challenged 
if we sleep better 
we'll certainly be able to take it off 
tell us about you know what are the tips 
to take off the weight and keep off the 
weight whether it's for vanity whether 
it's for health whether it's some 
combination of both like for most of us 
listening to this give us like things 
that we can do today that can put us on 
a better trajectory and I've got my 
notepad out taking notes wanting these 
tips 
it's actually pretty interesting because 
my podcast my 12 tip podcast which is 12 
tips to take off weight has been one of 
the most popular podcasts 
um up there with uh how to have a better 
orgasm just saying but 
um you know so my tips are basically 
about breaking patterns because when you 
talk about food that you eat or don't 
eat most of the women I work with are 
really smart they know they know that 
yes fruits and vegetables are generally 
better for you than a bag full of 
chocolate chip cookies so people don't 
need to be told what food they should 
eat and shouldn't eat it's really about 
breaking patterns and it's not a lot 
different than Breaking dating patterns 
because I know very often what you are 
telling people is okay so what have you 
been doing for the last 10 years and 
how's that been working for you and I 
basically have the same approach because 
women will come in and say I can't lose 
weight and 
and I've been trying you know for the 
last 10 years and they just they can't 
seem to take it off and so what I try 
and do is break the eating patterns 
break the the way we think about food 
and how we approach food and so I give 
some very very specific tips as an 
example go there give us a specific it's 
interesting because I don't know if you 
like buffets if you go to buffets or if 
you go to restaurants that have buffets 
but I used to be a waitress that's how I 
worked my way through college and 
medical school and I used to work in a 
seafood restaurant here in Chicago and I 
noticed early on that at the beginning 
of the buffet is where they have all the 
inexpensive Foods well the inexpensive 
Foods happen to also be the fattening 
foods you know things like you know 
pasta salad and tuna salad and potatoes 
or gratin and all that kind of stuff and 
and what I realized is what the 
restaurant was banking on is that people 
start at the beginning of the buffet and 
they work their way down so they feel up 
their plates with all the fattening 
stuff 
and then by the time they get to the end 
of the buffet which has not only the 
healthy stuff but the good stuff the 
shrimp the crabs legs the oysters their 
plates were full so they might take one 
shrimp and think oh I'll come back for 
more and then sit down and eat the whole 
plate full of tuna you know macaroni 
fries macaroni and then you know before 
you know it they have eaten an insane 
number of calories so tip one is is 
scope out the whole Buffet before you 
plan your attack you know go to the end 
of the buffet and say okay I am loading 
up on oysters and crab legs with this 
amazing spicy sauce and then maybe I'll 
go back later and have some of that tuna 
salad which why bother you can make that 
at home so 
so that's that's that's tip number one 
is is kind of you know along the same 
lines we all when we get invited to 
someone's home what do we do we say you 
know what can I bring what can I help 
with what can I do and 
I think that that's a lovely thing to do 
of course and you want to help out your 
Hostess but it's also a strategy to make 
sure that there's something that you 
want to eat there because if I go to 
someone's home I will almost always say 
how about if I bring a platter of 
grilled vegetables or how about I make a 
big salad because then I am guaranteed 
that there is going to be something for 
me to eat that's that I like that's good 
but is also going to be healthy so 
that's that's another little tip that's 
a great idea bring what you want to eat 
bring what you want to eat with you 
that's healthy the other thing also is 
when we go out to eat very often we 
order a bottle of wine why do we order a 
bottle of wine because it's less 
expensive we feel like okay if you order 
by the glass it's going to be you know 
whatever it is a glass and that the 
bottle if you add up the glasses is 
always going to be less expensive but 
the reality is if you order a bottle of 
wine you're going to have a highly 
motivated waiter who's going to keep 
pouring and your wine glass will never 
be empty and those calories add up 
really really fast so even if it's a 
little bit more expensive you're better 
off ordering the glass of wine 
finish the glass of wine have a glass of 
Seltzer or something in between and then 
order your second glass of wine and I 
promise you at the end of the night you 
will have two glasses of wine instead of 
three four or five which over a long 
period of time is a lot of calories so 
again it's just it's these are it's all 
behavioral stuff it's strategies it's 
you know and then there's the one that 
you and I discovered together 
um you know the the whole idea we all 
have this 
absolute go-to of if you're going to get 
together with a friend it's let's meet 
for lunch let's meet for dinner let's 
have a drink and I think it was actually 
you that started me down the path of 
let's just go for a walk and because we 
live close to each other and we started 
doing that and it was like this big 
Paradigm Shift of okay this is actually 
better because not only are we out here 
walking for two hours and we can really 
catch up but at the end of that 
we've had our exercise too you know 
we're in here and instead of just you 
know sitting and eating for two hours 
which you will do if you go to a 
restaurant you will you know pick and 
eat and eat and eat long after you're 
full so think in terms of activities 
with a friend go for the manicure go for 
the walk go shopping anything that's not 
surrounding food 
yeah that's great and I love what you 
said and I think I heard this in your 
podcast like even so your first drink 
you know your alcoholic drink goes down 
so easily so fast so fast because you 
come in there and you're thirsty and 
maybe you're a little anxious right so 
instead fill up a glass ideally a pretty 
glass a festive glass I use a wine glass 
with with sparkling water yeah and and 
drink that first before wash your 
cranberry juice delicious and the other 
tip this one was not in my podcast 
um because I couldn't you know you can 
only go on so long I have actually about 
20 or 30 tips but I only did my top 12. 
but another one um is isn't it 
interesting how your so-called friends 
always give you permission to cheat like 
you'll go to someone's home and you're 
thinking okay I am not going to have 
that chocolate cake and then the friend 
will say to you how can you not have a 
piece of cake it's my birthday and then 
they guilt you into having the cake that 
you really didn't want and the analogy I 
always use is if you were allergic to 
shellfish and your friend tried to give 
you a piece of shrimp 
and you said I'm sorry I don't eat 
shrimp I'm allergic to it your friend 
would not say but it's my birthday have 
it anyway you would it just wouldn't 
happen so why is it that we all feel so 
guilty about saying no thank you I'm not 
going to have that and that's you know 
our friends you would think our friends 
would help us when we say I'm not having 
cake right now thank you I'm just going 
to have the fruit and they don't they 
don't support that they're like no no no 
come on it's my birthday like it gives 
them pleasure to have you eat the thing 
that you don't really want to eat do you 
understand that 100 and I feel this way 
even sometimes with my own family 
because food is associated with love and 
so many cultures right and my mom is an 
amazing cook and she will cook the best 
meal all the way to dessert at the end 
and I feel like and maybe this is like 
the recovering pleaser in my my 
personality that if I don't fill my 
plate up with food at least twice it 
doesn't make her feel like her food was 
good enough exactly she and she feels 
like she didn't do her job and oh Bella 
does that mean you didn't like it you 
didn't like it honey I made all of your 
favorites I've been working for for 
three days getting ready for you to come 
and eat your favorite things and how can 
you not speaking of filling plates um 
the other the other tip that I talk 
about is don't use the ginormous plate 
you know Studies have shown that plates 
have gotten bigger in the United States 
I always have to look at Grandma's China 
the player goes oh wow those plates were 
kind of small no those plates were 
normal size now we have these enormous 
platters and you fill them up and I find 
that a smaller plate you will take less 
food our eyes are always bigger than our 
stomach and when you're filling a plate 
you just think it all looks so good and 
I'm going to fill it up take the smaller 
plate fill your smaller plate eat 
everything on the smaller plate and then 
you wait a little bit and if you're 
still hungry you'll go back and you'll 
get some more you know I'm not a fan of 
starving I'm not suggesting anyone 
should ever stop there's no reason to 
ever be hungry there really isn't you 
know we we rarely eat because we're 
really hungry we eat out of board and we 
eat because it tastes good because we 
eat because socially we're someplace 
where everyone is eating and one of the 
things about being a surgeon is when I 
used to do surgeries that were very long 
and any surgeon will tell you you always 
eat before you go into the operating 
room because you don't know how long 
you're going to be there but it wasn't 
unusual for me to go into the operating 
room at seven in the morning and then 
not get out of the operating room until 
two or three in the afternoon 
and people would say don't you get 
hungry and I was like no I didn't even 
think about it because I was so engaged 
because it was so laser focused on what 
I was doing that I didn't have time to 
think about being hungry and so often we 
eat because we don't particularly like 
what we're doing we're looking to take a 
break we're looking to do something 
different so again it's finding 
strategies things to do if you're 
feeling bored if you're feeling like oh 
all I'm thinking about is what I'm gonna 
eat 
think about something else 
100 and I think Lauren you and I have 
talked a little bit about this I mean in 
the last year I've I made every mistake 
cortisol sleep and over the course of 
five years put on the dreaded 20 pounds 
and on my little frame I needed to take 
it off and so doing that what Lauren's 
saying is exactly right sometimes we eat 
for all of these other reasons we eat 
because we're happy we eat because we're 
sad we eat because we're bored we eat 
because we're angry right but we don't 
really eat because we're hungry but 
interestingly even if we are hungry when 
we're so engaged with our brains doing 
something else how many of us haven't 
accidentally skipped a meal I do it all 
the time 
mindfully there's another situation in 
which people tend to not be hungry 
and if you don't know the answer to this 
I'm going to be very disappointed in you 
having sex no when they're in love when 
they're in love oh no it's true you know 
it's true think about the beginning of a 
relationship when you are just 
completely obsessed with this person in 
your life and all you're thinking about 
is being with this person and having sex 
with this person and it turns out that 
there's a biologic reason for that it's 
in the brain it's called the 
melanocortin system which the 
melanocorton system has to do with 
libido and in fact one of the drugs that 
we give to enhance libido 
basically will 
stimulate the melanocortin system but 
the other thing that happens with this 
drug the side effect of this drug is 
nausea and vomiting because the 
melanocortin system also turns off 
hunger and that's because the yin and 
yang of if you're really in love and 
your libido is Sky High you are not 
thinking about food no absolutely not 
you've got and you've got adrenaline 
probably and all sorts of fun yummy 
hormones raging through you right I 
remember in the beginnings of any new 
relationship not thinking about food and 
always dropping pounds because not only 
are you like okay I want to look good 
you know for when the lights go out 
thinking about it you're not it doesn't 
last that's the problem now let's say 
you're in love and it works out and then 
six months later you're still in love 
you're eating you're eating together and 
you've got your feet up on the coffee 
table and you're snacking while you're 
eating but I was going to share one of 
the things as I went on this journey to 
lose weight this year with intermittent 
fasting was just don't snack right and 
it becomes really so much easier and I 
think that I got my mom onto this lately 
she's like I feel so much better because 
she's like breakfast snack lunch snack 
dinner snack like we just graze all day 
long and I told her just try it the 
problem is that you you can make a case 
for that eating small amounts through 
the day is healthy but not having big 
meals and small amounts big meals and 
small big meals and small amounts and 
and one of the things about being a 
doctor actually that was helpful to me 
is you can't have food in patient care 
areas so I've had a lifetime of not only 
being in the operating room or labor and 
delivery or in my office where if you 
want food you literally have to go to 
the break room to get it you can't just 
have drawers of snacks in exam rooms and 
you wouldn't want to you know but so 
there's not a lot of snacking that goes 
on during the day if you're working in a 
doctor's office or there shouldn't be 
because there shouldn't be any food in 
patient care areas wow that's amazing so 
put your snacks way far away from you 
like at the other side of the hospital 
so you can't get to them right you know 
but the other thing also is as many 
Studies have shown that if you have 
someone keep a food diary when they are 
trying to lose weight they will lose 
weight just because of the increased 
awareness of what they're eating they're 
thinking about it so I will tell someone 
don't change anything I just want you to 
keep a food diary for the next two weeks 
that every single thing you put in your 
mouth even if it is one potato chip I 
want you to write it down on this log 
and they have apps now of course where 
you can do that and and every single 
study has shown that if you're honest 
and you truly do write down every single 
thing you put in your mouth you will be 
eating less within a at the end of the 
week then at the beginning of the week 
because it makes you think about it it's 
the Mindless eating you start to say do 
I really need to put this potato chip in 
my mouth am I really hungry and if I put 
one potato chip in my life in my mouth 
you know that that's not going to be the 
last one you know that you're going to 
follow that with you know a number of 
other potato chips so 
um part of it is is is being mindful is 
and that's the only look about noon you 
know that that popular diet I mean 
that's what it is it's behavioral stuff 
and and the book that I recommend in the 
diet I recommend is six factors to fit 
which is by an expert uh Chicago expert 
Bob Kushner and and yes obviously talks 
about that you shouldn't be eating the 
fried foods and healthier foods but it's 
also really about being mindful of these 
behaviors in these patterns you don't 
have to have the donut with your coffee 
every morning you can just have the 
coffee 
and maybe some yogurt and fruit and have 
some eggs or something something that is 
going to fill you up so that you're not 
you know people they skip breakfast and 
then at 10 30 they are so hungry that 
they will eat something that is probably 
not what they really want to be eating 
and I'm a breakfast eater I have coffee 
I'm a big coffee drinker but in the 
morning I will have 
um you know some egg whites and 
vegetables I'm very big on salsa I pour 
hot sauce I like spicy stuff so I pour 
salsa all over everything because it's 
delicious and there's not a lot of 
calories but the eggs will fill me up 
that I'm putting the salsa on and I've 
kind of alternate that with Greek yogurt 
and fresh fruit and it's good you know 
it's not I'm not depriving myself like I 
said earlier I like food I cook all the 
time 
but I am lucky because I happen to like 
things that are healthy I love grilled 
fish with all kinds of interesting 
sauces on it and I you know love grilled 
vegetables so part of it is is having 
the fun of discovering foods that maybe 
were not on your meal plan that you 
actually might like so I can tell you 
personally because I am friends with 
Lauren that number one she is an 
excellent cook and I have had her 
grilled 
chickens and grilled Salmons I'm I'm a 
slow adopter to eating Seafood but I'm 
getting way better at it now and her 
grilled vegetables and I can also last 
time we went out to dinner you ordered 
fish I was a bored I know my mom never 
cooked fish for us growing up because my 
dad didn't like the smell of it so my 
brother and I are really kind of amateur 
Seafood eaters but 
um the other thing that you might not 
know about Lauren is where she practices 
medicine if I'm not mistaken my friend 
there is a huge donut shop right in the 
entry line hobby of where you work at 
Northwestern Hospital oh it's much worse 
than that there's not only a stand donut 
in the lobby in the building in the 
lobby the actual building I passed it 
every day there's a Mandy bees which is 
a bakery Sweet Mandy beans oh my gosh 
this is my Chicago Bakery but you know 
it is like amazing desserts and frosting 
and then there's another donut shop 
about half a block away it's like we are 
in donut Central I once said to someone 
is this like the cardiovascular doctors 
trying to get more patients and just you 
know investing in donut shops all over 
the hospital it is a weird thing but yes 
it is in my building and 
um I actually don't even think about it 
quite honestly I walk right past it 
every day I've never gone in I just it's 
not on my radar I don't go through the 
should I or shouldn't I because I never 
have but I think part of that also is by 
the time I get to work I've had 
breakfast I think it would be different 
if I walked in the door starving yeah 
and I smelled those donuts and I thought 
oh but because I walk on the door and 
I'm truly not hungry yeah I don't think 
about it I love that and for those of 
you who might be you know you get hungry 
in the day and you might want to stop 
off and pick up the McDonald's or the 
Stan's Donuts or the Sweet Mandy B's 
something I've taken to in this last 
year is I keep a bag of salted almonds 
in my purse for those desperate moments 
and always some sparkling water so I'll 
try the sparkling water first wait 15 
minutes if that doesn't work then The 
Salted almonds are coming and I know 
don't judge it's salted almonds should I 
be eating The Salted almonds probably 
plain but you know what it just feels a 
little more like you're having a whole 
bag of them no like five five is five is 
fine you know pretty much anything in 
moderation 
is good for you so yeah I mean it's 
about portion control you know when you 
look at something that is uniquely 
American we eat enormous portions and if 
you spend any time in other countries 
whether it's South America or Europe you 
will find when you go to a restaurant 
that the portions are going to be 
dramatically smaller 
and I'm never hungry you're never and 
you don't gain weight no when we're when 
we eat more slowly the portions are 
smaller it's the the portion control is 
a huge issue because a lot of people 
have this idea while I'm eating healthy 
I don't know why I keep gaining weight 
and it's because if you eat enough of 
anything even if it is healthy 
I mean calories in calories out we know 
that's the case right right right 
exactly I love going to Italy and having 
two gelatos and wine and for some reason 
it's like my magical place on Earth you 
don't gain weight there so I recommend 
if you're thinking about a trip to Italy 
go there because you just won't gain 
weight there's something but there's 
another reason you don't gain weight in 
Italy other than that you know they have 
good portions and you're walking walking 
walking walking but you're not eating 
processed foods yes it's the processed 
foods are the devil and when you are in 
Italy although I think they do have some 
of these chain restaurants popping up 
but in general you are not eating 
processed foods and if it's a food that 
your grandmother would not have served 
you probably shouldn't be eating it now 
we have to say great grandmother because 
processed foods have been around for for 
a long time but but that's a big problem 
and you do not see it in Europe and in 
fact as more of these fast food 
restaurants and processed foods are 
getting into the cultures of these other 
countries we nursing obesity in other 
countries as well in places where it 
used to not exist 
right so try to eat Whole Foods as much 
as you can right like if you know it eat 
what you know God grew on Earth 
essentially one of the problems also and 
you know and just trying to be realistic 
about this is we know that there are a 
lot of food deserts and particularly we 
are lucky you and I to live in an area 
where there's a lot of grocery stores I 
think I'm in walking distance of three 
really good grocery stores and farm 
stands we have a farmer's market a 
couple times a week many many people 
live in areas where truly it does not 
exist they are surrounded by liquor 
stores they're surrounded by fast food 
stores and especially for women who are 
busy and are working and are taking care 
of a family they do not have the time I 
mean my heart goes out to them you can 
have all the good intentions in the 
world they do not have the time to 
travel to a grocery store 30 or 40 
minutes away to get that food to take 
home to make for themselves and for 
their families so they start to rely on 
the fast food which is there and 
inexpensive and it does the job but 
that's one of the reasons you know why 
we have a lot of problems with with 
Weight Control in our country 
yeah no I'm I'm a mom of two teenagers 
all over the place and all the time so I 
can certainly sympathize with just being 
busy and someone's hungry and someone's 
hungry an hour later and then the first 
one's hungry again two hours later so 
your car's stopping in all sorts of 
places well Lauren is there any other 
you know last things that you want to 
tell us about weights and how we can you 
know 
get rid of it be healthy I I think that 
the word of caution that I would give 
everybody is there's so many fad diets 
out there they're nothing but grapefruit 
diet and they eat you know things that 
only start with the letter L diet and 
all this and and the problem with these 
diets is that they're not sustainable 
and when you go on a diet you're not 
going on a diet that I'm going to go on 
a diet and lose the weight and go off 
the diet because you'll gain the weight 
right back I think in terms of changing 
the way you eat changing the way you 
think about food and again you should 
never starve yourself there's no reason 
to be hungry it's about enjoying food 
and celebrating food with the people you 
love and the people you want to be with 
or cooking for yourself it doesn't 
matter I you know food should be a 
positive thing not a negative thing 
where there's too much self-loathing 
there's too much self-criticism let's 
think in terms of eating healthy taking 
good care of our bodies which in turn 
will take care of our our minds our 
confidence our energy levels it all 
comes together 
well this was amazing thank you so much 
for sharing your gems with us and I know 
we will have you back and soon 
anytime and then we'll talk more about 
those bedroom deal breakers right oh my 
God and what how to how to have a better 
orgasm stay tuned ladies and gentlemen 
you know 
I have lots of tips for that oh all 
right we're definitely going to have you 
back soon thank you Lauren thank you 
