[Music] 
it is 
my duty and obligation to you dear 
listener to answer your question 
people are all over the question 
what is 
love bombing i have a guest today dr 
katherine helm what is love bombing love 
mommy is interesting because you know it 
when you felt it if you've ever gone on 
a date with someone new especially very 
early in the relationship and all of a 
sudden they are ridiculously 
complimentary they shower you with gifts 
right before you ever even really know 
each other you know that's a good sign 
you've been loved bombed katherine do 
normal mortals also love bombers this 
exclusively in the category of people 
that are narcissistic you know with the 
narcissist you have to feed the 
narcissist constantly with a love bomber 
you can never be appreciative enough you 
can never be grateful enough 
