[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart taters welcome back to the podcast 
I'm so excited to talk to you today 
about the best way to start and end a 
date 
I would love to give you guys multiple 
choices as to what this would be if I 
could say the best way to start a date 
is a a handshake B sitting on somebody's 
lap see a hug or d none of the above I 
would love to see what you guys guessed 
so the answer is it's a hug 
this is not a business meeting 
it's a date and yes it's a stranger and 
yes I know that there are risks because 
there's lots of germs floating around uh 
pre-pandemic pandemic and post pandemic 
but if you are dating there's two ways 
to do hugs okay let me tell you why you 
should hug you should hug because 
it connotes warmth it connotes sincerity 
it connotes this is a personal meeting 
and it connotes that you aren't afraid 
of affection a handshake is super 
standard in our culture for business 
meetings and immediately when somebody 
sticks their hand out to shake your hand 
right our instinct is to reach our Hand 
by back and shake their hand instead I 
do this I'm a dating coach I'm a love 
coach so people extend their hand to me 
nine times out of ten whether it's a 
personal meeting or a professional 
meeting I'll say you know what I'm a 
hugger is that okay and they're like oh 
my gosh absolutely I have never ever 
ever been turned down for a hug when 
I've said I'm a hugger versus a 
handshake when I worked in the corporate 
world when I've had my own business when 
I'm at cocktail parties so there are 
times I want to handshake but it's very 
rare so you can if somebody wants to 
shake your hand you can try I'm a hugger 
is that okay and give them a hug instead 
it just shows people that you're warm 
you're engaging and that this is a date 
okay now let's talk about types of hugs 
I did Steve Harvey's show for Seven 
Seasons while it was on air and some of 
the funniest stuff that we did on the 
show was on The Cutting Room floor right 
because that's how TV production goes 
especially in daytime talk but we talked 
about on one episode 
starting the date with a hug and Steve 
said I want you guys to think about what 
Bella's saying start the date with a hug 
but think about the cousin hug and I 
started laughing like what is the cousin 
hog he's like it's how you would hug 
your cousin right you like your cousin 
you're excited you give your cousin a 
warm hug out of friendliness but it's a 
cousin hug right it's not a romantic 
intimate hug where you're touching 
pelvises and I of course started 
blushing and laughing so the cousin hug 
is the right way to think about hugging 
somebody when you get on a date pretend 
it's a cousin that you like and give 
this person a cousin hug if they say yes 
it's okay to do that so now if you're 
doing a video date a cute change up to 
this is turning on the date because you 
know it's Smart dating Academy we're big 
fans of the video date as soon as you 
get online what you can do is oh put 
your hands in a hug like oh I'm giving 
you a cyber hug because I'm a hugger 
super cute way to just chill the 
tensions of a video date as well which 
can be awkward so 
um that's what I would tell you about 
the best way to start and end a date the 
same way is with the hug do the cousin 
hug be excited and this also can get you 
out of if somebody wants to go in for a 
premature kiss nope just say I'm a 
hugger and give them a hug so I hope 
this helps you to have better dates have 
warmer dates have more positive dates 
and as always join the Smart dating 
Academy 
come in for a one-on-one consult we'll 
teach you how to hug yes we have taught 
people how to hug in our coaching 
practice because so many of us weren't 
taught to hug when we were little you 
don't want to do the hug with the 
padding on the back either I meant to 
mention that right so that's not a great 
hug it's sort of like wow I'm really 
awkward and I'm patting you on the back 
at the same time so join 
um join some art dating Academy come in 
if you need to learn how to hug haha 
join uh our database by filling out any 
contact form on our newsletter follow us 
on Instagram at smartdatingacademy and I 
can't wait for you to hear our next 
episode if you love it please review it 
please write something give us five 
stars little podcasters I'm little five 
foot two we need your love we need your 
support so thank you and have a great 
day 
