[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love smart daters 
welcome back to the podcast and this 
sweet mini episode where I'm going to 
tell you about what is a beige flag it 
we all know what red flags are sometimes 
I call Flags yellow or pink flags if 
we're not exactly sure they're red flags 
but it seems like it's like not really 
sure and then there's green flags right 
of the things you really want in your 
relationship that are going to make you 
happy now what is a beige flag so a 
couple of months ago I went on GMA on 
Good Morning America to talk about what 
a beige flag is and it was inspired by 
Tik Tock as so many new trends are so if 
you look up # beige Flags online there's 
hundreds of millions I think of views on 
beige Flags so what beige flags are is 
they started out a year ago where 
ticktockers would say beige flags were 
flags that somebody was really beige 
boring vanilla any of those things and 
for a side note I love vanilla ice cream 
um I don't find it boring at all and I 
wear a lot of beige as well so haha but 
beige flags were really to designate 
somebody that was a boring date but as 
beige flag started to get talked about 
more and more with ticktockers what we 
found is that the definition of a beige 
flag has morphed beige Flags what I 
talked about on GMA now means it's kind 
of a fun fact or something quirky about 
you or your partner so you can look up 
Tik Tock or on Instagram reals What are 
beig flags so for example example one of 
the ones I talked about on Good Morning 
America which happens to come from my 
19-year-old daughter and her sweet 
boyfriend we were talking about beige 
flags and both of my kids Max and Jaden 
are 15 and 19 they're all over Tik Tok 
they're like oh yeah we know what beige 
flags are so I said what would a beige 
flag be in your relationship and she 
said well when we watch scary movies I 
you know typically it's the girl that's 
supposed to go ah I'm scared right but 
instead he covers his ey eyes and puts 
his head in her shoulders so she said # 
beige flag my boyfriend puts his head in 
my on my shoulder and covers his eyes 
beige flag so now what we talked about 
on GMA which I think was a really 
interesting spin on this and what I want 
you to think about is okay let's say you 
can beige flag yourself like what are 
your own quirky endearing facts about 
yourself right something that's kind of 
funny like oh my you know beige flag for 
Bella is I don't like tomatoes I don't 
eat raw Tomatoes ever ever if I make 
salsa at home I blend the tomatoes in my 
Vitamix with the cilantro and the onions 
and all of that but I don't like chunky 
Tomatoes if you're eating with me you'll 
see if there's a Capra salad I'll eat 
the barata so hash beige flag don't like 
raw Tomatoes like pureed Tomatoes love 
pizza sauce but that is my beige flag 
potentially now where could a beige flag 
potentially be a Harbinger for a red 
flag that's really the thing I want you 
to think about so let's 
say a hasht beige flag for your for 
somebody you're dating is oh he's always 
so hungry that he eats the last bite of 
anything that we share and never asks me 
if I want the last bite he's so hungry 
hahaa beige flat now okay that's a 
little strange a little not courteous 
right to eat the last bite without 
asking but we could beige flag it for 
the moment now where that beige flag 
could ostensibly become a red flag is if 
you start to see more signs of this 
person who eats the last bite being 
selfish across a variety of different 
arenas for example if this person when 
you're out at a restaurant only orders 
order for you and orders what they want 
to eat right all strange so just people 
that seem to be me me me me me and 
everything is about me and what I want 
that beige flag would turn into a red 
flag so beige Flags fun fact about 
yourself can be light doesn't like 
chunky Tomatoes great what's your beige 
flag do you have a beige flag we all 
have beige Flags fun facts about 
ourselves right now when when you're 
dating looking out for somebody's quirks 
right could it be a beige flag could it 
turn into a red flag so keep these 
things in mind and if it's ever a 
question sign up for a consultation with 
us at Smart dating academy.com because 
these are the things that we do we 
listen to your situation for 30 or 60 
Minutes depending on what feels good to 
you and we can help you determine are 
you in a beige flag are you in a red 
flag is this your picker all over again 
so I hope this gave you a really 
thorough explanation of what a beige 
flag is versus a red flag and can a 
beige flag turn into a red flag so um if 
you like this episode rate it give us 
five stars we're looking for more great 
rating so we want to share our knowledge 
and we want to continue to do what we're 
what we've been doing for you for going 
on two years now so help us out spread 
the love share this podcast with people 
you love give us a rating listen more we 
love you and until next time I bid you a 
day filled with psychotic optimism and 
wonderful things happening to 
you 
