welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
excited to talk to you about what time 
of year this is 
you're probably thinking okay it's 
Christmas it's New Year's no it's 
something way more than that it's 
Peak dating season now you might think 
to yourself is there really a pig dating 
season and the answer is a resounding oh 
yes there is and you are about to hear 
all about it now what is Peak dating 
season so 
in 2012 I started Consulting with match 
and they have shared lots of data not 
just with me but with everybody in 
general so they've been looking at data 
since the 90s about how cyclical online 
dating is and so what happens starting 
December 26th every year year over year 
like two decades more than two decades 
worth of data now is the holidays drive 
people into a dating mindset thus the 
name cuffing season right you want 
someone that you get cuffed to 
handcuffed to and you're in a committed 
exclusive relationship but we have these 
cuffing instincts around the holidays 
maybe it's driven because we don't want 
Aunt Mildred to say to us well are you 
still single Bella what's going on when 
are you going to meet somebody are you 
still being so picky or maybe you're 
just looking at the tree and all the 
happy couples around you think King 
when am I going to find the lid to my 
cute little pot so those things 
certainly drive people to start thinking 
about dating the day after Christmas but 
then what ends up happening what do we 
do on January 1st 
we make New Year's resolutions we're 
going to level up our lives right new 
year new me and what am I gonna do now 
take a step back 
the U.S census data tells us that there 
are a hundred and eighteen million 
single adults in this country that's 48 
of the adult population so now you've 
got almost half of America 
January 1 
single what do you think they're going 
to resolve 
getting back out into the dating pool oh 
my kids are telling me I need to try 
dating apps and I've never done that I'm 
fresh out of divorce should I do this is 
this my year maybe I lost my spouse five 
years ago and I'm just feeling like I 
might be ready and so the new year 
brings out these these instincts in us 
where we want to do things differently 
and commit to ourselves and commit to 
loving ourselves in a new way so these 
two things result in Peak dating season 
so Peak lasts from December 26 and 
really on the books goes until 
Valentine's Day so the busiest online 
dating day of the year was Sunday 
January 2nd and match had it mapped down 
to the busiest moment was like 8 52 p.m 
Eastern Standard time but we're now 
listening to this and we're you know 
through the middle of January and all is 
not lost you still have time to take 
advantage of peak dating season right 
and it's kind of good the holidays are 
over maybe you've paid off your credit 
card bills you can think about investing 
a little bit in yourself at this point 
and thinking about what you want who do 
you want what are you looking for this 
time around right and really thinking 
doing a deep dive into your own 
checklist are you operating off of the 
right checklist how do you have a 
checklist right do you know what red 
flags are what are the green flags what 
gets people sifted in what gets them 
thrown out so you want to do a little 
internal Deep dive with yourself to 
really know with Clarity who you are 
what you want at this point in your life 
what a good partner for you looks like 
and I'm not talking about physically 
looks like I'm talking about who a good 
lid to your pot actually is like a lid 
in a pot they actually fit together 
right and and it could be a tempered 
glass lid it could be a cast iron lid it 
could be a dented steel lid whatever it 
is there's many Lids to your pot but how 
do you want to feel when you're with 
this person and have you accepted bad 
people into your dating life maybe 
you've been divorced maybe you were 
broken up with maybe you haven't dated 
in a long time because you're afraid and 
you've built walls around yourself 
what's going on and if you need help 
seek help from professionals guys 25 
years ago I I've been married for almost 
25 years I would have given my eye teeth 
to have a dating coach to have a 
therapist to have somebody around me 
that could help me with this if you need 
help with this seek out the help to make 
sure that you're not going to do the 
same things over and over again okay 
once you have a support system around 
you maybe you've got a coach maybe 
you've got a therapist maybe you've got 
me and our Instagram wives and this 
podcast and and your friends what I want 
you to do is number one 
get yourself into the right mindset and 
you know what that mindset is called 
it's called psychotic optimism yes I 
said it psychotic optimism what does 
that mean it means I want you to think 
about your dating life as if you've 
already achieved love okay love exists 
for me it's a when it's not an if I know 
that the lid to my pot is out there and 
all I have to do is date like crazy to 
find this person okay but psychotic 
optimism knows that there's going to be 
ups and downs to this process and that's 
why I use the word psychotic okay 
optimistic even in the face of being 
ghosted not hearing from anybody that 
you've messaged people standing you up 
okay all of that but you still maintain 
that fire in your belly that flame that 
spark in your heart that says love is 
out there for me and I know it and I 
know that this dating and being out 
there and looking for my boo is just 
part of my journey and this is part of 
my story okay and so along with being 
psychotically optimistic what you're 
going to do is the reciprocal of that 
get rid of the negative thoughts get rid 
of the Mind monkeys stop telling 
yourself man I'm too old my mom was 
right I'm too damaged I've had too many 
partners I have too many kids I'm too 
fat I live in a rural town I'm too old 
whatever it is I'm too bald I'm too 
short whatever it is that you are 
saddling yourself with concrete blocks 
on your shoulders and on your shoes I 
want you to take those things off I want 
you to strip yourself of those negative 
things that you're telling yourself and 
I want you to bathe yourself in optimism 
think about all of the amazing things 
that you are the things that you will 
bring to this romantic partnership you 
are going to be a great lid to somebody 
pot and you're fun and you're exciting 
and you're reliable and you're 
consistent and you're always growing and 
you're a learner because you wouldn't be 
listening to me and listening to this 
podcast if you were get psychotically 
optimistic and start to rid yourself of 
the Mind trash that you're telling 
yourself because our minds are all baked 
in with this negativity bias right the 
negativity bias wants to keep us stuck 
where we are it wants to keep us doing 
the same thing over and over again why 
not because it's an evil mind it's a 
mind that wants to keep us safe and not 
hurt and not disappointed and not 
heartbroken right and so it keeps us 
safe by telling us these bad stories but 
I want you to strip yourself of those 
shackles get rid of those concrete shoes 
get rid of those concrete blocks on your 
shoulders and I want you to tell 
yourself love exists for me it's a when 
it's not an if and I want you to take 
that fervor and that psychotic optimism 
with you all day today always week while 
you're listening to this and I want you 
to take some action okay so thing number 
one to do for Peak dating season now 
that you know what it is is to become a 
psychotic Optimist and I think Steve 
Harvey calls me the Fairy Godmother of 
dating and I the Fairy Godmother of 
dating and am officially inducting you 
into the club of psychotic optimists at 
Smart dating Academy so I hope you're 
laughing I have a magic wand and I'm 
gonna bring it out on another episode 
I'm gonna cast a spell on all of you and 
make you permanently psychotically 
optimistic so now let's get down to the 
brass tacks Peak dating season what do I 
do online dating memberships are up 50 
to 80 percent right I want you to think 
about either if you're not out there at 
all pick one or two if you're brand new 
to this just do one okay and if you're 
out there already maybe you've got five 
six different apps on your phone Bumble 
hinge Tinder match eHarmony limit down 
to one or two okay and now if I had five 
dollars for every person that asked me 
Bella 
what's the best site to be on 
what I'm going to tell you is there is 
no one perfect site all of the sites 
have good people all of the sites have 
meh people that are not going to be for 
you you have to look at online dating as 
the world's largest cocktail party 
and all of these apps 
are like rooms at the cocktail party 
you want to be at the party and you can 
go room to room and try different apps 
right I like big sites and big apps 
because we're trying to maximize our 
chances of meeting the lid to our pot so 
you might as well have a big Haystack to 
look for your needle and then a little 
Haystack right so you know what I'm 
saying because if it's really a small 
super nichy site maybe you know it's for 
you know 
tall tall singles that are over six feet 
tall how many tall tall singles are 
there going to be because the research 
shows that only 12 to 14 percent of men 
in this country are over six feet tall 
and the average American woman is only 
five foot five so now think about that 
denominator you're gonna have a really 
really small group of people or on 
gluten-free singles or things like that 
you might find people that have similar 
habits or similar interests but you're 
not going to find that wide swath of 
people that you would at any massive 
event so pick one or two big sites or 
apps to be on okay so that was Point 
number two now Point number three is 
here's where we get really really into 
the weeds you guys what is going to make 
you successful is having great photos 
I need you to have six amazing photos 
and if you don't know what good photos 
look like I want you to go to 
smartdatingacademy.com go to the profile 
or photos page go to our inspiring 
stories on our site and you'll see lots 
of before and after photos you need to 
have six amazing photos what most people 
do is they pick six of the best photos 
that they have in their phone which I'm 
telling you most likely aren't that 
great sorry to say it don't shoot the 
messenger I do sessions with people all 
day long seven days a week and what 
people typically are so excited to show 
me that have come out of their phones 
and their tripods they're not the 
quality that the best of the best are 
putting out there and I'm telling you if 
you look at the stuff we're putting out 
there it's the top one percent of the 
one percent you want to be in that 
category if you can so five to six great 
photos now you've got to have great 
headshots and great body shots okay by a 
great headshot I mean a photo that's 
maybe up to your shoulders that shows 
you looking right at the camera smiling 
high resolution no Shadows on your face 
nobody else blurred out nobody else in 
your photos you and only you where you 
look engaging you want to make eye 
contact with this person that's looking 
at your photos on these sites or apps 
you want them to stop and look at you 
and go oh this person looks interesting 
I love this photo he or she looks so 
cute and so genuine and sincere let me 
look in for more and that'll get you the 
right swipe or the message on a site 
like match so you want six great photos 
now your opening headshot is the most 
important shot but then ladies and 
gentlemen 
you need to have body shots okay I mean 
full body head to knees Head to Toes 
people want to see what you look like 
put that cute self out there don't tell 
me you've gained the covid-19 who hasn't 
okay nobody ever thinks they're cute the 
way they are or perfect the way they are 
your Fairy Godmother is here to tell you 
you are perfect just the way you are 
judge yourself up okay that's the other 
thing you don't want to look like you've 
been couch surfing all day or you just 
came back from a long run and you're 
sweaty and gross you want to look like 
you're dressed to impress dress up 
really nicely in your photos women 
wear dresses wear skirts look girly wear 
a cute pair of jeans with a cute top 
pencil skirts tend to photograph best 
belts show off your figure remember 
you're a smart dater we're not going for 
hot we're going for pretty or elegant 
and gentlemen step it up throw on the 
sport coats throw on the suits women 
like to see a man with the plan and if 
you're a man looking for a man same 
thing who doesn't want to see a stepped 
up man ties are fine hell wear a tuxedo 
whatever it is and if you say well I 
don't normally look like that I'm 
telling you you want to dress yourself 
up in these photos and dress yourself up 
for dates why not show the other person 
that you respect yourself and you 
respect them even if you live in a warm 
climate 
put on a suit put on a sport coat do the 
thing trust me we have tons of data 
around this that shows that when you 
look like you're the man or the woman 
that takes themselves seriously and you 
respect yourself and you know how to 
look your best you will get a much 
greater response okay so enough about 
photos and the last thing is oh well 
enough about photos I can never say 
enough about photos you guys I want you 
to have six great photos all in 
different outfits don't take photos of 
yourself professional photos in your 
favorite red sweater and post six of 
those that is not what I mean these 
photos have to have different 
backgrounds different outfits what we do 
at our professional photo shoots at 
Smart dating Academy we stage all those 
shots even though they look like oh my 
God those are the best photos I've ever 
seen we do those quickly at our shoots 
if you want to replicate something like 
that you do you Boo and go do that or 
obviously you can enlist us and hire us 
to do that for you but you want to make 
these these photos look Dynamic exciting 
like somebody just caught you in the 
moment No Gray backdrops no LinkedIn 
photos and please for the love of me do 
not have photos that do not look like 
the current version of you do not show 
me a photo of you five hair Shades ago 
do not show me a photo of you with a lot 
more hair than you have now do not show 
me a photo of what you look like 20 
pounds ago and whether that's you've 
gained weight or you've lost weight 
people want to date the person in the 
picture your photo should be no more 
than one year old yes I did a session 
with the girl today who said but I look 
the same in this photo's three years old 
I said to her you don't look the same 
I'm looking at you I do this for a 
living you think you look the same the 
data shows guys lots of psychological 
research that we do not pick the best 
photos of ourselves enlist somebody to 
help you whether you've got that 
objective friend that will tell you the 
truth your crew of people your village 
maybe it's your therapist if they'll go 
there maybe it's a coach have someone 
objective tell you what your best photos 
are because we do not pick the best 
photos of ourselves I ask my husband I 
ask my kids I asked the people that work 
with me for me my friends which photos 
look best and they pick and I'll tell 
you what it's very rarely the ones I 
will pick okay so that is what I have to 
say about photos I have a lot more to 
say but for purposes of peak dating 
season and this podcast and all the 
other stuff that I want to get through 
for you to really Master peek look the 
majority of your success with online 
dating on the outside on the inside 
there's a whole lot of other stuff that 
we need to talk about right like mindset 
green flags red flags for women we call 
them high GHQ guys understanding who 
your high GHQ guy is and what those red 
flags are but uh externally what's going 
to result in the majority of your 
success in online dating are your photos 
so invest in a great set of photos don't 
think you can do this on your own we run 
these love lab workshops and people 
submit photos to us none of their photos 
that they do at home are ever ever as 
good as the ones that someone else will 
take for them professionally right and 
half of them end up coming to us to do 
their photos after the lab so photos are 
so so crucial okay then in your text now 
it's going to depend the text in your 
profile okay and that's the section 
where you can write about yourself free 
form right with Tinder or Bumble you get 
about 200 characters which is like a 
sentence or two basically but on a site 
like match it'll say tell me more about 
you in your own words right so you've 
got way more space to talk about 
yourself what I want to tell you is I 
could do an entire hour on how to write 
a profile in fact I wrote a book on how 
to produce the perfect work but how to 
produce the Perfect online profile for 
match and Bumble it's a book that we 
only give out our love lab workshops in 
our one-on-one coaching programs but 
what I can tell you is what you want to 
do is think about your online profile as 
a bunch of little tiny stories about 
yourself you know maybe like stringing 
together lots of vivid pictures of 
yourself tell me about your favorite 
trip to Ghana and what that means to you 
forever right what your you know what 
are some of the most noteworthy things 
you've experienced what do you do for 
work and instead of what do you do what 
do you love about your job what are you 
most passionate about think about 
yourself as a product in cyberspace and 
you want to differentiate yourself right 
you want to think about this from a 
marketing standpoint so instead of just 
saying I'm adventurous you can say I've 
hiked Mount Everest or for some people I 
am not that adventurous in hell if I'm 
ever going to hike up Everest or you 
know basically I can ski a Blue Mountain 
but that's about the level of my 
adventure there's no blacks for this 
girl in her future so talking about that 
like I'm a blue diamond skier for some 
people like Lindsay who works with me 
she's a helicopter skier they take that 
girl and plunk her down on a mountain 
and watch her sail down no thank you not 
for me but again level of 
adventurousness what is that for you 
what does that mean to you what do you 
do for fun right and really painting 
those pictures look at your sentences 
and close your eyes and say can I 
imagine this can I see what this looks 
like for someone else and filling your 
profile with those little one to two 
sentence kind of vignettes about 
yourself that show versus tell give the 
give the reader a lot of conversational 
starters for you as well it's so awkward 
to try to compose a message to someone 
that you might think is cute or 
interesting if they haven't said 
anything interesting in their profile 
give people something interesting to 
talk about right what do you like to 
watch what do you like to listen to what 
do you like to go what do you like to 
eat any of those things and you're 
probably sitting back and thinking to 
yourself I'm kind of boring I promise 
you you are not boring you are the 
farthest thing from boring every single 
person comes to me thinking I'm boring 
and I promise you you are not boring you 
are amazing you just need to think about 
yourself in a constructive and clever 
and creative way okay so that's how 
you're going to write your profile and 
what I want you to think about too is 
being really positive in your profile 
don't have any negative text don't talk 
about the gloom and doom of Omicron and 
what's going to happen with the pandemic 
and woe is me and all of the issues that 
you've had and most importantly don't 
put the things you're not looking for in 
your profile that sounded like a double 
negative but what I mean is you don't 
want to say please do not contact me if 
and list a string of negative things 
along because if you're putting negative 
energy out there what's going to come 
back to you negative people okay so you 
want to stay positive you want to stay 
specific Vivid and Lucid in your profile 
and it doesn't have to be a personal 
Manifesto right it just has to be 
something that's compelling playful 
specific that really sounds like you 
again have someone else look at your 
profile have someone else edit your 
profile maybe you've got friends that 
are great writers maybe you hire a 
professional writer hire a coach hire 
someone that can really help you with 
that it's like if you were gonna 
interview for you know change careers 
you probably wouldn't write your own 
resume right you'd want an updated 
current format that really positions you 
as the polished person you are and you 
would hire a professional to do that 
today all of these Services exist take 
advantage things you guys you don't need 
to do this alone okay you don't need to 
do this alone so now I've told you four 
things mindset picking apps one or two 
having six great photos and your profile 
text the fifth Point okay the final 
point that I'm going to leave you with 
is I want you to have a dating strategy 
and I want you to do this every single 
day okay at least for 30 days I want you 
to have 30 minutes a day 15 minutes in 
the morning and 15 minutes in the 
evening very very manageable do not tell 
me you cannot do that because I 
bellagondi will find 30 minutes in your 
day you guys you sleep for eight hours 
you are awake for 16 hours even if you 
work eight hours a day that leaves 
another eight hours of open awake time 
that you are not working I can find you 
15 minutes in the morning and 15 minutes 
in the evening to compose messages swipe 
message like people the sites like 
people that are active and they 
prioritize you in relevant people's 
searches and I want you to know that 
that nationally only 10 percent of 
messages that we write get responded to 
so if you're writing messages to people 
and you're not getting a response 9 out 
of ten messages don't get responded to 
don't take it personally don't say I 
suck don't say online dating is for the 
birds it's never worked for me shut it 
down and hibernate I'm telling you this 
is all normal I have a company that 
helps people to do this and we help 
people to stay motivated and accountable 
and inspired through this process so I 
promise you you are not alone in this 
and you're gonna have some fun during 
Peak dating season but you have to 
change things up I've given you tons of 
information here about the things to do 
concretely to get yourself Rick of peak 
dating season you do not have to wait 
okay switch things up the definition of 
insanity is doing the same thing over 
and over again right and expecting 
different results that that is 
impossible I've given you so many things 
that you could possibly change and I 
want you to take the bank do the things 
I'm telling you right if you are having 
real problems with this send a message 
to us smartdatingacademy.com we're an 
investment and you are worth every 
single investment that you want to make 
in yourself we invest in others we take 
care of others how often do we actually 
nourish educate and invest in ourselves 
you are worth it have someone help you 
through this process and Ace peek to it 
and follow us on Instagram follow us I 
do a lot of Instagram lives you can 
follow us at smartdating Academy on our 
YouTube channel and there's going to be 
lots of episodes that are going to help 
you with your dating life and to find 
love in a happy the happy way and find 
the lid to your pot and I promise you I 
am going to hold your hand through all 
of it and help you to find the lid to 
your pot 
see you soon 
