[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators welcome back to this week's 
podcast I've been asked to talk about 
this term called influ dating in the 
media I just recorded a segment with the 
Today Show that's going to air around 
Valentine's Day I did some stuff on news 
Nation I think 
um I can't even remember now maybe 
um NBC news as well but inflatating 
means inflation and dating this is the 
new little buzzword and what does it 
mean it means we as daters are thinking 
about inflation as we're dating now why 
is this relevant well it's relevant for 
most people that have to live within 
means right so most of us don't have 
unlimited budgets for dating or anything 
so 
um LendingTree did the survey earlier 
like in late 2022 with some interesting 
data and so here's some interesting 
little tidbits that came out of it 77 of 
daters say dating could be easier if 
they had more money right okay great 
um and this is more common amongst men 
83 than women 73 percent regardless 32 
percent said they'd still go on a date 
even if they couldn't pay for it with 
men more likely to do so than women 
now here's what's interesting nearly one 
in five 19 
of those who are dating say they're 
going on fewer dates because of 
inflation and another 14 say that they 
are concretely trying to spend less on 
dates and even more interesting 
Millennials right and those are I think 
you know 20 something to 40 is 
Millennials 
um they're more likely to incur debt 22 
percent of them because of their dating 
spending habits right and gen Z are the 
most second most likely now why are 
people going into debt right because of 
dates well think about it if you go on 
dates and everything is done with your 
phone right you have your Apple wallet 
it's your credit card or your venmoing 
it doesn't feel like real money so a lot 
of us overspend and maybe even go into 
debt because you don't want to look like 
the cheap skate you want to look cool 
you know maybe you're going to buy a 
round of drinks for everybody at the bar 
whatever it is 
um so what do you do to stay 
within your means during dating well one 
of the things and I was talking on The 
Today Show about this today is you've 
got to make dating a conscious effort 
and conscious across the board and you 
know how I feel about conscious dating 
but dating with a budget make a budget 
right the anchor Today 
named Vicky when said that daters on 
average spend something like 3 500 a 
year on dates now some people I work 
with that sounds low for other people 
that might sound crazy 
um but that's quite a bit of money for 
most people it's almost you know 250 
bucks a month on average right which 
sounds kind of reasonable kind of right 
especially if you're going on a couple 
of dates a week so the first thing to do 
is have a budget how much of what you 
make on a monthly basis do you want to 
allocate to dates right and now when you 
have a fixed pot of money that you're 
going to allocate to dates you know what 
it does it makes you date smarter and it 
makes you date more deliberately and 
you're going to be more choosy about 
who's actually going to get you in 
person and get your dinero and get your 
cash so 
um 
I think if you're worried about how to 
date in inflation you know maybe you've 
had pay cuts at work you have been laid 
off of work or you just want to make 
sure that you're being as prudent as you 
can one of the best things to do before 
you agree to go out with anybody on a 
date is do a video date with this person 
right people need to earn an in-person 
date with you all of the apps Bumble 
hinge Tinder match everybody has video 
built into the app suggest a video date 
right 15 to 30 minutes and if that goes 
well lather rinse repeat do it again do 
it again until you're comfortable yeah 
you know I'd like to grab coffee or a 
glass of wine or a meal with this person 
but you don't have to just go from one 
video date straight to in person when we 
talk with Kathy you know about eight 
weeks ago eight ten episodes ago how 
Kathy Found Love at 71 you can find that 
in the podcast 
um she and Reuben did eight video dates 
before they actually met in person so 
their ninth date and I put that in 
quotes was their first physical date and 
he drove three hours to come and see her 
now prior to that their video dates were 
hours long they talked about everything 
under the sun they did Arthur Aaron's 36 
questions right to see if you could fall 
in love with each other so you can use 
video really effectively and you know 
what 
with video you're not driving anywhere 
you're not incurring Uber fees or cab 
fees no parking right even if you go to 
coffee in most places you're gonna have 
to drive you don't have to do that so 
video is a great way to save lots of 
money and lots of time so the next thing 
you can do are budget friendly dates 
right you can do 
you can do a lot of things I mean after 
video dates everybody during covet had 
to get used to this right we started 
doing walks okay and we had lots of 
clients after video doing walking dates 
grabbing coffee go walk around Central 
Park go walk around Lincoln Park in 
Chicago go walk around a fun new 
neighborhood in whatever City you're in 
but if you grab coffee or juice or tea 
whatever it is you're drinking there's a 
few great benefits to this as a date 
okay so not it's inexpensive number one 
right so it keeps the inflation of your 
pocketbook down now 
you're also walking around outside with 
somebody so conversation becomes a lot 
easier right you've got the saxophone 
player you've got the little kids 
running down the street the crazy 
squirrel that looks like it's gonna jump 
on your head you have lots of 
conversational context to make easy 
conversation with you know your date 
who's ostensibly a total stranger and 
studies show that when we're side by 
side versus facing each other on dates 
we tend to have more real authentic 
conversations with each other right 
think about a stranger that you might be 
sitting next to on a plane or maybe 
you've gone on a road trip with a 
colleague from work and you feel so 
comfortable talking to this person 
because you're side by side you don't 
feel somebody staring into your soul so 
you can have better conversations that 
are more fun organic and more authentic 
because you're side by side and you're 
moving when we're moving and we're a 
little stressed because it's a date we 
generate adrenaline right and adrenaline 
is kind of fight or flighty and it makes 
us potentially feel attraction so 
there's so many advantages to doing 
walking dates even though we're not in 
covid anymore I love going for walks 
even with my coaching clients that live 
in Chicago 
I go on walks with a lot of them instead 
of picking up the phone and coaching 
we'll go walk a couple of laps around 
one of the parks downtown and we'll walk 
and coach and they're so fun and so 
effective and you're also getting steps 
in what's wrong with that nothing so do 
walking dates I love those kinds of 
dates and other inexpensive dates that 
you can go on go mini golfing go to a 
golf range right what's more fun when 
you're in the in the beginning phases of 
dating somebody I remember when I 
started dating somebody in high school 
we went to play mini golf it was so fun 
super low stakes not that expensive and 
fun a little competitive and you can 
just be silly and it's a great time on a 
budget right you can go to a driving 
range if the weather's good where you 
are and something that we talked about 
today one of the things back to video 
during covid when couples were long 
distance or when couples were going on 
dates you could cook dinner together you 
could pick a menu and cook dinner and 
have the person on FaceTime you'll be 
making dinner they'll be making dinner 
then you sit down and you eat together 
and so that's something that we 
shouldn't lose track of right cooking 
together can be a really fun date not in 
the beginning if you're a smart dater 
because we don't want to be in each 
other's spaces and kind of because that 
can if you go to somebody's house and 
there's wine and there's a bed you know 
what might happen so typically we're 
having our clients not go into each 
other's houses until you're exclusive or 
nearly exclusive until it seems like 
this is really gonna stick but cooking 
something together can be a really fun 
idea and it's low budget my daughter 
who's 18 was home for Christmas break 
and she and her boyfriend made two 
holiday pies together right because 
they're both kind of broke college 
students and when they ran out of money 
they were baking cookies of course I 
funded the raw materials for the cookies 
and the pie but that's a whole nother 
story but it was way less expensive than 
them going out to go buy one piece of 
pie right they made an entire pie and 
lots of cookies now 
what's also really fun is doing fun 
things like taking dance classes 
together those are inexpensive you can 
find meetup groups that offer dance 
lessons right where you'll not only get 
you'll not only dance and generate 
adrenaline but you'll meet hopefully 
lots of fun strangers that are a little 
adventurous right dancing is not for the 
weary so finding something like that and 
even if you're a couple and listening to 
this and you want to keep your date 
night fun but you also want to adhere to 
a budget take dance lessons right like 
that go to a Meetup Group go to a lot of 
bars and clubs have dance lessons like 
salsa dance lessons free on Thursday 
evenings so look for all of those kinds 
of things and Andy and I would also go 
to free museum days in Chicago the Art 
Institute has free days so we would take 
advantage of doing those things and you 
can always look up lists on all of your 
free favorite locations when they have 
free things that you can do and if 
you're going on dates also right after 
you've done video instead of saying okay 
let's go meet out for dinner look up 
some spots that have great happy hour 
specials lots of places on off nights 
Tuesdays Wednesdays Thursdays have 
half-price drinks half price appetizers 
and for a first second or third date you 
can keep those dates to less than two 
hours and you can keep them within a 
budget if you get there a little early 
maybe 4 30 5 o'clock have the happy hour 
specials and then you're done by seven 
o'clock right and then you can go home 
and make your dinner and stay within 
your budget 
um 
one of the last things I'll tell you was 
an idea that I came up with today is 
taking your credit card points so many 
of us have loyalty points that just sit 
around and lots of credit card points 
and maybe we're not traveling but these 
points just sit around look into the 
points that you have and see what they 
can be converted into right I go to some 
restaurant chains in Chicago and when I 
look at how much I have I might have two 
hundred dollars in bonus dollars that I 
could use for a great date night with 
Andy look at the points that you're 
collecting on your credit cards on your 
loyalty points and see if you can 
convert those into points that you can 
use at restaurants on dates or to do the 
things that you love as well so remember 
to stay you know inflating I hope that 
we all date consciously we all date with 
the budget in mind make yourself a 
budget and then stick to your budget do 
video right and the more video you do 
the more Discerning you can be with the 
people that are going to actually earn 
you in person then you can go on the 
Walking dates you can go to happy hour 
dates you can pick free museum nights go 
play mini golf go to a carnival oh and 
one other thing 
and she loved this I said when we first 
got married we loved Modern Art and we 
couldn't afford 25 or 30 000 for a giant 
piece of art and we like these big 
canvases that were like four feet by six 
feet so what we did is we started buying 
canvases at art stores and acrylic 
paints and we started painting our own 
canvases and we got into this so much 
that like Friday nights we would come 
home after work and we would both change 
into our painting clothes and we would 
just start painting and it was so fun 
and to this day we have many of the 
paintings hanging in our house that we 
did back in the day so that's a super 
fun thing that you can do together as a 
couple or even on a date grab some 
paints grab some little canvases and be 
creative together stimulate yourself in 
really good creative ways and dates can 
get more interesting and not break your 
your budget so if your budget allows ha 
ha get do a consultation with us maybe 
see if you're a candidate for our VIP 
one-on-one coaching program because 
that's where you will make serious 
progress and as always follow me on 
Instagram for more free tips and until 
next week I will see you soon 
