God you know this is my favorite time of 
year because something amazing happens 
at this time of year and I want to help 
you get ready for Peak dating season I'm 
bringing you Lindsay the Superstar of 
Insider secrets to dating let's empty 
our brains out for all these beautiful 
people globally that want to know what 
the hell is Peak dating season and why 
we're here we joke it always follows 
like the weight loss Trends you know if 
you try to go to the gym in the 
beginning of January you are like 
pushing people off the treadmill left 
and right the classes are full all of 
the regular people are like who are all 
these strangers in my class same thing 
happens online people get excited if 
they think thought about trying dating 
before and they haven't been on the 
sites they'll jump on like gangbusters 
if they've taken a break for a while 
they get right back on because everybody 
is ready to do something fresh I think 
it makes it so us were fun 
