[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Grande the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love okay so when 
you guys have the same questions 17 
times I figure it is my duty and 
obligation to you dear listener to 
answer your question 
people are all over the question what is 
love bombing have I been love bombed am 
I a love bomber and I have a guest today 
Dr Catherine Helm who's a professor of 
psychology and director of graduate 
programs in counseling at Lewis 
University so guys she's a heavy hitter 
and she is not only going to define the 
hell out of what is love bombing but we 
are going to compare that and contrast 
that to what is a love bomber versus a 
love Seeker so put your seat belts on 
y'all because we are ready for a ride 
and with that Catherine welcome to the 
Smart dating Academy podcast we are so 
happy to have you here thank you Bella 
I'm so glad to be here 
all right let's jump right into this we 
hear the word we've talked a lot you and 
I talked about narcissists what's a 
narcissist what's just you know someone 
who's a jerk or an and we right 
but tell us about 
his love bombing 
yeah see love mommy is interesting 
because you know it when you felt it 
right so the original term was coined in 
the 1970s and it was used to get people 
involved with the cult wait what yeah 
what wait what love is yes meant to get 
people into a cult that is insane it is 
it is and if you've ever gone on a date 
with someone new you know especially 
very early in the relationship and all 
of a sudden they're ridiculously 
complementary they shower you with gifts 
right before you ever even really know 
each other you know that's a good sign 
you've been love bombed 
wow and 
I mean let me ask you this 
how do you know 
if someone is just clueless and they've 
read too many Romance Books let's say 
it's a dude just for example and let's 
say he's he's just coming in he's coming 
in hot yeah and he's a romance he's a 
romantic or is he a love bummer like how 
like what's the difference how do we 
tell oh so that's a great question right 
and then sometimes the answer is in the 
eye of the beholder right so let me kind 
of sort of unpack this a little bit and 
talk even more about what love bombing 
is so some of those characteristics so 
you know love bombing the love bomber is 
often more interested in themselves than 
the other person it's often about the 
image right and it the love bombing Act 
is really designed to get you know the 
other person indebted to them so they 
come across as all consuming you know 
they seek to completely dominate the 
other person's social world so it's not 
just gifts and excessive compliments but 
it's really about power and control 
right and once those you know gifts are 
coming in excessive compliments and you 
know this person thinks you're wonderful 
um but one of the pieces that's missing 
right so we're talking today about love 
bombing versus love seeking right so the 
romantic guy as you described was kind 
of clueless but not a love bomber would 
be open to input 
okay okay that's a very good distinction 
so give me a scenario Catherine where he 
is open for input like tell our 
listeners because I'm sure we're all 
sitting here going have I been love bomb 
was that love bombery ask whatever the 
adjective is or is this just someone 
who's clueless and trying too hard 
right right so here's here's a scenario 
you know Bella I'm going to ask you when 
you go to a restaurant 
does your husband order for you or do 
you order for yourself 
I order for myself and I'll say after 25 
years of marriage I personally sort of 
wish that he could order for me but 
that's a whole sidebar discussion like 
do you do you know what I would eat in 
general like my girlfriends could all 
order for me right but matters I'd be 
joking I'm joking but no at 100 he would 
let me order he would give me agency to 
order what I wanted to order what if 
you're on a first date with him and he's 
not your husband of course and he orders 
for you 
I would be like oh that's interesting 
are you gonna eat all of that because 
that's not what I wanted yes so that's a 
sign that you've been loved Bob you 
weren't asked right it's not like it's a 
French restaurant you know and you don't 
speak French and he does right so it's 
really about power and control 
um the love bomber feels good about 
himself or herself 
when they do all of these acts it's 
about them it's not about you so one of 
the ways to know if you're being love 
bomb is does this person take input from 
you or do they just assume what you want 
so love bombing you know the person's 
making all kinds of assumptions that 
they're not checking out with you 
boundaries are being broken and most 
people are really uncomfortable with it 
okay I love this so if now if we snap 
back to you I'm on a first date with 
let's say it's Andy my husband or 
someone else just anybody and if he says 
you know we will have uh you know the 
pate and the foie gras and blah blah 
blah now if I'm a little confused at 
this point I could say 
um I'd like to also add a couple of 
things to that now a good response would 
be he's like oh my God absolutely I come 
here so often that these are like the 
two best things but absolutely order 
something else that would be a potential 
that would get him out of the red flag 
love bombery category maybe and put him 
into the hmm he takes input and didn't 
you know blow a lid about this that's 
right and so you you know when your 
first dating someone you want it or most 
people want it to be somewhat 
collaborative right and so it's about 
learning what those boundaries are 
together everybody makes mistakes even 
the love Seekers make mistakes right so 
going back to our you know good-hearted 
guy who really wants to make an 
impression and he's let's say a hopeless 
romantic you might see similar things 
you might see you know these 
over-the-top gestures but usually the 
person will check in with you right and 
if you're feeling uncomfortable and you 
say something they'll feel really like 
oh my gosh I can't believe I did that 
I'm so sorry you know but usually what 
happens with the love bombers they might 
get angry 
you know this is the ugly side of love 
right 
um they might you know call you 
ungrateful 
outing Behavior oh so if he ordered the 
foie gras and the Pate let's say and 
those aren't my favorite things if I 
said could I add a veggie or two to that 
he would cross his arms and he would be 
mad at me 
could very well be for sure but you're 
going to tend to get a negative response 
with the love bombers you know love 
bombers because remember the act of Love 
bombing is not about you it's about the 
other person kind of showing off 
dominating 
um when those efforts are not met with 
like oh my gosh that's amazing you're 
wonderful they tend to get angry or feel 
superficially hurt or get offended 
become defensive 
and Catherine do normal Mortals also 
love bombers this exclusively in the 
category of people that are narcissistic 
it's a good sign of narcissism okay 
however you know I think we're talking 
about an important thing because 
sometimes it is difficult to know who is 
your hopeless romantic that just kind of 
got it wrong right versus Your Love 
bombers so what happens with the love 
bomber is over time those gestures dry 
up very quickly 
oh okay so they come on strong they come 
on very very strong and it's almost like 
there's you know like with narcissism 
you know with the narcissist you have to 
feed the narcissist constantly right so 
with a love bomber you know you can 
never be appreciative enough you can 
never be grateful enough 
um right so they are a cousin of the 
narcissist well they're they're often 
one in the same they're one of the 
narcissists of um love bomb first 
and you say yeah and I'm I'm thinking 
about our conversations and you say love 
bombers like this is all like they're 
coming on strong they're filling up your 
cup overflowing your cup but it's meant 
to entrap you potentially to dominate 
control talk a little bit about that 
like what's the end game yeah so the end 
game is to control you 
the end game is to show dominance and 
some psychologists believe it's even 
indicative of a cycle of abuse right 
where the love bomber can do things like 
isolate you from your friends and family 
over time right because the love bomber 
wants to be the Center of Your World 
they may get offended when you go out 
with your friends without you know he or 
she but they want to be your center of 
everything which is really unhealthy 
and it sounds suffocating yes so in the 
beginning these gestures maybe you feel 
special right you feel like wow this 
person is really into me you know I've 
never had this before but you know those 
gestures don't stop they might get even 
more and more extravagant and you get 
really uncomfortable with them but the 
love bomber is not interested in your 
feelings and they're usually not very 
good listeners either 
so is there something that you can tell 
you know dear listener like if this 
happens you might be being love bombed 
like are there certain phrases you hear 
certain Telltale things that they do 
like straight out of the love bombers 
Playbook yes so they say I love you 
really quickly they might start talking 
about a long-term commitment very early 
in the relationship 
um they're gonna feel too good to be 
true they're excessive way over the top 
constantly complimenting you and again 
what happens is usually people who are 
being loved bomb eventually it gets 
really uncomfortable right and so in 
dating you know and belly you talk about 
this all the time you want to pay 
attention to your instincts if something 
doesn't feel very good the chances are 
it's not very good they're too good to 
be true 
and you know where it gets so gray 
Catherine you're right I mean we we work 
on this a lot with our clients at Smart 
dating Academy it's when we come in when 
let's say men and women will come to us 
and they're cups they're metaphorical 
your cup is so empty and it seems like 
there's a hole in the bottom of it like 
Ain't Nothing Gonna Fill that cup up 
right and suddenly somebody comes along 
with a big piping hot you know 
vat of coffee and they're just pouring 
you a bottomless Cup right and for and 
for people that have been 
in abusive relationships or they've been 
in relationships with avoidance where 
they've been iced out or stonewalled or 
had no communication had no physical 
affection Love bombing almost seems like 
it comes straight out of the movies like 
this is what love is supposed to be like 
it's supposed to be passionate and 
extravagant and big right from the 
beginning and this is where so many 
people I think get trapped well it's 
like sex in the movies I mean it doesn't 
really look like that does it Ah hell no 
no like everybody has an orgasm at the 
same time it's like the perfect 
Orchestra no bodily fluids nothing 
that's not real and the love bomber is 
not actually real either right and soon 
they begin to make demands of you too 
but I want to go back to something you 
said there's a difference between 
filling your cup and over filling your 
cup and the love bomber constantly seeks 
to overfill your cup 
and then the gestures dry up really 
quickly they just stop 
wow it's like they're trying to take you 
off your game and it's like uber 
seductive and then it stops and you're 
like Hey where's the coffee flowing out 
of that flowing out of that big carafe 
and it's like it was imaginary coffee it 
was never real that's exactly right it's 
exactly right and again the little 
farmer doesn't want your input 
they don't actually care about you and 
don't seek to know who you are you're 
again going back to our hopeless 
romantic you know who just kind of gets 
it wrong or maybe gets the boundaries 
wrong this person actually cares and 
they're open to making change 
and collaborating with you 
I love that and that's a perfect segue 
we were talking about love bombers 
versus love Seekers so love bombing 
let's just suffice it to say is wrong 
it's bad it might feel good in that 
moment it's like you know what people 
might describe is like a hit of heroin 
or cocaine I don't know I've never done 
a drug I have no clue but that it feels 
really really good that instant hit but 
then it feels really really bad the next 
day so it sounds like if love bombing 
makes you feel like you're on top of the 
world and it feels almost too good to be 
true most likely it is too good to be 
true absolutely it is absolutely too 
good to be true so while you're feeling 
really good at the moment 
you have to typically remember what 
might come next and when those gestures 
disappear so our love Seekers you know 
our hopeless Romantics those gestures 
typically don't disappear and then they 
use input they may notice that you like 
something like I like the color green 
and so maybe they give you you know 
something that's green that you really 
like wear a love bomber 
just care what you like 
because it's about them it's about the 
gesture 
and if a love bomber does listen to what 
you like and deliver that it's still 
just a tactic of manipulation it has to 
throw you off your game if I I'm gonna 
devour you I'm gonna listen to you like 
I have never listened to anybody before 
because I want to get to know you know 
what you love so I can push your buttons 
and control you yeah so you say it's 
emotionally manipulative it's 
performative these are performing 
gestures and these gestures bring them 
the attention that they need it's not 
really about you 
right right and they just want to get 
what you want so let's talk about the 
good people let's talk about a love 
Seeker what is a love Seeker well and I 
don't know I'd like to think we're all 
love Seekers but amen I am really in a 
dating relationship you know this is 
somebody who you know wants to feel good 
about themselves and about you and about 
the relationship so they're interested 
in getting to know who you are they're 
interested in building a genuine 
connection with you right and possibly 
even and hopefully a longer term 
commitment but again the difference 
between love bomber love Seekers a love 
seeker can be more collaborative they 
take input and they're interested into 
getting to know who you are hopefully 
our love Seekers have a solid sense of 
self a love bomber typically does not 
have a solid sense itself right yeah so 
let's say if I'm a dater 
and I write in my profile my favorite 
flowers are 
hydrangeas and peonies and if my first 
date shows up with the cute little 
bouquet of hydrangeas and peonies that 
that isn't necessarily being love bombed 
is it because I can guess a lot of 
people will go okay is this opening up 
the floodgates to somebody who's gonna 
love by me like what do you say to 
someone like that well when you said 
that I just thought oh how sweet right 
right one bouquet of flowers on a first 
date I mean wouldn't most of us be 
Charmed by that super Charmed if you go 
on a date with someone and then the next 
day you know 
buckets of flour start showing up then 
you might be being Love Bob right yeah 
right the appropriate gesture versus the 
over the top gesture is a big difference 
and if the if you're a romantic guy or 
girl is over the top and they get 
feedback like oh this is too much 
they'll dial it back 
yeah exactly and this is a little bit of 
a side note guys that are listening to 
this but if someone seems like it might 
be a little much but they're a love 
Seeker this is where your adeptness as 
an emotionally healthy dater is going to 
come into play if something seems a 
little much to you don't flip out on the 
person don't come off I always tell our 
clients assume positive intent in 
people's actions before you take the 
negative story right so if somebody 
gives you a bouquet of flowers let's say 
we'll go back to me and if it's 
hydrangeas and peonies and if I feel 
like wow that was like a big bouquet it 
wasn't a little bouquet like it took up 
the table big right now at that moment 
let's assume that the boy is open for 
input and he's a love Seeker you can say 
this was so amazing and so so thoughtful 
and it's like incredibly extravagant and 
I'm touched and just know I would love 
to go out with you again and you do not 
need to do these things all the time I'm 
so Charmed and I love this so you can 
deliver that message with white gloves 
versus crossing your arms and saying 
that was a little much I think I don't 
need that again right because guess what 
you're not going to get you ain't gonna 
get the bouquet of flowers you're not 
going to get the second date because 
your feelings hurt right so when in 
doubt assume positive intent deliver 
your message with Grace now how do you 
know okay well if I deliver my message 
with Grace remember what Catherine said 
the love bomber does not take input 
he'll be like are you ungrateful you 
don't appreciate that I did this are you 
telling me what to do for the next 
several days 
danger Will Robinson that is a love 
bomber in the room 
yeah and you know here's the other thing 
too the love Seeker also likes to 
receive romantic gestures the love 
bomber not so much 
oh interesting so a lot of bombers they 
just want a bomb they don't want to be 
bummed no they don't want to be Bob 
because they that's not they get it's 
about power and control of you 
that's their game that's if they don't 
want you to play in their game no you 
don't get to play their game nope 
so only one person has the baseball 
fella oh oh okay I was gonna say maybe I 
would have to bring him a bigger bouquet 
of flowers the next 
yeah see what happens when you do that 
oh my gosh that is 
um so 
how do you know I guess you know I I'm 
thinking to myself to give people this 
Crystal Clarity you know you've been 
love bombed if it feels like it's too 
much and the person doesn't react well 
to you even if you deliver your message 
with love and assuming positive intent 
right and so let me ask you what should 
you do 
if this sounds resonant and if you feel 
like oh my god I think I'm in a new 
dating relationship with a love bomber 
what do you do 
yeah that's a great question so one you 
know I think you have to be honest and 
say I'm not ready for this I appreciate 
the gestures you know but this is kind 
of too much for me and pretty soon 
actually it'll come to an end the person 
may get very angry but once those 
gestures aren't appreciated the love 
bombers not being fed 
right and so oftentimes they may go off 
and find somebody else another victim 
yes yes now in you know let's talk a 
little bit about the dark side or the 
ugly side of Love bombing right it's 
indicative of narcissism sometimes it's 
indicative of abuse and sometimes the 
love bomber gets really angry especially 
if those gestures have gone on for a 
while I spent all this money on you who 
do you think you are right and so pretty 
soon the veneer comes off and all of 
those over-the-top gestures stuff and 
you will know that you've been love bomb 
because the love bomber will not 
continue it endlessly they can't for 
something no 
no and is there a point Catherine where 
the love bombing stops and it switches 
like what is that point 
yeah and it might be different for every 
love bomber but remember that the love 
Barbara is a very jealous person they 
don't want other people to compete for 
your attention right so one way to stop 
a love bomber is to maintain your own 
active life you don't just shut things 
down right and start focusing only on 
this one person 
that's another way to know you've been 
loved Bob because if you start giving 
things up you're feeding love bombing 
behavior and you're basically saying 
look this is okay I'm uncomfortable with 
this even if you are not 
yeah and you know it's funny like the 
tightrope walk which I know you're you 
and I are familiar with with the work 
that we do is you know a lot of the 
research points to the fact that men 
fall in love faster and harder than 
women do right we're more Discerning it 
takes us longer and so and so I work 
with this with our coaching clients all 
the time at Smart dating Academy it's 
like what is you know 
it's okay that he wants to get exclusive 
with you sooner than you want to it's 
okay that he might invite you to his 
house in Cabo it's okay that he you know 
brings you pretty earrings right but 
what you have to put the boundaries 
around it and you have to say that is 
such a beautiful gesture that you gave 
me these diamond earrings and I would 
love to accept them at some point when 
our relationship is exclusive you know 
and then you can give that person the 
hurdles maybe it's I would you know and 
take the accountability on yourself I 
don't want to rush into something and 
while this is incredibly lovely let's 
hold on and when somebody that's good 
for you is going to respond to that and 
they're gonna say okay you know a couple 
of episodes ago dear listener if you 
heard we told the story of the 15-day a 
rule and we Catherine for if you're not 
familiar with this we have people go 
slow and steady they build their dating 
funnels and we're not getting exclusive 
till we've gone on 15 to 20 dates with 
the same person this is while we're 
currently dating other people and so 
there are times where people will tell 
me well what do I do if this person 
wants you know he's inviting me to come 
over for dinner 
um by the way I love that rule I love 
that and and this is the thing and 
here's and it comes back down to the 
same thing a guy will say listen 
Catherine you're so amazing you're a mom 
you're a kick-ass PhD you teach you're 
in clinic you've got kids who's taking 
care of you I want to make you dinner on 
Saturday night and again our empty cups 
are like waiting to be filled fill up 
that wine glass oh yes yes yes so you're 
gonna make me dinner how amazing is that 
right but what I tell 
clients is look you were walking into 
that person's territory there's a bottle 
of wine maybe two 
it's his space there's a bed there's a 
couch we all know what the happy ending 
can to that can be and suddenly you wake 
up and you're like oh my God how did 
this happen the best thing to do is to 
stay out of those situations where 
someone might be trying to take care of 
you but they could turn into situations 
that get dicey for you if you don't want 
to move that fast so if somebody says I 
want to cook you dinner just say I would 
love that maybe we can talk about that a 
month from now as our relationship grows 
and you know but maybe what we can do 
instead this weekend would you want to 
go wine tasting at this great new place 
around the corner right so you're 
describing exactly what we're talking 
about uh being able to accept input and 
establishing healthy boundaries there 
are no healthy boundaries with a love 
bomber but with a love Seeker there can 
be a discussion about boundaries and if 
that person really wants to get to know 
you they are going to be receptive to 
taking your time look we all can follow 
up quickly we can all have very strong 
feelings but it really takes a long time 
to get to know someone so slow your role 
right but there is no swinging rule with 
the love bomber absolutely none and 
that's how you know are you dealing with 
a love Seeker maybe even an overzealous 
love Seeker or you're dealing with a 
love bomber 
I love that the overzealous love Seeker 
but that's okay the overzealous love 
seeker can be put back into his or her 
sandbox right it's okay and women can do 
that too right like oh I'm in a bacon 
the casserole then tomorrow I'm gonna 
bring over some homemade lemonade and 
some cookies and then I'm gonna you know 
shower them with my three amazing Apple 
rhubarb and apricot pies it's like whoa 
slow your roll feels a little feels a 
little excessive right that's right and 
here's the thing ladies and Gentlemen 
people need to earn you okay so don't 
feel the need 
to do these grandiose gestures either 
right I love that people need to earn 
you I love that they need to earn you 
they need to earn your story they need 
to earn making dinner for you they need 
to in a sense 
earn the fact that they can love you and 
give you gifts and get to know you first 
right and there's so much Beauty in that 
they're a healthy person is able to do 
that a healthy person will say to you 
would it be okay if I brought you some 
flowers from my garden would it be okay 
if I baked you a pie because I'm Gonna 
Bake one for my best friend and I 
thought I'm gonna see you on Saturday 
and you know would would you be okay 
with that you can ask for permission 
right so that you don't seem like a love 
bomber but still do nice things because 
we all want nice things done for us and 
this is such a tightrope and this is why 
I wanted to have Dr Catherine on the 
show to talk about sometimes it's not so 
cut and dry right and these are ways I 
don't want you to be afraid to receive 
the love and the romance that you have 
so wanted for so long and I certainly 
don't want you to be afraid to show your 
love and to show and to be generous with 
your time or your things but again do it 
within scope with communication yeah 
it's a negotiation and you know you have 
a love Seeker who's willing to negotiate 
the boundaries with you right all of us 
have missed steps but it's about 
figuring it out together 
and if you're not working together to 
figure it out a love bomber has no 
concept of working together it's about 
domination but your love Seeker will 
work with you 
you know Catherine I don't know if you 
saw this documentary on Netflix a couple 
of months ago but it sort of swept the 
world and it was called the Tinder 
swindler 
and if you haven't seen it it's very 
worthwhile because this dude built three 
different women and I think ultimately 
they found him guilty of bilking and 
defrauding 10 different women to the 
tune of six million dollars wow and he 
positioned himself he said his name was 
Simon leviath and that he was the 
diamond Prince and that his family was a 
very wealthy family in in Israel that 
was in the diamond business and his 
business was very dangerous and you know 
I have a lot of enemies and so but what 
he would do the opening one of the 
opening scenes was he went on a date 
with the girl a pretty girl they swiped 
right on each other and he set up the 
drinks I think it was at the Mandarin 
Oriental in some beautiful European city 
and she shows up there and you know he 
was you know acting all cool and he's 
like listen you know uh 
I am a big businessman and I'm the 
Prince of diamonds and of course they're 
in this extravagant setting and he's 
ordering everything off the menus like 
do you want to you know I've I've got a 
jet and I'm leaving for Croatia for the 
evening would you like to come with me 
and of course she was like 
um 
I threw all good judgment aside yeah and 
said I texted my girlfriends one of whom 
said this dude might chop you up into a 
thousand pieces and dump you in the 
river sounds a little crazy but our 
Basic Instincts what she said is we all 
have a little bit of the Disney Princess 
inside of us that thinks that Prince 
Charming does exist for me and that he's 
going to come along and I thought maybe 
my prince charming had arrived and it 
put Goosebumps on every cell of my body 
to hear that and did she go to Croatia 
yes did she sleep with him yes 
she was love bound yes and it felt good 
for a minute 
oh and it felt amazing the extravagance 
with which he treated these women the 
finest hotels the finest gifts he would 
take them shopping they would have these 
luxurious meals to the point where he 
was spending fifty to eighty thousand 
dollars a day 
so I think that's a great point because 
like what is the motivation someone 
would have to spend all of that money 
into lavish you with gifts when they 
don't know you like I totally have to 
watch this so thank you for for letting 
me know about it but you know he doesn't 
know her 
he and what and it ended up being kind 
of a giant Ponzi scheme where he would 
be love bombing you but then he had told 
me in the background I'm the love bomber 
that I I got love bombed by him last 
month but now I'm reeled in and then he 
would say 
um Bella listen you know I have a lot of 
enemies and they've just shot My 
Bodyguard I'm trying to get to a safe 
location but my advisors tell me I have 
to turn off all my credit cards right 
now because those things are trackable 
and my enemies will know where I am 
could you send me twenty thousand 
dollars so what I don't know is that and 
I'm in love with him now I've been 
carpet bombed for a month and I'm like 
oh absolutely let me take out three 
payday loans because where am I going to 
find twenty thousand dollars right as a 
30 year old woman which is what these 
women were and they would leverage 
themselves beyond belief and he would 
just have them send more and more money 
now what I didn't know is I was sending 
the love of my life Simon money because 
Simon was love bombing you Catherine so 
it was a Ponzi scheme he would take from 
Bella to give to Catherine from love 
bombing with a Twist love bombing with 
the twist so so yeah it was it's a 
really amazing dark documentary to show 
that even smart beautiful women will 
fall prey to this and why because it 
appeals to our most Basic Instincts that 
we can be rescued because we've been 
taught this since we were little girls 
know as one of the Hallmarks of Love on 
this 
is too good to be true it's not real 
it's not real even and so it's all about 
the fantasy create the fantasy of you're 
so wonderful even though I don't really 
know you so I'm going to shower you with 
everything and tell you how amazing you 
are and that is unsustainable 
yeah it's and it's and it's seductive 
and so and so I hope that this chat 
helps you guys to understand is this a 
legit person or is this someone who's 
not legit and legit meaning 
is this person just a little clueless 
just a little enthusiastic just a little 
overzealous and you know brings you the 
things that seem like a little much or 
is he actually trying to manipulate and 
control you to ultimately kind of 
insidiously take over your life right 
because love bombing is about entrapping 
you and dominating you and controlling 
you so 
um I'm becoming the Center of Your World 
right so that you have he wants to be 
the son 
you know one thing we forgot to talk 
about the love bomber also made talk 
stuff about your friends and family 
little bits little bits of criticism 
here and there because once again that 
entrapment as you just said endears you 
to him or her oh so they try so they 
might say you know 
I don't think your best friend really 
likes you 
yeah and it might start off much more 
subtle 
much more subtle and then you kind of 
get more into more in-depth criticism 
um 
it's a trap it's a trap they're Throwing 
Shade it's a trap 
trap 
it's a trap so nobody should be 
criticizing or condemning or throwing 
shade at the people in your world 
because it could just be a trap to get 
you to cut your ties 
big old red flag that's so interesting 
so so interesting and Catherine is there 
anything else that you want to share 
with us that you know we haven't picked 
up on or any last words of wisdom that 
you want to share with our listener 
yeah your love Seeker will have some 
vulnerability that's real Your Love 
bomber will manufacture vulnerability 
once again as a form of entrapment and 
it's fake 
oh can you give me like give us paint a 
little picture of what good 
vulnerability is versus bad yeah like 
something typical yeah so going back to 
your example of the show like I now need 
to watch right you know where you've 
been love bombed and he's spending fifty 
thousand dollars on you and then all of 
a sudden he has a crisis right and you 
know that was a Ponzi scheme but pretend 
it's not a Ponzi scheme and it's now 
about give me back what I gave you and 
even more now that you're endeared to me 
now that I have you right it's about 
again power and control so fake 
vulnerability tends to be over the top 
right and they're usually lies wrapped 
up in that 
oh wow you know I don't know if this is 
relevant but I know we had a client that 
went on a third date with someone who up 
until that point seemed legit they went 
out for a couple of nice dinners nothing 
over the top and on the third date he 
basically said you know well aren't you 
gonna have sex with me you like this is 
what you do now yeah I bought you dinner 
we're like this is not what you do and 
this is not what anybody does and this 
is certainly nothing anybody should be 
asking for and it really took her off 
her game for a couple of weeks and we're 
like it's a one-off yeah this is bad on 
him not of you you said no you caught 
him and then he proceeded to berate her 
and because of course you're uppity 
you're haughty you're a crude nobody 
else is gonna want you you think you're 
so good but actually you're and that is 
case in point exactly what Dr Catherine 
has described to us right she said I 
don't want to sleep with you I'm I want 
to wait until I'm in a committed 
exclusive relationship because I'm being 
coached by Smart dating Academy and the 
dude went off well it's like you owe me 
now right you owe me so all of this 
over-the-top Behavior comes at a cost 
and the cost is usually you owe me which 
is why your 15-day rule is amazing 
because it takes time to get to know 
someone and that really time is the best 
teller of who is your love Seeker versus 
Your Love bomber oh amen we are so on 
the same page I tell my clients there is 
no substitute for time in the dating 
World none we want to move the hands of 
time so fast we want to get exclusive 
after three dates we want that instant 
gratification we want that instant 
Hollywood or Harlequin boyfriend but the 
reason to wait and to take things slowly 
is true character is revealed when 
pressure is applied when a bad situation 
comes up everybody is great when the sun 
is shining remember you are dating the 
representative of that person in the 
beginning right long term you know maybe 
their meal doesn't come out right at a 
restaurant and they ask for dressing on 
the side who does that Bella Gandhi and 
maybe the dressing came on the salad how 
does that person react do they flip out 
do they berate the server or do they say 
you know what would it be an 
inconvenience to remake that like yes 
and yeah and that's it right and it's 
how that person reacts to even small 
little incidents like that which is very 
telling of somebody's character long 
term is somebody's Behavior consistent 
over time trust is built Often by 
consistency in multiple settings right 
is the person consistent I love that is 
the person consistent over multiple 
settings that meaning he's really nice 
to you or she's really nice to you but 
not nice to the people around you not 
nice when talking about others yes does 
the person do what they say they're 
going to do when they say they're going 
to do it most of the time 
exactly we're all human and we all 
forget things or flake out on things or 
make mistakes but then do you own your 
mistake yes exactly and love bombers and 
narcissists don't 
oh I am I am just love and information 
bombed by this segment I mean this is 
information about and I love this so 
much love bombers versus love Seekers we 
all want a love seeker and Catherine 
thank you for being here with us and 
thank you for having me Bella oh my gosh 
and my dear listener I wish you you know 
I am your Fairy Godmother of love and 
remember a couple of episodes ago seven 
ways you're gonna find love this summer 
I want you to get psychotically 
optimistic about your dating life and 
know that you are now well armed with 
the information about what is a love 
bomber versus a love Seeker so your 
Chief psychotic Optimist is telling you 
love will come to you it's a when it's 
not an if and may he or she be a love 
seeker and not a love bomber 
see you next week 
