[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love Colin I am so 
happy to see your face and to talk to 
you today tell us just give us some 
context I mean you're amazing you've had 
this illustrious career tell us how a 
kid from Michigan got to where you are 
today well Bella thanks for having me 
here and uh I adore you I just have to 
say uh you know I kind of consider you 
as another sister I've got a great older 
sister and and you know we've known each 
other now for probably two years now I 
would want to say um and I just uh I 
look up to you you inspire me I love 
what you're doing and um thanks for 
having me here uh oh I'm so happy to 
have you here and you're such a 
spectacular human being and just full of 
inspiration and um and love and 
generosity and that's why I wanted to 
have you here to talk to all of us about 
you how you got to where you are and 
what men like you amazing successful 
cool Soulful people are looking for in 
women for real so tell us man this is 
GNA be an interesting conversation it 
sure is sleeves are up roll your sleeves 
up 
yeah um well uh so yes I I have been a 
actor in a bunch of different movies and 
TV shows over the past 20 years grew up 
in the south suburbs of Chicago this was 
not something that I thought was G to be 
in the realm of the possibility of of 
what my life was going to be all about I 
went to the University of Iowa was 
planning on going to medical school my 
father was a physician uh but there was 
something just inside you know I think 
we all had that that deeper inner 
feeling of if something is right or not 
whether that's career or relationship 
and no matter how much we try to make 
things work because it may look good on 
paper inside I think a lot of the times 
we have the tendency to ignore our inner 
feelings about something and something 
just didn't I mean the idea of being 
becoming a doctor was it I was like well 
this would be great I I love the idea of 
helping people and watching my dad have 
a profound impact on on people's lives 
was awesome I love that so I love the 
making an impact on people's lives part 
of it but the cutting people open and 
blood and all that stuff part of it I 
was like yeah I don't know if this is 
really what I want to do but I just I I 
was I was like you know 18 years old 
you're like what I I haven't seen what's 
really out there and to expect kids to 
make these lifelong decisions at 18 19 
years old it's like I was like is there 
something wrong with me that I don't I 
haven't figured this out yet and uh so I 
just kind of went along the the path of 
of college and I think I'm at the time I 
didn't realize this but I'm a firm 
believer in the Law of Attraction 
manifestation but at the time you know I 
wasn't really aware of this kind of 
stuff and I heard on the radio about 
this Model Talent search come to the 
model search America you can travel the 
world and whatnot and so I went to it 
and I graduated college months later I 
was in Milan Italy doing Runway shows 
for Georgio Armani and for Johnny 
Versace and having dinners with Elton 
John 
and the Spice Girls and I was like at 23 
years old I was like yeah baby this is 
the high life I was like this is amazing 
but I always knew that it wasn't going 
to last you know like the career of a 
male model I mean if you've seen the 
movie Zoolander it's like it's kind of 
ridiculous you know um and I was kind of 
embarrassed saying to people what I did 
well what do you do I'm a model like 
what do you mean model like fashion 
fashion model like it's just kind of 
weird you know so anyway I found my I 
was I ended up in New York City and I 
grew up for the most part an introvert 
you know getting up in front of people 
and speaking and and all that sort of 
stuff it just was not I was just I have 
anxiety when I would get up in front of 
people around groups of people so um it 
just wasn't something that I I necess 
necessarily gravitated towards but when 
I was in New York City I and the 
encouragement of my my modeling agent um 
said why don't you try an acting class 
because you know there's a lot of TV 
commercials that you can go on and I was 
like all right you know in New York and 
what's great about New York City is 
there's so much diversity uh I think a 
lot a lot of the times we can get stuck 
in our little bubbles of our friends and 
our work and I think it's so important 
to just get out of that environment and 
just expose yourself to new ideas new 
cultures new people and and that's 
exactly what I did I was like you know 
what this is not something that is in my 
comfort zone but let me just see what 
this is like and I jumped into this 
acting class and for the first time in 
my life I felt like there was a safe 
space to really fully 
Express who I am not only as a a man but 
as a person and and as in acting class 
you do a lot of work on creating these 
characters to bring them to life to the 
screen into the TV you know to TV show 
and so you analyze a lot of the 
characters so like what's your 
motivation what's your core values 
system uh what's your intention what's 
your objective in this scene to get the 
girl or to rob the bank or to whatever 
it was and this is what is really great 
about acting class and what I write 
about in my my book is that I think 
think everyone could benefit from these 
types of principles and and insights 
from acting class in the sense of 
creating more specificity in your life 
really getting clear about what you want 
from your relationships from your job 
from your your life in general and in 
acting class you've got to get 
vulnerable you've gota you're 
essentially metaphorically naked in 
front of all these people expressing 
your deepest fears and desires and it 
was so scary but freeing at the same 
time and I was like man this is like I 
after doing scenes I would walk out of 
acting class and I would just feel so 
alive and so like wow this is like we 
people can do this for a living like 
this is amazing so I just per I said you 
know what let me just I I love this I'm 
gonna I'm gonna do this and I was living 
across the street from the World Trade 
Center at the time and I was living a 
wind that hold 911 you know event all 
the events of that day happened and I 
lost my apartment that day my windows 
got blown in and essentially was was 
homeless and at that point I was like 
you know what acting is something I 
really care about where do you go to 
pursue acting Hollywood so I just 
basically grabbed my suitcase went out 
to Hollywood pounded the P pavement for 
like three years and it was not easy you 
know I think the most important things 
in life you get tested on your resolve 
you get tested on how badly you really 
want something and if you give up it 
just means that you know either it 
wasn't the right thing or you weren't 
necessarily you didn't have the support 
um but this is what I talk about too if 
you really truly care about something 
and are passionate about it whether 
that's a career or having a 
relationship it does require work it 
does require Mastery in really enjoying 
um what it is that you want and the 
great part about that is that when you 
do get it you know you deserved it 
because you worked hard for it and I 
think when things are given to us too 
easily or if we get a job that's too 
easy or get a you know find a 
relationship that you just kind of fall 
into and didn't have to really work on 
yourself or understand how to 
communicate better in 
relationships I I think there's an 
element of not appreciating it as much 
or maybe you're not willing to work hard 
to maintain it so to speak um and so 
I've just again learned a lot of these 
really amazing principles for my journey 
of being an actor and uh fast forward 
after doing all these amazing TV shows 
and movies tell us some of the shows and 
the movies because everybody I started 
out on all my children as Erica K's 
transplanted un aborted fetus son um try 
to figure that one out uh I was there 
for three years and then I did uh the 
reboot of Melrose Place and then this 
little movie called Something Borrowed 
with Kate Hudson small tiny little movie 
small little movie yeah small movie Kate 
Hudson don't know Kate Hudson yeah yeah 
uh which was incredible and you know and 
I found myself on these stages you 
working with Kate and John and Jenny 
Goodwin and showing up every day and 
literally pinching myself and I'm like 
holy I am literally about to kiss 
Kate Hudson this is like amazing amazing 
yeah yeah 
and so this is where the mindset stuff 
comes into play and this is what I think 
what's great about what you teach and 
coach on is in order for us to be able 
to really fully inhabit and own the 
space that we're in whether that's on a 
movie set or in our 
relationships it requires some attention 
to some of the mindset stuff because 
literally walking on set some of those 
that voice in our head can crop up and I 
would find that little voice saying what 
are you doing 
here these are A-list actors like like 
do you really deserve being here or like 
after I booked the audition working so 
hard then it was like oh now I got 
to do the job and what if I get fired 
and and our brains can go to the 
negative so easily yeah and it really 
requires some 
discipline in shifting our Focus to 
what's 
possible as far as what's possible in 
the realm of 
abundance instead of what's possible in 
the realm 
of like the negative so it this has been 
my journey of sh really truly creating 
the discipline and the mindset to keep 
shifting my my mindset to what's 
possible to abundance to manifestation 
and I heard something really interesting 
last week in terms of discipline 
and I would encourage everyone out there 
who 
thinks that the most important things in 
life require discipline because with 
discipline there's an element of like I 
gotta work I got yeah I gotta put it in 
my calendar and and uh this woman that 
I'm really good friends with and she's 
amazing um 
she she said something along the lines 
of if we just replace the word 
discipline with the word 
devotion there's an element more 
of I can do that there's some there's 
like some love and some energy and some 
fun and play with devotion rather than 
discipline whether that's waking up at 
six o'clock in the morning to go to the 
gym or doing some of the things that we 
don't necessarily want to do in a 
relationship or you know the things that 
require us to uh to create the abundance 
and and the things that that we want to 
enjoy in life so just reminding and 
being aware of like words like that can 
really help shift our Focus From the 
negative to the positive it's so so true 
I mean working as a dating coach and 
owning Smart dating Academy for the last 
12 years I can tell you that when people 
are in the swamp lands of dating right 
they might be really excited but a 
couple months in they're like man this 
is a slog I hate this this feels like 
human eBay whatever it is and I'll tell 
them I need you to change your words 
instead of I have to date I get to 
date and changing anything from I have 
to to I get to makes it a 
privilege makes it something positive I 
get to go on this date I get to record 
this podcast I get to go to work I get 
to go to the gym because my body is able 
and suddenly you take that negativity 
out of your head and it using PA to get 
put you in that space of gratitude and 
abundance immediately and I love 
discipline to devotion and I want you 
dear listener to think about the 
devotion that you have to creating a 
healthy happy relationship and the 
Devotion to yourself to love yourself 
and do the things that you really want 
to do and like Colin's saying listen to 
that voice inside of yourself that just 
goes hey this is amazing this lights my 
fire this is what I'm passionate about 
and listening to those things because at 
the end of the day those are the things 
and those are the moments that your life 
is going to shift those are what I call 
inflection points so Stop drowning it 
out in the I have to this sucks I hate 
this and get to I get to do this and 
watch how your life is going to change 
and so Colin is as far as I know at this 
point I know you've gots on your plate 
you know you're um you know you could be 
maybe a very eligible bachelor in 
Chicago and nationwide at this point but 
maybe not I don't know your relationship 
status so I see you kind of looking at 
me like oh wow are we going to go here 
yeah we're going to go here so you can 
choose to plead the fifth on that if you 
would like to um or yeah no I mean this 
is what I I love about you Bella is that 
you uh you don't pull any punches and I 
mean this this is how I am I mean I I 
love authentic real direct conversation 
and I feel like one of the reasons um 
why I 
uh am still single is because I have I I 
guess I've been mostly on this journey 
my my focus and my priorities have been 
pursuing 
acting 
and uh as a 
man and I I would I would probably say 
with a fair degree of certainty that for 
men in order for us to be able to invite 
a woman into our lives we have to feel 
secure pure in who we are and as I think 
the the whole conversation of of 
providing is a big one and not that I 
think women expect men to provide for 
them and take care of them like the 
traditional sense of maybe you know 100 
years ago um but more so in the sense of 
just as a a man we are 
prideful we want to succeed deep down I 
feel like we are little boys still who 
just want to do good by our you know our 
parents or our friends or whatever we we 
want to succeed so any opportunities 
where women can present an opportunity 
for a man to be successful I think that 
is a 
smart insights that I could offer to 
women where um you know I learned a lot 
from just reading about Dr John Gray Men 
Are from Mars Women Are from Venus and 
he talks about how like his um in their 
house they had his wife they have a a 
fireplace that is a wood fireplace it's 
not a gas fireplace because he said my 
wife loves it when I go out to the 
backyard haul the log even though the 
logs are chopped already like he's not 
like he's going down and chopping trees 
the fact that he physically goes out 
there and carries the logs into the 
garage and then builds the fire and then 
you know does the physical act of 
lighting it there's like there's a 
ritual to those kinds of things that I 
think tap into our subconscious psyche 
as men and women that I feel like is 
missing in today's relationships and uh 
it's the the sense of a making a woman 
feel safe and in the sense of even just 
doing these physical acts like that 
instead of going over to the fireplace 
and just turning a switch and then the 
gas fireplace turns on you know there's 
really no effort in that so he said his 
wife says honey I just love how like you 
go out there and you H you haul these 
heavy logs in from the outside and how 
you make me a beautiful fireplace you're 
amazing like those are the things that I 
think if couples can create more of 
those types of um moments in a 
relationship that is what really helps 
keep relationships together and keeps 
the attraction going positive 
interactions are so key and I'm so glad 
you said that because I think if we tap 
into the psyche of women women have what 
we call more of this diffuse awareness 
right women you guys were the hunters we 
were the gatherers 200,000 years ago and 
we had to manage the fields and the kids 
and keeping relationships up with other 
women and who's sick and who's well and 
where are the men anyway and so we 
contend to look for just because we're 
wired this way to be attentive to 10 
different things and keep the plates 
spinning to things that aren't wrong 
because there are so many plates up in 
the air that are spinning right so you 
don't want one to fall on break so 
always like oh that's not good that's 
not good so this is why women can tend 
to see more readily what's wrong and 
call out what's wrong so we can often 
get reputations is don't be a nag don't 
be so critical and so it comes from a 
good place is what I tell women and tell 
men about the women that they're with 
but understanding why she might do that 
right because this is just a different 
Consciousness that women have but it's 
antithetical to what men want so I tell 
women all the time look for what's good 
and tell them what's good three times a 
day acknowledge the good I know you're 
wired to acknowledge what's not good 
there's a hole in the wall the cabinet's 
Crooked the lawn's too long whatever it 
is but look for wow you know what you 
changed the light bulb over the sink and 
the kitchen looks so much brighter thank 
you right and suddenly the other stuff 
that you asked for will get done because 
you have padded him on the back they're 
like the boys on the playground say you 
did a good job at this and you'll get 
more yeah and just like just even saying 
than you you're amazing you're amazing 
that was 
awesome yeah just those little things 
make make a big difference um and and 
then I guess to piggyback on that I 
think one of the reasons why I still I 
am single is because um my priority has 
been my career and then I have also felt 
like I needed to do some work on myself 
in order for me to feel comfortable and 
confident in with me before I felt like 
I could show 
up as a uh you know a a the kind of 
partner that I would want to be with and 
I feel like when I was earlier in my 20s 
know the physical attraction we can get 
attracted to people and then you're 
together and you don't really have the 
tools or the communication strategies in 
order to really understand or 
communicate your feelings and that sort 
of thing and um I you know just from 
watching my parents and other people 
there you know relationships and the 
breakdowns and communication and the 
struggles and uh I I guess I've uh my 
mom said I didn't start speaking until I 
was four years old but she said then 
once you started speaking you just 
started speaking in like full sentence 
so I guess I've always been like maybe a 
a more analytical person with regards to 
things inad of you know I do jump into 
certain things but when it comes to 
relationships and marriage in particular 
because that to me is is sacred and and 
I you know I I want obviously I want to 
have just not there's any guarantees but 
I don't want to get married three or 
four times I don't want to just say well 
let's see let's try this starter 
marriage you know see how this goes like 
well let's see how it goes like no I not 
so much no not so much and I uh I have 
realized there were certain parts of me 
that just were not maybe ready to commit 
and I have a very adventurous spirit so 
I love to travel and I love to do all 
that sort of thing um and now I'm in a 
place in my life where I feel like I've 
done a lot of the things that I've 
wanted to do and accomplish and now I I 
feel like I'm in a place now where I'm 
more ready to invite someone into my 
life because I have a really good sense 
of who I am I know my faults I know my 
desires I know my little bit of what's 
crazy about me and there's a really 
great um uh speaker coach named elain de 
Bon I love him yeah he's great you guys 
should definitely check out his stuff 
but what I really liked about what he 
said was he said the best thing you 
could probably do on a a first date is 
say well this is my brand of crazy 
what's yours and so you just get out 
there like because I think we we hide 
things and we pretend that we put our 
best versions of ourselves out there and 
then over time you know it causes a lot 
of of we put so much pressure on 
ourselves to be the best version of 
ourselves I mean just scroll through 
Instagram and it's just like the best 
versions of you know everything um until 
you know some I don't know some people 
do put stuff on there that's like well 
this is really who I am so there's 
there's that but I think for the most 
part 
um the more authentic that we can be the 
more open we can be about just sharing 
what our deficiencies are and just 
having those kinds of conversations um I 
think are really important in 
relationships yeah I think that 
everybody's got their brand of crazy and 
I remember you know doing Steve Harvey's 
shows for many seasons Steve used to say 
something funny he's like you know in 
the beginning you're dating that 
person's representative you ain't dating 
the real person right so the 
representative at a certain Point goes 
away and then you start to get to the 
nitty-gritty and the balance in dating 
is being able to reveal your certain 
brand of crazy without seeming truly 
crazy right it's about you know it's 
about vulnerability but vulnerability in 
its true sense what bernee Brown says 
that I think so many people 
misunderstand is vulnerabilities without 
boundaries is just 
oversharing yes thank you yeah and and 
so understanding how to kind of time the 
seeds that come out time the little 
pellets that come out about your certain 
brand of crazy it's like date one is 
good date three we can go here date five 
then we can start to really say okay is 
this a match or isn't it and this this 
question is something that just came to 
mind as you talked about you're doing so 
much work on yourself and you kind of 
know who you are and you're working on 
your career and and all of this great 
stuff and one of the questions I get 
from women a lot is is it going to be 
intimidating to a guy that you know I'm 
the senior vice president at a Fortune 
100 company and is what I do 
intimidating is somebody going to be mad 
because maybe I out earn them or my 
position is really high I mean do you 
have any thoughts for women on that um 
you know just in general like does it 
bother you to any any extent about what 
a woman does or doesn't do for her 
career I'm attracted to women who are in 
those roles of leadership and who uh who 
are not afraid to go out there and make 
their Mark to um you know and that 
doesn't mean you have to be the CEO of a 
company um I I 
mean Anyone who puts themselves out 
there 
and does the things that are not easy 
that are are difficult um I find that 
inspiring and I I I am attracted to 
women who do it with Grace and with 
vulnerability where they do it and then 
at the end of the day we can share a 
glass of wine and and they like man it's 
such a shitty day today this whatever D 
D but then like there's a sense of humor 
to it because like you said earlier 
about what ber Brown said I think it's 
really important not to use a 
relationship as a Dumping Ground for 
everything that you're experiencing in 
your day I think it's important to have 
those boundaries where your relationship 
is a place um Ela de Debon describes it 
as essentially looking at relationship 
as an opportunity as almost like a uh a 
learning incubator where you go there 
it's your opportunity to engage with 
someone who cares about you and support 
you but to learn from each other and um 
and I think 
uh when women are in those positions of 
boss babess I guess you could call it 
that absolutely I think it's only 
intimidating to a she's only 
intimidating to a man when a man is not 
in his full manliness and I think it's 
and I guess this is where this is why 
I'm still single is that with the ups 
and downs of acting there's a lot of 
unpredictability both where I'm going to 
be geographically financial and so if 
I'm not feeling stable how can I invite 
a woman into my life and show up in that 
relationship knowing that a Rel 
relationship requires commitment it 
requires um transparency it requires all 
this stuff and if she says well hey you 
know let's go to this location in in a 
month from now and I'm like well that 
sounds like a great idea but if I get an 
acting job I may have to be I may not be 
able to do that and I I totally respect 
that some people just don't want to 
engage in in that kind of Lifestyle but 
um I would say when a man is in his in 
his power when he's a when he's feeling 
good about himself and a lot of that has 
to do we identify a lot of our 
self-identity with our 
career good or bad um if we're not 
feeling good about where we are at in 
our career it's hard for us to then get 
out of our cave to show up for a woman 
the way that we really want to or maybe 
we haven't done enough work on 
ourselves so that when we are around 
those powerful women we may be attracted 
to them but we also get 
intimidated where then we will try 
to undercut their you know their like 
pull the rug out from underneath them 
because you have then this power play of 
if a woman is is doing it things that 
are in her power it can it can sometimes 
make a man feel inferior or emasculated 
and then at that point they're going to 
either resort to attacking or 
criticizing or not recognizing you for 
your achievements or they're just going 
to retreat and so you know I think it's 
uh it's it's such a it that's what's so 
amazing about relationships and life in 
general but it's also can be really 
frustrating 
because there's so many different little 
components that that uh are required in 
order for a relationship to work and and 
a lot of times people just think well 
this doesn't feel right so it's not the 
right relationship when really if you 
just maybe were to talk about it a 
little more and just share if men were 
able to say you know what you're amazing 
but sometimes when I'm around you I feel 
that um that where I'm at in my life I'm 
just not feeling the best about where 
I'm at and so don't think that I'm not I 
don't like you I don't yeah not 
attracted to you but sometimes I need to 
retreat to be able to work on myself to 
be able to be comfortable and be your 
match and I think the problem with that 
is men 
nowadays it's so much easier just 
to go to work come home play video games 
games watch 
football and yeah and not work on 
ourselves um but I'm seeing a lot more 
of these kind of coaching groups and 
men's groups where men and I've been a 
part of some of these men's groups where 
you know we come together and we can 
actually be vulnerable and still be in 
our masculine and uh I I think the last 
little bit of insight that I want to 
share here is that it's also important 
though that for women when men are doing 
manly things we need to go back into our 
cave 
to just be back in our manliness for us 
to be able to then come back out of our 
cave to be the man that we want to be 
for you and if we're retreating and 
watching football or if we're doing our 
manly stuff you got to let us do that 
stuff without making us feel bad about 
it like oh you're watching football 
again like you never pay any attention 
to me it's like well go do your thing 
and Men We there's a little Hunter 
mentality inside of here if you if you 
just like kind of disappear and allow 
opportunities for us to chase you and so 
that you're not chasing us just a little 
bit and and people say well I don't want 
to play games I don't I'm tired I don't 
I want to be in a relationship it's not 
a game it's not a game it's not a game 
right it's not just it's understanding 
these little dynamics of just who we are 
physiologically and and bi ically and 
and 
psychologically that when you start to 
learn about this stuff and just start 
reading some books about this stuff um 
David Dada I think that's how he 
pronounced his name there's a book 
called The Way of the superior man when 
I read that I was like oh my God boom 
like I my I was like this is why I you 
know like so and so in high school 
didn't want to date me and like because 
I was like I was too nice like men can 
be too nice sometimes and we show up 
like oh hi like do would you like this 
or did you like this and we think that's 
what a woman wants and women are like 
and that's why women tend to go for the 
bad guy because the bad guy is just like 
in his masculine and just doesn't it's 
not that they don't care it's just that 
they're not making the woman the full 
priority and it's important that we both 
men and women have your own thing that 
you're not making each other the 
priority it's you've got your life 
you've got your career you've got your 
hobbies and your your goals and your 
dreams but they're yours and you're not 
relying on the other person for your 
happiness or for validation 
or that's your stuff like you got to 
handle that on your own you you 
can't expect your partner to like tell 
you all this stuff now again there's 
those those moments of connection and 
communication that are that are 
important that keep the fire burning 
where you're amazing you're but it's not 
it's not like you're not dependent on it 
for your selfworth so to speak 100% And 
I think that you know it's one of the 
things when you and I were were prepping 
about you know kind of the the five 
things that you find most attractive in 
women now we're going to go outside 
physical attraction everybody knows 
that's the 
instantaneous okay I'd like to get to 
know you better okay that's not rocket 
science you know lust is Nature's Way of 
tricking us into attachment right so now 
if you find someone physically desirable 
I think one of the things that you did 
say on this list was exactly that like 
having your own things that you're 
passionate about having your own life 
the same way where you just said in high 
school you were like oh my god do you 
want this or do you want that and you 
weren't fully in your masculinity kind 
of with your own life it doesn't mean 
I'm an I'm going to treat you 
badly but it means like I've got my own 
stuff going on do you want to meet up at 
this time no okay that's fine let me 
know when you can move on and do the 
next thing and for women it's the same 
thing have your own lives have your own 
passions because that energy is 
infectious and it makes you more 
interesting when people ask my husband 
like Andy what do you think about this 
business that Bella started and she's 
doing all these things he's like I think 
it's amazing and now and I can tell you 
of course there's challenges when you 
have two people with two big active 
careers but ultimately dinner 
conversation is never boring we always 
have things to talk about what but we 
have implicitly agreed to be each 
other's what we call soft place to land 
after work I can hear you out about the 
things that went well in your day or 
didn't go bad in your day but I'm always 
going to be team Colin I'm not going to 
be like well your boss was right it's 
like listen to you take your side at 
that point and we'll do that for each 
other and it's made and and I wish we 
knew these things when we first got 
married because it wasn't always that 
easy but as you get into it and you 
start to realize like oo that was a lot 
of unnecessary friction but really 
having your own life and your own 
passions you don't need to chameleon 
into what the other person is doing or 
is interested in that's not to say you 
shouldn't if you're dating me and I like 
to ski and you're like I've never skied 
before but I'd give it a try that's 
amazing but that doesn't mean you need 
to give up your life and become a double 
black diamond skier just because I like 
to ski right so it's it's this Nuance 
it's this tight RPP of having your own 
life but being interested in your 
partner love it yes that that's exactly 
it it's like best friends best friends 
our best friends because a lot of the 
times they enjoy doing the same things 
they enjoy talking about the same things 
they enjoy usually shared Mutual 
interests um I think that's that's key 
it's 
not it's not I think the most important 
thing but uh I think the more things 
that you can find that you mutually like 
to do together that definitely helps I 
love that and one of the things that you 
say to 
is you know in addition to have your own 
passions because that's something that's 
really attractive is you say confidence 
is key now if you kind of close your 
eyes right confidence means different 
things to different people and if you 
were walking in to a first day let's say 
you were set up and I was like Colin I 
found this amazing woman and she works 
with me and I really think you guys 
would hit it off now in your mind if you 
can say what what makes somebody seem 
confident is it phys physical is it a 
Jenice sequa is it the way she speaks 
like kind of tell us about what you 
think what is attractive from a 
confidence 
standpoint I would say it's that you 
know Hollywood they refer to it as that 
it quality like when you know movie star 
walks in the room it's almost as if like 
the energy just shifts the molecules in 
the air start to vibrate yeah and this 
is what I I teach in acting class and 
this is what I talk about too just 
owning your space owning the stage and 
uh there's some people who who expand in 
certain environments and some people 
shrink and uh it's that expansion energy 
that I'm attracted to and I would say a 
lot of people are attracted to as well 
and so any any thing that you can do 
that helps you expand that 
energy where you are in your element so 
to speak so whether that's whether you 
like to dance or sing or whatever like 
just keep focusing on doing things like 
that and um so 
when I I guess it it's not about chasing 
after a person in a relationship it's 
doing what you love to do and inviting 
someone to see you in that element where 
you are in that abundant energy because 
that is what people are attracted to and 
if you it's not about the chase it's 
about if you build 
it in the movie Field of Dreams it's if 
you build it he will come but if you 
build it they will come and that's what 
I've really tried to focus on especially 
over the past three years where when I 
was in Hollywood I was going to these 
auditions I was being hired on other 
people's projects and then it was almost 
as if like there was Gatekeepers that 
were saying yes or no to whether I could 
do what I love to do or not and I got to 
a point in my life where I was tired of 
waiting for other people to decide 
whether or not I was able to do what I 
love to do or not so I started to so I 
wrote my book I started teaching acting 
class I and so I it really required me 
getting out of my comfort zone and it 
was not comfortable in the beginning 
parts of it all but if you just focus on 
what you want if you really truly truly 
want a loving amazing 
relationship you're going to do whatever 
it takes to manifest that and I think 
some people when they get out of 
relationships when I talk to them they 
say well I don't ah now I got to go date 
again and now I gotta I have to probably 
date like 50 guys or 50 girls before I 
you know I just that's so much work but 
then when you meet the right person it's 
not work you look forward to it it's you 
know there's that energy and um and so I 
guess long answer or short long answer 
to your question um I am attracted to 
women who are in their element of what 
they do and what they love and when they 
then also can bring a little bit of that 
into my life where let's say I think 
it's really important and I think cool 
like let's say if a guy is sitting 
watching football he's in his element 
he's doing what he loves to do and 
instead because my mom used to walk into 
the the living room my dad would be 
watching baseball or football and she'd 
be like honey we let's do this or you um 
we're going to go to the The Smiths on 
Tuesday and he'd be like yeah yeah okay 
okay and then you know she would leave 
and then it was like Tuesday I would 
come by and like okay you know are you 
ready he be like for what like for I 
told you we're going to the Smiths he's 
like when did you tell me that like I 
told you that the other day when you 
were watching football I was watching 
football like I'm not listening like so 
if a woman could play more in a man's 
world and if a man can play more in a 
woman's world and what I mean by that is 
if my mom would sit down on the couch 
with my dad even if it was just for five 
minutes yeah and instead of going in and 
saying honey we need to do this and this 
and this and this and this if she could 
just get in his world sit down on the 
couch for like five or 10 minutes and 
just even and my mom does not like 
sports she doesn't she wouldn't even 
like she didn't even like to come watch 
us in high school and stuff like that 
you know she's like she just doesn't 
like sports but if she would just sit 
down on the couch and be like so honey 
um you you love football like what do 
you love about 
it so I see that guy he just threw the 
ball to that guy what who is like what 
is that and why would he throw it there 
like just express some interest in what 
a guy does and he'll be like oh yeah so 
that's the quarterback and what he does 
is he throws it to this guy and then 
there's the so what's who's the running 
back well the running back is this guy 
he you know and so even if you don't 
like it if you just show some interest 
in and where the guy can feel in his 
element and it makes him feel good and 
then he's gonna associate you with yeah 
my girl she like you know I know she 
doesn't like football but she's always 
she's so cute she comes in and she like 
sits down with me for like a few minutes 
and she like asks questions and I you 
know I tell her and and then gives me a 
kiss on the cheek and then she goes and 
does her thing you know and one time she 
came in the room and she had a Chicago 
Bears Jersey on and she brought me a 
beer you know and and then that is a way 
to I think that creates those elements 
of connection where 
then a man will start to think about 
hopefully um doing the things that maybe 
he doesn't want to do but like she wants 
to do where then he's you know he will 
feel more invested or more wanting to do 
that because he loves how when she does 
it for him I love that I love that so 
much and it's just it's showing interest 
in each other instead it's instead of 
saying I don't like this it's like well 
maybe you don't like it because you 
don't understand it so go get into his 
world for 10 or 15 minutes and show and 
and maybe maybe you don't want to ask 
him why do you like football as the 
ball's running down the field as top but 
maybe you could say hey wait a second 
what just happened I don't understand 
that like explain this to me right 
that's easy now you're invested in the 
game like just do those little things 
and that's actually such a great tip as 
a parent of teenagers I'll tell you 
that's exactly there are times where I'm 
like my God why are they continuously 
listening to this music and it sounds 
grading and awful and every other word's 
a horrible curse word and then I'm like 
okay take yourself out of yourself walk 
into Max's room and be like who is this 
artist and the conversation totally 
changed it's like oh my God mommy this 
is my favorite song right now this guy 
was on a plane and he was 20 years old 
and let me play you this part I'm like 
it's that easy all I have to do is stop 
judging stop trying to change it and 
instead show a little interest and join 
it it's been breakthrough in our 
relationship my daughter is like hey do 
you want to watch The Bachelor with me 
doing what I do you would think I would 
follow the bachelor i' had never seen it 
until two years ago where she said will 
you watch The Bachelor with me and I 
said I will and it was so fun to get 
into her world and of course doing what 
I do that was even extra special I was 
like this show I'm going to like I 
literally had to just put my hands in my 
mouth and not scream every time 
something happened and it was just a 
great way to bond so getting 
into anybody you have a relationship 
with showing some interest in their 
world having the things you're 
passionate about but being becoming 
interested in theirs and not looking at 
the world as a bunch of zeros and ones I 
don't like this and I do like this no 
get curious get passionate about other 
people and and something that you also 
said is you know it's actually the 
number one thing that when you sent me 
notes for this it's having an energy 
match are you with the right person does 
this person energize you or drain you 
tell me a little bit about this and 
maybe specific situations that you were 
in where someone you thought could be 
great drained you or someone you didn't 
think was going to be amazing but you 
were energized like can you think of as 
a specific 
scenario yeah I mean I'm not going to 
name names but you d certain actresses 
and uh and other women of course um and 
I I'm an introvert by and what I mean by 
that is from what I've read about 
introvert compared to extrovert is that 
my energy gets drained if I'm 
around loud noises or a lot of stimulus 
and and so I need to withdraw to 
re-energize and just kind of get my my 
energy back whereas my brother he just 
thrives in like the energy and he's 
always just like nonstop talking and oh 
yeah let's go here let's go and he'll 
like dude come on let's go I'm like ah 
you know what I'm gonna I'm just gonna 
sit back and I'm just gonna stay you 
know we go to Arizona spring training to 
watch Chicago Cubs and there's there's 
concerts and there's all this stuff and 
sometimes I'll be like no I'm just gonna 
I'm gonna hang here at the hotel and 
just kind of you know just watch a 
little TV like what are you what's wrong 
you know and like and I and I would 
question question myself is there 
something wrong with me that I don't 
want to do that like I like and so like 
I you know just kind of reading about 
this stuff there they're just there's 
different types of personality types and 
I have found myself sometimes with with 
women who just have a lot of energy or 
maybe just 
um 
uh here's one and I'm not trying to 
disparage anyone but sometimes I've been 
in relationships or even some of my 
friends where they just talk a lot and 
there's no room for conversation it's 
like monologue and it's just like I just 
find myself 
just and and after a while like it's 
like do you care about what I think 
about it do you like want to know my 
opinion on this and so I guess in terms 
of energy match I think there's a give 
and take and the more that you can kind 
of just check in with your partner 
and uh ask their opinion or or um maybe 
just kind of be a little self-aware of 
noticing when your partner tends to be a 
little more quiet or when they are amped 
up you know um find out why what makes 
them passionate and just know that you 
can't expect your partner to be 
everything for you so I'm not saying if 
you are with someone who has high energy 
and you are more who is more extroverted 
and you tend to be more introverted um 
not that that won't work um it's just 
that there's just you've got to 
communicate and understand that okay 
honey um do you want to come with me to 
the bar or whatever no you go ahead and 
it's just like where you can be okay 
with one of your partners not going with 
you to something you know where you're 
able to just go do your own thing and 
you go to a party and you go to separate 
parts of the room and you're talking to 
different people instead of having to be 
with each other for everything that you 
do and I think it's really important 
that each partner has the ability to 
just say you know honey I'm going to sit 
this one out I'm just really you sure 
you know like and not making him wrong 
for it exactly and and vice versa I love 
that it's you wouldn't make somebody 
feel badly about wanting to go to the 
concert right and you don't want them to 
make you feel bad about wanting to stay 
back at the hotel it's like you sure you 
good you good yep I'm good you're good 
okay great you go do your thing I love 
that that's so key and energetic matches 
and and I am guessing that when we talk 
about energetic matches another element 
that seems really important to you and 
maybe I'm putting words in your mouth is 
someone who has positive energy and it 
doesn't have to be hyper crazy on stage 
you know a th% of the time extroverted 
positive energy but just positive in the 
sense that look at looks at the world 
from a glass half full standpoint and is 
absent of cattiness and drama so let's 
kind of go there I know you've dated a 
swath of women actresses not actresses 
right cattiness and drama kind of 
suck 
true what's true meaning positive energy 
seems like that's what you're more drawn 
to because I know when we were talking 
more it's like cattiness and drama are 
total turnoff so talk a little bit about 
that is that more in the way people act 
to you is it in the way they're talking 
about others is it all of the 
above I would 
say 
uh in terms of positive energy it really 
it's it's like 
a it's an energetic it's like an 
abundant energy more than anything 
so it um and and yes CAD type of 
talk 
um when I look I I I have my opinions so 
when I'm in a relationship I full force 
we'll be like oh my god did you see this 
movie or did you like did you see this 
and did and I have my opinions about 
certain things but it's not like uh oh 
my god did you see that actor like he 
was hor like or did you see what she was 
wearing that was like 
I have opinions about like oh my god do 
you see that dude wearing that purple 
thing like it's more of a curiosity 
thing than a criticism I like to live my 
life through the the eyes of of Wonder 
and curiosity and if something does look 
weird or strange I'll be like oh my God 
that's the weirdest thing I but I mean 
it in like in a an like well that's 
amazing or like or if I do see something 
that 
is an artist um I I do I mean I I'm not 
going to be afraid to say that you know 
I have my opinions but when it comes to 
um 
relationships man having opinions is a 
very tricky thing because I think it's 
really important to have your opinion 
but not 
just let it fly free it's if your 
partner is doing something that you 
don't approve of or you don't like 
instead of immediately going to why 
would you do that why did you say that 
to that person and it where there's this 
like critical judgmental tone it again 
like what you did with your son what I 
like and this is where the emotional 
intelligence comes into it where you may 
have that urge to be like to say 
something or like what' you do like why' 
you do or like you know F you but if you 
can just contain that urge and this is 
what I find attractive about women when 
they're when I can tell that there's 
like there's that there's that 
restraint and 
there uh they ask a question such 
as 
H and what was the reason you did that 
instead of this where there's like a 
there's room for conversation or there's 
a a direct communication like so I'd 
like to talk to you about something you 
know how the other day you said this 
I've been thinking about it and it 
really made me uncomfortable because of 
this where you're removing the emotion 
out of it because when we bring emotion 
into conversations our defenses go up 
and then there's no room for connection 
and if you want to be right go ahead 
bring all the emotions you want well he 
didn't do this and he said this I'm and 
I'm right well guess what right gets you 
a lot of the times him sleeping on the 
couch and you in the bedroom and you're 
pissed off but if you are committed and 
devoted to a loving caring supportive 
relationship it requires restraint and 
instead of discipline Devotion 
to not only you but if you really truly 
love someone you care about their growth 
you care about their development because 
a lot of times we say and do things that 
we don't even realize are offensive to 
people and if your partner can help you 
work through that stuff without making 
you feel wrong for it I think that's the 
gold you know it's so funny I'm going to 
leap frog off of what you said with 
restraint one of the things that we 
teach our clients and it's something 
that we do in our my house is like my 
petri dish for my relationship theories 
clearly with a long-standing marriage 
and kids but we do something called 
assume positive 
intent and if you switch your lens to 
okay why did you do that that seemed 
really obnoxious it's like I'm going to 
assume for a second like if you were the 
person I was dating I'm going to assume 
Colin had a reason for reacting or 
saying or doing what he did that was 
positive and as soon as I assume 
positive intent from you it switches the 
way I look at the scenario or we can say 
I look at the scene right if I assume 
you've got positivity as your 
intention I won't judge you or be 
critical and it automatically makes me 
assume the best and it takes me down 
from DEFCON 5 back down to defc con one 
and the other thing even when you assume 
positive intent and you can't get to 
that place where you're like God I still 
can't figure out why the hell he would 
do that then the way to start 
conversations that we've found to be so 
helpful in dating and relationships and 
life in general is you know the story 
I'm telling myself is when you said this 
what you wanted me to do was this this 
is the story I'm telling myself is that 
true and what that does it immediately 
has the other person shed their armor 
put their weapon down because now you've 
given them the benefit of the 
doubt assuming positive intent and 
starting with the story I'm telling 
myself means you're implicitly and 
explicitly you're 
acknowledging here's my interpretation 
but that doesn't mean it's the truth and 
that doesn't mean it's what you intended 
I have found in my own relationship when 
we start with the story I'm telling 
myself arguments that could have sprung 
with this amplitude now come down to 
here it's been an amazing shift when you 
give people the benefit of the doubt 
assuming positive intent and I tell my 
clients this in the dating world all the 
time oh my God this guy ghosted me 
because he said his kid was sick I'm 
like assume positive intent his kid was 
sick and now come from a place of 
empathy instead of assuming it's ly 
you'll find out one way or the other but 
why don't you assume positive intent and 
then you're putting that good energy out 
there and at least half of the time it 
was true now imagine if you came in to 
that going that's dirty rotten scoundrel 
he lied to me again when he really did 
have a sick kid what's that guy going to 
do red flag that's a drama queen 
controlling game 
over that's yeah I everything you said 
is is so spoton 
and while you were just saying 
that it just came to I I just got this 
thought that um assuming the the 
positive 
I think what acting has taught me 
especially with regards to dating 
and when someone doesn't text you 
back I think what acting has taught me 
and auditioning has taught me about 
dating is that if I go into an 
audition they act like oh my God you 
like Colin so good to see you how was 
that show oh my I love you in this movie 
you were so great okay great like all 
right you ready let's do this audition 
and you know I'll I and to do an 
audition you got to put your whole heart 
and soul it takes hours to prepare for 
these auditions money working with 
acting teachers and you get prepared and 
then you go into this room and then if 
you can tell that they're receptive to 
what you're doing obviously it's a great 
feeling because you feel like okay there 
maybe there's a possibility for us to 
collaborate and to do this movie and and 
it feels great because there's feels 
like there's Synergy and energy and you 
feel like you did a great job and then 
I'll leave and I'll call my agent like 
wow that was amazing it felt like really 
great in there and it doesn't always 
feel like that but when it does you know 
I call my agent so you know can you 
follow up and they he'll call back yep 
they loved you the you know you're one 
of their top you know actors picks for 
the role so far awesome and then few 
days goes by a week goes by two 
weeks hey agent um did they they call 
about that project that you know like 
felt like we had something like it was 
great you know and uh no haven't heard 
from let me check 
in day goes by two days hey agent did 
did you ever get a hold of them no no 
they I I reached out to them they never 
got back to me and this is what happens 
in dating where you may go on a 
spectacular date it may feel great and 
then nothing and this is what acting has 
taught me with regards to dating it's 
not that there was anything wrong with 
you it's not that there's anything bad 
about you because we can take things so 
personally it just you weren't the right 
fit and there's nothing right or wrong 
about that and the thing that you can 
there's nothing you can control about 
whether I get a job or not other than me 
becoming the best actor and the best 
version of myself so that the next time 
when I walk into that room I am the pick 
and some people may saywell they I never 
get picked I have gone on over 2,000 
auditions wow and I've gotten picked 
about 40 
times wow I have Goosebump that's a lot 
of NOS but it's not even a no it's not 
the right fit but in that process I've 
had all these amazing experiences of 
working all around the world working 
with Kate Hudson getting to kiss Kate 
Hudson uh and and doing uh all these 
different projects and making good money 
and all this like amazing stuff has come 
out of all of this but that's the tip of 
the iceberg compared to all of the work 
and the structure that went into it and 
it's not wasted go on dates go 
experience things and if it works out 
great if not his loss or her loss and if 
they're not calling you back back it 
means that it's there's nothing wrong 
with you or it just wasn't the right fit 
and if you want to increase your 
chances what can you do to be the better 
version of yourself take ownership of it 
stop blaming someone for not texting you 
back just move on and have that attitude 
of I'm the freaking queen I'm the 
freaking King and if they don't want me 
then I'm going to find my king or my 
queen but you got to get out you got to 
keep creating that energy and that 
abundance and that energy instead of 
retreating and sitting in front of the 
TV with net on watching Netflix and 
eating ice cream where you're just like 
basking in your like oh I didn't like me 
you know I think it's important to 
recognize like when you know we we've 
got to cycle through our emotions and 
not deny them but don't stay in it for 
too long like give yourself that time to 
to like when I don't get a job I'm like 
 like godamn it you know 
when you get that no it's like what's 
wrong with me like ah and then nope 
Colin nope there's nothing wrong commit 
to go back to acting class reading 
another script just keep creating 
Mastery and the actor that I am right 
now I'm a much B better actor than I was 
10 years ago 20 years ago and just know 
the more that you can be in this 
conversation and be in this conversation 
of abundance and getting out there and 
doing things that that make you feel 
great about you you're going to increase 
your chances of finding that partner 
Who's Gonna See You In Your Glory like 
man 
that I I want to ask that person out 
because there's just something like 
there's that it quality bottom that I 
just you know I love and like I it's 
attractive oh my God as you were talking 
like my mind was whirling because I was 
thinking about 40 yeses to 2,000 
auditions right like that's okay so if 
you got if you're out there and single 
listening to this right there's it 
people always say you got to play the 
numbers game you want to play it smart 
but you've got to play the numbers game 
and what I love so much about what you 
said and the the metaphor that came to 
mind was they're not saying no I'm just 
not the right fit it's like a lock in a 
key and at a certain point point every 
interaction in your life is like locking 
key and are you the key that's going to 
unlock that particular lock 40 times you 
were the key to that lack yeah and the 
other 
1,000 whatever 
2,675 whatever that you weren't it's 
okay the key didn't fit the lock and so 
if you can take this metaphor that I 
think Colin so beautifully explained 
about how dating is like auditions and 
you just think of yourself this isn't 
rejection of you as a human being you 
suck you're a terrible actor you're a 
bad dater I don't like you you're 
unattractive it's the lock in the key 
didn't fit move on to the next one I 
love that so much and this was like I 
full body chills as you were telling 
those stories so I um am so grateful for 
your authenticity and your generosity 
and your 
transparency in in in the conversation 
with me you know are there any last 
things that you want to tell the dear 
listener I would say in on now we're on 
the subject of authenticity if you're 
really looking for some feedback like 
with auditions I I would sometimes um if 
there was a really a project that I 
really wanted cared about and my agent 
was not able to get any feedback of why 
I didn't get the job uh sometimes I 
would find myself at parties or 
networking events or whatever and I 
would go up to the casting director and 
I'd be like hey you know hey how you 
been what's going on by the way um and I 
think it's important to frame things so 
that people don't feel like they're 
explaining themselves yeah I like to 
frame things in the sense 
of of if they know that you are if 
they're contributing to someone's growth 
or development people are more willing 
to give advice so what I do is I say Hey 
listen 
um you know remember that project um 
because I love acting and I I man I love 
that role and I and I I love what I do 
I'm committed to being you know the best 
actor I can possibly be is there 
anything that you feel like you could 
share with me about what I did in that 
audition that you feel could contribute 
to my growth and development as an actor 
people love to offer that type of advice 
and they're like yeah you know what um 
you were great you were but there was 
another and there's really nothing that 
we can say that really was not great 
about what you did but there was another 
actor that came in and his choices were 
a little more a little more specific a 
little more intense a little we felt his 
his vulnerability more in that part and 
and it just not that you had fans in 
that room Colin you did but that other 
actor just came in and he was just and 
you know whether it was the better fit 
or whatever but you can usually glean 
some sort of information from that and 
I'll be and you don't want to like be 
like but tell me more you just want to 
like a little bit you don't want to like 
keep pressing someone it's enough where 
you can kind of get some feedback where 
then okay vulnerability or like some 
sort of feedback and what I've I've 
parlay that into because I do do some 
coaching myself and I was working with 
this woman and she's single and she was 
um trying to get my take on some of her 
relationships from the male perspective 
and I said well have you ever are you 
still friends with and she did say well 
I'm still friends with some of these 
guys but I'm just not with them and I 
said well what would you think it would 
look like and do you think they'd be 
open to this if you were to ask 
them without putting them on the 
defensive um just ask them what was it 
about you that made them not want to be 
with you 
anymore and would you be comfortable 
asking that question to them and she was 
like I don't know 
uh I mean I'm kind of 
curious maybe I don't know and she did 
it and she did it and our next call she 
said oh my God Colin that was so 
insightful she was like he just told me 
how how like sometimes I would just get 
in my own little world and I wouldn't 
pay attention to what he was 
doing and I wouldn't like I W I 
wasn't interested in his world and and I 
just kind of felt like well if he 
doesn't want to do something then I 
guess I should just do my own thing and 
she's like I realized that I need to be 
more engaging and I she said she he said 
something along the lines of like um he 
said you can be very cold at 
times and she was like I didn't even 
realize I she's like I just was like 
giving him his space and to him it was I 
didn't 
care 
so if you people out there if you have 
the opportunity if you feel like it's 
not going to cause any fights or 
whatever if you still feel 
friendly just reach out to someone say 
listen I'm just I'm I'm in this growth 
and Vel mment phase in my life and I'm 
just learning more about myself and um 
can I ask you just a question about like 
when we were 
dating generally people are like pretty 
open to that like so um what would you 
say is maybe a reason what why our 
relationship didn't work out maybe just 
kind of start there where it's not like 
well what didn't you like about me 
because people are not going to hesitate 
people are don't want to hurt your 
feelings but just start what do you 
think was some of the reasons why 
relationship didn't work out and then 
you can kind of go and and then say was 
there something that you didn't 
feel uh supported with or was there 
something that I I do that made you not 
attracted to me anymore or something 
like that and just and it again it's how 
you say it if you say it with a critical 
like so what like why didn't you like me 
you know like that sort of thing but if 
you approach it as like I genuinely just 
want to know this will help me and it 
you know I love you and I I loved our 
time together I realized it didn't work 
out I'm not asking to whatever I I'm 
just in a growth and development phase 
in my life and I just you know I I'm 
just trying to learn from my 
relationships um and I think that would 
definitely uh make a difference you know 
it's so funny we do this we work with 
some of our clients um many of our 
clients work with us for a year at Smart 
dating Academy and one of the very first 
exercises we have them do is what we 
call a 360 feedback and we give them the 
opportunity to send some verbiage in 
writing to people that are in their 
Village could be friends family 
colleagues exes to ask them the answer 
to one question and that answer comes 
directly to me not to my client why do 
you think blah blah blah hasn't found 
the right partner yet why do you think I 
haven't found the right partner yet and 
so the feedback that we get and we've 
been doing this for 12 years I could 
write a book just on the feedback that 
we've gotten about individual clients 
and the clients determine who those 
people are and the client does the reach 
out because if I do the reach out it 
feels judgmental and critical to that 
person's village and then they're like 
uh but if you for example as my client 
reached out to 10 of your people and 
said hey I'm working with this great 
coach and as part of this I would love 
for you to send her the answer to the 
following question why haven't I found 
the right partner yet I'm choosing you 
because you're amazing you're supportive 
and I promise I won't get my feelings 
hurt and then my team and I take that 
feedback and we look for patterns if 
somebody if one person says something 
I'm like me whatever it's an opinion but 
if three or more people say the same 
thing then it could be something that 
you're doing that's amazing and we want 
want you to do more of that or it could 
be one of those pesky little blind spots 
that we don't you know we may not know 
about or we're like man I thought only I 
knew that about myself but chances are 
everybody kind of knows right there's 
we're kind of a big open book of secrets 
we think we don't display these things 
but usually people are like n you kind 
of do that all the time so yeah it's 
really and like I've heard people say 
like yeah I'm so easygo and I don't 
understand why he didn't want to be I'm 
like 
like this is a friend of mine like we 
were talking about dating I'm just I'm 
so easygoing and like I I just go with 
the I'm like seriously you easygo what 
I'm easygoing like oh my God if you 
think you are easygoing like wow 
like oh my God that's hilarious I was 
talking to my sister-in-law who you know 
the other day I said well you know this 
person was just so intense I'm not sure 
that we're like a great match and en 
and she looked at me she's like um hey 
intense I was like really she's like 
really and so right it was a very like 
oh wow okay yeah I guess under certain 
circumstances I'm probably put into the 
intense quadrant She's Like H probably 
all of the time for anybody that knows 
you so it was hilarious I'm like wow 
that person's really intense she's like 
this is what we call the pot calling the 
kettle black so it was have these 
conversations with people that will give 
you that feedack back they'll put you 
right in your place oh yeah and the 
reason why I said that to her is because 
I remember she called me once and I was 
at this was in LA a few years ago I was 
at a Carl's Jr hamburger place and I'd 
been mountain biking and I was there 
with my friends we were eating 
cheeseburgers and she called me and 
she's like hey what are you doing I'm 
like oh I just at Carl's Jr she goes why 
are you eating that 
 so when she said I'm just I'm so 
easy going I don't know like 
you like you you criticized me for 
eating Carl Jr like what after a 
thousand ceter bike ride yeah I just 
burn 4,000 calories 
like that's hilarious oh I wish uh I 
wish we were in person I'd give you a 
big hug and thank you for all of your 
generosity and hopefully we can um we'll 
get this episode up really soon because 
Colin tell us about the Inspire Summit 
for those of you that are in Chicago and 
I'm so excited to be in it yes yes so 
this is our first in-person Inspire 
events so I've created my Inspire brand 
a couple years ago uh and it essentially 
build off of what I talk about in my 
book agile artists success principles 
mind body and spirit and uh I did a 
virtual Inspire event last year with six 
motivational speakers and just a variety 
of different people that talk on 
different topics of you had you talking 
about relationships and Entrepreneurship 
and and finance and uh just all kind of 
did the whole gamut of I Lov it speaking 
to being the best version of yourself 
mind body and spirit and on April 23rd 
here in Chicago at The Ambassador Hotel 
from 1:00 to 5 PM we are going to be 
doing uh a a 
motivational mind body and spirit uh 
we're going to have speakers myself I'm 
doing a keynote uh I'm going to be 
interviewing you we've got a guest panel 
so it's sh Chicago's 
top entrepreneurs in different areas of 
of uh of career and life and all that 
sort of thing and then afterwards at the 
pump room we're going to be doing uh an 
amazing networking event where you'll 
have the opportunity to meet other 
people who are just creating abundance 
and who are doing amazing things and 
that's going to be from 6: to 900 p.m. 
and uh you can go to my Instagram bio 
and up at the top there it's an event 
bright link to the Inspire virtual event 
again or sorry live event this is the 
first time we're doing live uh again on 
April 
23rd and uh yeah you're gonna be there 
and I can't wait I can't wait and I hope 
and I hope any of you that are sitting 
here in Chicago and wondering what to do 
on Saturday April 23rd col and I both 
want to meet you so make sure that you 
sign up for this there's going to be a 
link in my bio on my Instagram at Smart 
dating Academy and we'll also put a link 
to it in the show notes here so thank 
you Colin for being you thank you for 
this I can't wait for the Inspire Summit 
and as always my dear listener thank you 
for tuning in and we can't wait to see 
you next week have a good one 
thanks 
Bella 
