[Music] 
this is the episode that you've all been 
waiting for and i've been waiting for 
two rachel czar sex and relationship 
therapist at spark therapy what do you 
tell people about when it's okay or not 
okay to have sex for the first time 
therapist mantra it depends um but i 
think when we're talking about sex with 
a new partner it's all about 
intentionality and i think what happens 
is too often people get stuck in these 
kind of rules the one that i hear most 
often is the third date rule right oh 
don't get me going on the third game 
because first of all it sets these 
expectations it puts a ton of pressure 
and the problem is that when we're 
dating it's really more about feelings 
than it is about rules and logic and we 
just have to acknowledge that sex comes 
with a lot of feelings if it's not a yes 
yes yes it's uh how about we give it 
another date 
