with a narcissist when someone is that 
fractured it doesn't get healed a 
narcissist has this Brokenness this 
woundedness which actually has them have 
very very very very low self-esteem 
almost no self-esteem whatsoever even 
though they posture in such grandiose 
ways like peacocks they look like they 
have really high self-esteem but they 
actually have incredibly low self-esteem 
almost non-existent and so they attach 
themselves to you to gain their sense of 
self so they're going to attach 
themselves to someone who's really 
awesome and want to sort of almost like 
absorb your awesomeness to make them 
feel better and so in the beginning 
you're everything you are the most 
amazing person in the world because 
you're going to heal them and then over 
time when you don't because you can't 
because that's not your job and because 
that's not how it works we don't heal 
other people they will turn on you and 
then you're the bad guy 
