[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smartdators hi so good to be with you 
again in this mini podcast week and 
today I'm going to tell you and answer 
the question about why are you afraid of 
commitment or maybe why are there so 
many people out there that are afraid of 
commitment and what are some things that 
we can do to figure that out in steps 
that we can take now 
um what I'm telling you is the advice 
that we give at Smart dating Academy we 
are date coaches with a lot of 
experience we aren't therapists we're 
not psychiatrists but we understand a 
lot about how fear of commitment and 
attachment issues can play out in the 
dating world and we've successfully held 
the hands of many people in the dating 
world and the dating process that either 
have fear of commitment that we can help 
to alleviate and lay those fears by 
meeting somebody that's actually good 
for you and on the flip side we help a 
lot of our clients stay away from people 
that have fears of commitments and 
identifying those people early so that 
we don't waste time and get heartbroken 
by somebody that is afraid of commitment 
now the question you might ask yourself 
is you know especially if you feel like 
you're afraid of commitment or you know 
more mysteriously if somebody that 
you've fallen in love with is afraid of 
commitment what could it be right 
there's a variety of reasons right I 
mean the obvious reason maybe and this 
is a very light reason maybe this person 
doesn't want to commit to you because 
they're truly not into you right and 
this is the kind of person that maybe 
dates you and says I'm afraid of 
commitment but then gets married to 
somebody you know a year later who knows 
what that's all about but there are 
those people but people that are truly 
afraid of commitment and not just giving 
us you know uh just those kinds of words 
that don't really ring authentically 
because you watch what they do 
um later on down the line people are 
afraid of commitment because it could be 
quote unquote attachment issue stuff now 
you might be familiar with attachment 
issues it's certainly gained a lot more 
fire in the last several years we talk a 
lot about it and specifically how 
attachments play out in the dating world 
we have an awesome love lab Workshop 
called fix your picker which really 
helps you to understand oh my God am I 
anxious or avoidant or anxious or 
voidant or secure and what I can tell 
you guys is that attachment systems can 
change depending on who you're in a 
relationship with but now let's say if 
you're truly afraid of commitment it can 
be because of attachment issues what 
does that mean it means that you had 
parents and something that your parents 
did one parent both parents or maybe 
just based on who you are you didn't 
feel that your needs were adequately met 
by one or both of your parents and you 
came to realize as little you that 
really the only person that could take 
care of you was you right and you 
started to say relationships don't work 
the only person that can really take 
care of me is me because I didn't attach 
very well to my caregivers right and so 
that's what's classically a person 
that's avoidant and those are tough 
people to be in relationships with it's 
not impossible to or if you're the avoid 
and it's not impossible to find love it 
just requires support around you right 
now why else people might have trauma 
right they might have sexual abuse they 
might have 
terrible things that have happened to 
them in their youth or even in their 20s 
30s or 40s I've heard 
absolutely heart-wrenching stories of 
things that have happened to our clients 
both male and female that cause a lot of 
trauma and a lot of trust issues which 
make them afraid of commitment and 
sometimes what we fear is being with 
somebody that's going to hurt us and 
break our hearts again and sometimes 
what we focus on grows when we're so 
afraid of being hurt again who do we 
pick again we pick people that hurt us 
it's like if I tell you to look around a 
room and say okay tell me all the people 
that are wearing red you're going to 
come back with your dutiful little 
notepad and you're going to tell me 
Bella at this party seven people were 
wearing red then if I ask you okay 
friend how many people were wearing 
green you would say well I didn't look 
at that because you told me to focus on 
who's wearing red and that's exactly 
what happens when we do things from a 
place of fear we often tend to make the 
wrong decisions that lead to the results 
that we're afraid of right so people 
that are also afraid of commitment 
people that have continuously made the 
wrong choices and they're Once Bitten 
Twice bitten three times bitten right 
they've had previous heart breaks and 
they just can't they can't 
think about committing to somebody again 
because they're so afraid again of 
Abandonment of rejection of getting 
their hearts broken right and some 
people have what I call fear of 
commitment because of fomo right fear of 
missing out they're what we call 
maximizers if you've read the Barry 
Schwartz book called The Paradox of 
choice he talks about two kinds of 
people satisfizers and maximizers right 
and maximizers are the kinds of people 
that he tells a great story in the book 
um and I'll give you an example if the 
mission between two people ones that 
satisficer and one's a maximizer is to 
go out and buy a black cashmere sweater 
he says in the book that uh satisfier a 
satisficer will say okay what do I need 
in a cashmere sweater I want something 
that fits me well it's not too big it's 
not too small it's not itchy and it's 
200 or less and the satisfy bikes or 
walks into Saks Fifth Avenue finds a 
black cashmere sweater tries it on it 
fits it's 150 bucks they're like Yay 
mission accomplished I'm done sweater 
and bag goes home the maximizer would go 
to Saks see the same sweater and go this 
is really nice and it fits what I'm 
looking for but let me just go down to 
Neiman's and to Nordstroms into 
Nordstrom Rack and to Bloomingdale's and 
to Zara and let me see if I can't find a 
better black cashmere sweater right and 
what ends up happening is the maximizer 
we all think would be happier and would 
get the ideal black sweater but the 
maximizer can't commit to one black 
sweater because they always feel that 
there's something better out there most 
research shows that satisfizers are 
ultimately half happier than maximizers 
so fear of missing out you know those 
people that are constantly dating with 
one eye open one third of my clients 
come from New York City and they'll 
always say in New York it just feels 
like people are dating with one eye open 
like who's coming around the corner 
right so those people are also afraid of 
commitment for fear of settling for an 
option that may not be the best and 
those people often are in the dating 
World year over year decade over decade 
because there's might just be someone 
better that's out there so these are 
classic you know symptoms of people or 
reasons that people can be afraid of 
commitment and there's also one other 
one that I've seen play out over 13 
years people that have a tremendous 
cultural or religious pressure put on 
them to maybe marry somebody within 
their ethnicity their diaspora their 
religion sometimes those people people 
can be afraid to commit because they 
have so much family pressure on them 
that they don't feel like anybody is 
good enough or they just don't have a 
supply and ample supply of people within 
their religious 
um Faith or their ethnicity to find 
someone so they're constantly just 
holding out for what's best so these are 
the reasons that people can you fear 
commitment you know through trauma 
through attachment through fomo through 
just a series of bad decisions so the 
question is you know maybe you're 
identifying with this going wow maybe 
I'm afraid of commitment or you can hear 
this and say geez I have a history of 
picking people that don't want to commit 
to relationships at all now what do you 
do with that right 
um seeking out a great a village around 
you right and I wouldn't even say for 
this you you know I'm big on saying find 
a village of people that support you 
right your friends your family people 
that can help you but if you fear that 
these are the issues that you're either 
picking people that are afraid of 
commitment or you are afraid of 
commitment because of trauma then that 
might be an issue best left to having 
personal trainers for your love life 
have a great dating coach have a great 
therapist you might need CBT talk 
therapy you might need EMDR therapy you 
know and properly qualified therapists 
can tell you what's best for you and 
even at Smart dating Academy while we 
date coach we have lots and lots of 
clients that concurrently see therapists 
because therapy and coaching is an 
amazing pairing to make it through this 
dating world so 
um there is a lot of help out there if 
you feel that this might be you or 
you're picking people that are always 
afraid of committing to you right 
they're good people they just can't make 
commitments I actually in my research 
found something really interesting that 
there's even a phobia that goes beyond 
attachment and Trauma and it's called 
gamophobia it's an actual phobia a fear 
of commitment or fear of marriage 
g-a-m-o phobia it says a fear of 
commitment or marriage can keep you from 
enjoying meaningful relationships a 
painful breakup divorce or abandonment 
during childhood or adulthood may make 
you afraid to commit to someone you love 
Psychotherapy and coaching can 
potentially help you to overcome this 
commitment phobia mainly Psychotherapy 
right and people who have gamophobia 
have a serious fear of commitment and 
this fear is so intense that they often 
find it impossible to have long-term 
relationship and why is it called 
gamophobia again Amos is the Greek word 
for marriage right and Phobos means fear 
so some people can't commit to you know 
long-term things like picking a college 
a career choice picking a place to live 
what kind of car to buy but the this 
fear of commitment gamophobia is 
specifically fear of personal 
relationships right and people with 
gamma phobia may be unable to form 
lasting relationships they experience 
extreme anxiety when in a relationship 
and constantly worry about the 
relationship ending they feel anxiety 
when they see happily committed couples 
or they push people away or end 
relationships abruptly right so people 
that have a family history 
of gamophobia or high anxiety attachment 
issues all of these can lead to fear uh 
it can lead to gamophobia and gamophobia 
actually has symptoms if you feel chills 
dizziness lightheadedness excessive 
sweating heart palpitations nausea 
shortness of breath trembling or shaking 
right it's definitely best to see a 
mental health Professor but that's a 
very very skinny branch of people most 
likely if you're listening to this 
hopefully you have what I call a garden 
variety fear of commitment that can be 
resolved that isn't a true phobia or you 
can stop picking people that have fear 
of commitment by working with a company 
like us at Smart dating Academy we have 
an extraordinary level of success with 
helping people to be pick happy people 
and get into relationships so I hope 
this little mini has helped you think 
about people that are afraid of 
commitment or maybe you're afraid of 
commitment and as always we are here to 
serve you follow us on Instagram at 
smartdatingacademy sign up for our 
newsletter at smartdatingacademy.com or 
Best Yet schedule a one-on-one 
consultation to see how you can best 
work with us so we can help you overcome 
your fear of commitment or get you in 
the right space to do it or to pick 
people that aren't afraid of commitment 
smart daters until next time sending you 
big love and big doses of psychotic 
optimism 
