[Music] 
today's episode is all about toxic 
friendships toxic relationships and what 
our guest dr elizabeth lombardo calls 
staying out of the red zone you know 
you're in a toxic relationship if you 
feel worse about yourself when you're 
with that person 
or even thinking about being with that 
person if your vibrations your 
vibrational state is low and you really 
think i'm not good enough or this is the 
best friendship i've ever had or i ever 
could have everybody leaves me right and 
when we're messaging ourselves from this 
then we become more apt to continue to 
tolerate this so at a certain point when 
you get yourself into therapy or 
coaching and work on these issues and 
address that more fundamentally that you 
are good enough and that you are 
a person that people want to be around 
and you elevate your own vibrational 
level you'll start to bring in those 
people 
