[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
smart taters hello I'm happy to be here 
for you again in this week of mini 
podcasts so let's hop right to it and 
let's talk about one of my favorite 
controversial points and if you've been 
following me for a while you know I tend 
to say things sometimes that aren't 
exactly what you've heard throughout 
your life in dating or what the other 
you know 117 
987 dating books say so 
um I've been saying this for 14 years 
and it seems like it's catching on now 
with therapists but the topic today is 
butterflies in your stomach while dating 
okay now 
butterflies are bad 
after the first date now why is this I'm 
going to give you a a little bit of a 
history of young Bella so had dated some 
great guys 
and in high school college but then I 
thought you know I've never had that 
Hollywood experience where I've had 
butterflies in my stomach I want to be 
swept off my feet I want all of the 
things that romance is truly made of so 
um I started looking around and my gauge 
was people that would give me 
butterflies and what I soon found out is 
that everybody who gave me butterflies 
in the beginning after dates one two 
three four five and the butterflies 
would get stronger and stronger it was 
an intense rush for the first I don't 
know for first date to four months but 
you know with every relationship I had 
that gave me butterflies I ended up flat 
on my back on the ground broken up with 
tortured and I thought gosh why is this 
butterfly thing not working for me and 
then I you guys know the story I did my 
own GHQ list started dating Andy who I 
had been friends with for six years 
we've been married for 25 years and so 
now as I come and I started Smart dating 
Academy in 2009 I started to do research 
and I started to put more data behind 
the anecdotal on gut things that I had 
felt and I will tell you that from a 
clinical standpoint and from an 
anecdotal standpoint of my clients for 
the last 14 years butterflies are indeed 
bad do you know what they are they're 
not excitement remember if you're an 
excitement women are very closely 
related and mistaken emotions what 
butterflies actually are 
your body's saying there's fear up ahead 
danger Will Robinson I've been here 
before put on your Nikes and run and yet 
we're acculturated to think oh my God I 
feel butterflies in my stomach I must 
really like him or I must really like 
her so I want to tell you these aren't 
the kinds of butterflies that you might 
feel you know I do a lot of public 
speaking a lot of TV these aren't the 
little butterflies that I feel and 
sometimes big butterflies when I'm on 
Good Morning America or the Today Show 
something where you know when I'm in New 
York in studio and you feel that 
nervousness like oh my gosh I don't want 
to panic I'm not talking about those 
butterflies these are after you've been 
on a date with somebody right you feel 
those churning butterflies like your 
stomach keeps slipping over and dates 
two three four five six you feel the 
same way what it is is your body telling 
you there's anxiety you've been to this 
Rodeo before right it's fear it's 
anxiety and a lot of us that have 
dysfunctional dating patterns we want to 
feel that we want to get on the bad 
roller coaster of bad attachment we want 
to feel high highs and low lows because 
that feels exhilarating but remember the 
highs never stay high and the lows 
always get lower so what I want you to 
know as you get out there when you're 
dating if you feel those heavy duty 
butterflies in your stomach after the 
first date second date third date fourth 
date fifth date chances are you're 
dating somebody who is not good for you 
and your intuition and your gut are 
smarter than you are so I hope that you 
know butterflies are bad in the dating 
process we've had zero divorces in 14 
years very few breakups even when our 
clients follow our procedures so I can 
tell you with great certainty both from 
my own dating history from my clients 
dating history and the research out 
there will tell you that anything you do 
from a place of fear or anxiety usually 
never leads you to a good decision so 
next time you feel butterflies in your 
stomach when you're dating somebody pay 
attention is it fear is it anxiety it 
most likely is so until next time I give 
you a big hug and lots of uh fairy dust 
and psychotic optimism love you 
