[Music] 
welcome to the Smart dating Academy 
podcast I'm Bella Gandhi the founder of 
Smart dating Academy and your host I 
started Smart dating Academy in 2009 
because I had this crazy Knack of giving 
people dating advice that actually 
worked that I took I've been married for 
almost 25 years and now my company helps 
people to date smarter and to find love 
this podcast is meant to bring more love 
into your life no matter where you are 
and what you do and we're here to bring 
more life into your love 
welcome back I'm so excited to talk to 
you today about one of the most Googled 
questions 
in the dating world and that question is 
will dating a friend ruin the 
relationship so let's jump right into 
this 
so the answer to this question 
as you might expect is complicated and 
there isn't a firm yes or a firm no 
let's just suffice it to say it's going 
to depend on you it's going to depend on 
the friend and it's going to depend on a 
whole lot of other variables 
um so to give you some context around 
this I believe through personal 
experience that this can 
150 percent be an amazing decision to 
date someone that you're friends with 
now for those of you who might not know 
Andy and I went to high school together 
and we were friends in high school we 
became better friends because we both 
went to college together and we ended up 
living in the same dorm and when you go 
to a school of 40 000 people anybody 
that you know from home instantly 
becomes and even even better friend the 
first day of college so we became good 
friends good friends I came in with the 
boyfriend into college who went to the 
Naval Academy and he came in with the 
girlfriend who went to Madison and we 
bonded over our long-distance 
relationships and we started studying 
together we hung out together and 
everybody that knew us told us you two 
are meant to be together and we're like 
oh my gosh no I'm like he's more like a 
girlfriend than a guy friend to me right 
and I always had a boyfriend so I 
rotated through guys and he was there 
for all of it and one day when I started 
to get my dating mental house in order 
um I started I put together the 
predecessor to the Smart dating Academy 
marriage map which was my own process to 
look at all of my relationships what 
worked what didn't work what drew me to 
these people 
um what was their responsibility in the 
breakup what was mine and so through 
this whole host of analyzes that we 
still do today it led me to look at Andy 
in a different light and suffice it to 
say that a year later we started dating 
three years later we got engaged and 
we've now been married for over 25 years 
so I believe 
um and I wanted to give you that context 
to let you know I have a lot of 
experience around this topic so 
um but that was us and that doesn't 
necessarily mean that it's going to be 
you so let's take a step back if you're 
friends with somebody and you're 
debating dating that and uh I don't know 
if it's going to ruin the friendship or 
not remember you've got some key 
advantages in this scenario already 
you've seen this person you've observed 
this person in different contexts 
different scenarios for months years or 
decades right you've seen their goods 
you've seen their beds you've seen their 
highs their lows you know when they're 
and when they have work when they're out 
of work whatever it is but you've seen 
this person kind of at their rawest 
especially if you're really good friends 
the way Andy and I were so so here's a 
list of 
eight things to consider 
if dating a particular friend is going 
to ruin your friendship or if it can be 
good for you so the first thing I want 
you to consider is what's changed for 
you what's making you attracted to this 
person now right did you witness them 
doing something that you found very 
alluring or intoxicating did something 
they say just checked according you and 
made you feel really good about yourself 
and maybe tipped your feelings over the 
line right what changed I want you to 
make sure sure that you aren't just 
hating the dating process you're not 
hating being single and you're just 
using this person as Mr or Miss right 
now versus Mr Miss Right which is what I 
advocate for because that's definitely 
not a good thing and if you are just 
bored or lonely or think this is just 
like a casual thing you can do and you 
know maybe be friends with benefits or 
really start dating them but you're not 
super serious about it that move will 
probably most likely end up with the 
relationship that is a dumpster fire and 
will end the Friendship so really 
understand what is making you want to 
date this person and put the mirror up 
to yourself and really hold yourself 
accountable or if you need to talk to a 
friend talk to a family member schedule 
a consultation with the therapist or a 
coach and really talk through why you're 
considering dating one of your friends 
and is it healthy for you now 
the second thing I want you to think 
about this is a friend and you've 
observed them how did they treat other 
people that they've been in 
relationships with were they good to 
them did they cheat on them were they 
ghosters did they talk badly about them 
what was this person like in other 
relationships because guess what dear 
friend I don't want you to think you're 
so special that you're going to change 
somebody people show us who they are 
it's up to us to believe them if you 
don't like the way that they have showed 
up in their previous 
relationships right maybe consider 
keeping this at a friendship level 
because if this person doesn't have a 
good track record and cheats on and 
ghosts and breaks up with people or 
maybe is emotionally avoided they might 
not be a good relationship bet for you 
and dating them might or probably will 
cause your friendship to end now the 
third thing that I want you to think 
about and is when they've broken up with 
people how did those breakups happen and 
how are the relationships with the 
people that they've broken up with I 
know when Andy and I were considering 
dating one of the conversations that I 
remember us having at 22 is well you 
know and we had no skeletons in our 
closets because we had been friends with 
each other he knew everybody I did I 
knew everybody he dated and so we both 
said to each other like we're both 
pretty nice rational people we don't 
burn bridges in our relationships we've 
been pretty honest with their breakups 
which has led to us being cordial or 
even friendly with our exes so we 
figured well neither of us leave a trail 
of blood and disasters so I think we'll 
be okay right and so really think about 
how is this person's relationship with 
people that they've broken up with right 
if somebody's coming back to slash their 
tires or something like that you might 
want to consider just keeping this a 
friendship or thinking I don't know this 
friendship might be ruined because this 
person isn't good relationship material 
now the fourth thing that I want you to 
think about right we can get so 
intoxicated and sucked in because we 
know this person we know their struggles 
we know their ups and their downs the 
insides of their daily lives maybe you 
both like art maybe you both like to 
watch the same things on TV but that 
doesn't necessarily mean that your 
friendship could be a good relationship 
it means you have fun together as 
friends what I want you to think about 
instead is do you value the same things 
do you both want similar things out of 
life do you value honesty do you value 
ambition do you value extended family 
what is it that you both value and are 
you aligned with that so the fact that 
you're listening to this podcast maybe 
take some time to really introspect 
about your potential friend that could 
turn into something more do we value the 
same things and if you don't know that 
start to poke around to find out what 
this person values right where do they 
want to be in five years ten years 
what's their idea of success right you 
want to know these things before you hop 
into a relationship with someone based 
on you know just premises that might not 
be important for a romantic relationship 
now the fifth thing to think about 
before you you know is dating a friend 
gonna ruin the relationship right you 
want to really talk about and think 
about this particular friend do you like 
their other friends do you like the 
people they hang out with besides you so 
if this person is hanging out with a 
bunch of slim shadys you know people 
that aren't good people that influence 
them in a negative way you know that's 
just waiting to come back and bite you 
so if you don't like their other friends 
then I would say really consider if this 
friendship is something that you want to 
turn into a relationship because I'm 
playing the long game here right the 
title of this podcast is Will dating a 
friend ruin the Friendship I'm saying 
look at the Friendship but look at the 
things that are important in dating and 
if these things don't align before you 
you turn the Friendship into a 
relationship then you're going to be in 
much better shape for having not done 
that for listening to this now number 
six 
we're good for 
good for good partners for each other 
good good friends are one thing but do 
your skills complement each other where 
you're strong are they weak were you 
there weak are you strong maybe they're 
more extroverted are you more 
introverted right they're super bold but 
you're the softer side of them do your 
skills complement each other would you 
be good partners maybe you're terrible 
with money and you want someone who's 
going to be good with money and keep 
your financial house in order maybe 
you're messy and you want someone who's 
more neat think about these things and 
look at the person that you're friends 
with Through The Eyes of being in a 
relationship with them so then you don't 
take a friendship and try to convert it 
into a relationship that doesn't work 
out that's going to end up in flame so 
set the thing the seventh thing that I 
want you to think about is do you like 
their habits do you like the way they 
live their lives on a daily basis do you 
like what they do when they wake up in 
the morning do you like the fact that 
they work out every day right do you 
like what they do for work do you 
respect what they do for work are they 
consistent with that so really think 
about what would it be like to 
cohabitate and shack up with this person 
do we live similar lives or am I an 
early riser and that person is a total 
late night person right by the time I 
have to get up they're just going to bed 
you might not be compatible in a 
romantic relationship so and the eighth 
and final Point what I want you to think 
about is how is their relationship with 
their family right I know we can't pick 
our families of Origins and I know some 
of us have parents that you know maybe 
we didn't want to have or didn't treat 
us as well as they could they did the 
best that they could but look at how 
this person relates to their extended 
family their mom their dad maybe their 
two moms their Two Dads they're siblings 
they're aunts their uncles do they have 
good relationships with their family do 
they value family can they keep up 
relationships with people right these 
are all so important to think about 
before you take a friendship and just 
kind of mindlessly turn it into a 
relationship because this person is a 
good bet if you don't have these eight 
things thought about and sorted out I 
would say tread carefully before you 
transfer this friendship into a romantic 
relationship because if the Romantic 
relationship doesn't work out your 
friendship will be affected right and 
realize if you decide that you're going 
to move forward with things okay you've 
heard these eight points and you're like 
yeah you know what I got all this I want 
to date this person I want to take our 
friendship to a relationship well no 
that it's going to feel awkward in the 
beginning because you're entering a new 
phase of a relationship you've been 
friends with this person right when you 
make out with this person maybe you 
sleep over at this person's house it's 
going to feel a little bit awkward 
because it's a brand new context for 
this individual friendships are very 
different than romances now remember I 
think a great friendship is the key to a 
long-term romance and a friendship but 
it's got to be a friendship that has 
these things aligned as well before you 
jump into a romance and if you decide to 
flip it over the line like Andy and I 
did so many years ago make sure sure 
that you're so honest with each other at 
every step don't hold anything back 
honesty and being able to use your voice 
and having communication in this 
romantic relationship is going to be so 
important for you don't revert back to 
Old patterns where you don't have a 
voice or you're afraid of saying 
something because you're afraid this 
person is going to leave you trust your 
instincts and trust that you can use 
your voice because if this is a friend 
they're going to want to know your 
honest truth at every step of the game 
and no guys no matter what when you 
convert a friendship to a relationship I 
hope it stands the test of time like 
mine did but realize that even with best 
intentions if your romantic relationship 
doesn't work out and you can go back to 
being friends understand that you're not 
going to have the same friendship you 
had before the romance started for most 
people that friendship evolves into 
something different maybe you won't feel 
as close maybe one of you caught 
stronger feelings for the other but just 
know that your relationship will come 
out the other side different than it is 
now and you can remain remain friends if 
you're both careful but it's definitely 
going to be a different relationship so 
I hope today these eight points answer 
your question about will dating a friend 
ruin the Friendship well play the long 
game think about these eight things 
before you decide to convert this 
friendship into something that you want 
somebody that you want to date but if 
these eight things all align then I 
think for both of you and that's key 
these things have to align for both of 
you that you have a really good shot of 
taking an amazing friendship and turning 
it into a romance that will stand the 
test of time so I wish you all that as 
well if you haven't yet subscribed to 
our newsletter go to 
smartdatingacademy.com and fill out any 
contact form follow me on Instagram at 
smartdating Academy and if you're really 
ready to take a leap into dating then 
schedule a one-on-one consultation 
invest in yourself buy one on our 
website with me for 30 or 60 Minutes or 
jump into our VIP coaching program for 
three six or 12 months that's where you 
will make the biggest changes of your 
life for the positive trust me I've been 
doing this for 14 years I will wrap you 
in pink sparkly bubble wrap and make 
sure that you don't get hurt along the 
way so I look forward to talking to you 
again next week on another loving dating 
and relationship topic and until then 
have a beautiful week 
