foreign 
[Music] 
dating Academy podcast I'm bellagande 
the founder of Smart dating Academy and 
your host I started Smart dating Academy 
in 2009 because I had this crazy Knack 
of giving people dating advice that 
actually worked that I took I've been 
married for almost 25 years and now my 
company helps people to date smarter and 
to find love this podcast is meant to 
bring more love into your life no matter 
where you are and what you do and we're 
here to bring more life into your love 
let's jump right into it today 
we're going to talk about the n-word 
it's a different n-word that you might 
be thinking about I didn't even think 
that until it came out of my mouth 
um but the n-word I'm talking about is a 
word that is very easily thrown around 
about our exes about people we've dated 
about people were related to people that 
we work with people that we work for 
people that we're related to and that 
word is three syllables and it's 
narcissist 
how many of you raise your hand know a 
narcissist or think you might know a 
narcissist 
or maybe just maybe 
you dated a narcissist 
or maybe you married a narcissist or 
wait maybe you married and divorced to 
narcissists or three narcissists I've 
had someone come to me that had had five 
husbands before she found her last and 
final one so the word narcissist 
do we use it right do we know what it 
means I think a lot of times what we 
mean is that this person that I am 
referring to as a narcissist is a jerk 
maybe kind of an a-hole you know what I 
mean now is that person just a jerk or 
an a-hole or are they truly a narcissist 
so a lot of times 
they might just be a jerk who's even 
acting like a narcissist and let's face 
it what one of the tenets of being a 
narcissist it's low self-esteem number 
one but it's also being very 
self-absorbed and at the end of the day 
human beings were inherently selfish 
right many of us learn to nurture learn 
to give learn to be interdependent with 
others but at the end of the day we were 
born screaming crying you know to get 
our needs met by our parents we were 
born selfish now just because we can be 
selfish doesn't make us a narcissist 
right narcissism has 
um this is called the NPD it's 
narcissistic personality disorder and 
it's diagnosed by a clinician by a 
therapist a psychiatrist or a 
psychologist and it is I'll read you 
what it says here narcissistic 
personality disorder is a pattern 
pattern of grandiosity Need for 
admiration and lack of empathy for the 
diagnostic and statistic Manual of 
mental disorders the 
DSM-5 so it is a personality disorder it 
is considered mental illness some people 
may have a genetic predisposition to it 
some people may not but it is a it is a 
very toxic painful thing to live with 
and for those of you who have lived with 
someone who has been diagnosed with NPD 
or should have been diagnosed with NPD 
it's really brutal so I'm gonna read you 
straight and tell you from the DSM-5 
okay what this says is a pervasive 
pattern of grandiosity basically fantasy 
or behavior they exaggerate achievements 
expects to be recognized as you Superior 
so that's the first thing a pervasive 
pattern of someone who fantasizes 
themselves to be amazing they lie about 
their achievements and they want to be 
recognized as Superior okay now you've 
got to have at least five of the 
following characteristics that one has a 
grandiose sense of self-importance or 
number two is preoccupied with fantasies 
of success power Brilliance beauty or 
perfect love number three believes that 
they are special and can only be 
understood or should only associate with 
other special people or special 
institutions number four requires 
excessive admiration number five has a 
sense of entitlement such as 
unreasonable expectation a favorable 
treatment or compliance with his or her 
expectations number six is exploitative 
and takes advantage of others to achieve 
their own ends number 7 lacks empathy 
and is unwilling to identify with the 
needs of others number eight is often 
envious of others or believes that 
others are envious of them and number 
nine shows arrogant haughty behaviors 
and attitudes right so you've got to 
have five out of nine of those in a 
variety of contexts to be diagnosed and 
according to therapists people with 
narcissistic personality disorder can be 
some of the most aggressive and most 
challenging patients that they have but 
people often ask me 
well you help us make sure that we don't 
end up with a narcissist again or ever 
but what happens Bella if a narcissist 
comes to Smart dating Academy let me 
tell you this 
narcissists never think that they have a 
problem narcissists don't think that 
they need a coach or a therapist you are 
always the problem they are always the 
victim right everybody else woe is me my 
wife sucks my husband's socks my boss 
has it out for me my colleagues they 
tried it they're trying to malign me 
they don't want me to be successful 
whatever it is 
narcissists always play the victim they 
have nothing to change so they don't 
seek out a service like mine okay now 
this is what the DSM says narcissistic 
personality disorder is now some of 
these may sound familiar to you but let 
me tell you how we've kind of made this 
more comprehensible in the dating world 
we have on our website 
smartdatingacademy.com a little 
infographic that you can download which 
is seven clues that you were dating or 
in a relationship with a narcissist what 
are the telltale signs to look out for 
right now what I'll tell you is it's an 
interesting thing it's an interesting 
name right because narcissists are named 
after the Greek mythical figure 
narcissus who fell in love with his own 
image right that's who it was narcissus 
wasn't the only one who fell in love 
with himself everyone who came across 
him loved him as well right so we talk 
about narcissists one of the first 
things that we tell our clients to watch 
out for in the dating world is typically 
they can be 
extremely Charming they can be well 
dressed charismatic Life of the Party 
okay and who doesn't want to be around 
that person they're like the chandelier 
that lights up the room or lights up the 
party great storytelling they Regale 
everybody with their tails but now if 
you look at it on the flip side now that 
you know just because somebody's really 
charming and charismatic does this 
person want to be the center of 
attention and if somebody else joins in 
the conversation or tries to divert The 
Narcissist from whatever they're talking 
about do they get upset do they hijack 
the conversation back to themselves a 
narcissist wants to be a center the 
center of all attention and they want 
the conversation to focus on one person 
me me me me me me me me 
right that was lovely and a little Out 
Of Tune sorry about that that so and now 
the second way to really detect in your 
dating life that someone is narcissistic 
or maybe a full-blown NPD 
narcissist 
is they're very selfish now I know five 
minutes ago I just said that we're all 
born selfish and that all humans are 
selfish and let's just all be honest we 
can act selfishly that's fine it's our 
DNA it's how we survive in the world if 
we weren't selfish we wouldn't we 
wouldn't have gotten our needs met when 
we were infants we cried and we screamed 
and we hollered and we kicked our feet 
and moved our you know kind of pounded 
our fists until we got what we want 
right and that's just part of being 
humans we have to survive we have to 
survive life on this Earth and get our 
needs met but with the narcissist it's 
different they are incredibly selfish 
and often if not always selfish 
pervasively selfish let's say you can 
give and give and give and they might 
say I'm a giver and you're a taker and 
you give some more because you're like 
oh my God all I want to do is give let 
me make you your lunch let me make your 
dinner and I'm going to clean up and I'm 
going to work a job whatever you do is 
never ever enough because they are one 
thing and one thing only selfish right 
you can give you can cater to their 
every whim hand foot down on your knees 
but they will say what it's still not 
enough you are a taker right you're 
always wrong and they're always right 
that's how it can manifest in your 
dating life okay so incredibly Charming 
maybe and now there are also the covert 
narcissists who may not be life of the 
party that can be like the dark Broody 
ones that kind of sit there and you 
think oh wow they're really charming and 
aloof and can also be narcissistic so 
they don't always have to be the life of 
the party but they often can be right A 
lot of people that you see that are very 
public figures you know sometimes 
politicians famous media people you know 
all I'm sure people around them might 
say 
might be NPD diagnosable right so they 
typically like the Limelight they want 
to be the center of attention and having 
people cater to all their whims now not 
everybody who's out in the public is a 
narcissist at him your present company 
included but you know you I think you're 
gonna get what I mean about this level 
of selfishness that they have now 
number three and this came out of what I 
read in the DSM they have an exaggerated 
sense of self-importance what does that 
mean they believe that they are special 
and that special people like them 
maybe they're incredibly smart or 
incredibly successful or incredibly 
blank blank blank but they live in A 
League of Their Own 
none of us measure up to that league and 
they should only associate with people 
of that equivalent status they should we 
should part the ocean for them to walk 
into a room they don't need to wait in 
lines life has velvet ropes for them 
they shouldn't have to wrap around a 
corner waiting to get into the coolest 
newest bar they feel that they are 
entitled because of who they are to walk 
right in they deserve special treatment 
that is a narcissist they have an 
exaggerated sense of self-importance 
it's not that this person really is 
someone Super Famous and someone who has 
an Entourage and all of that this person 
is a regular Joe or Jane schmoe but they 
believe 
delusionally that they have this sense 
of self-importance right so that's a 
rough rough thing to live with and to be 
around I've seen people like that not 
fun at all all and it certainly isn't 
for the fun for the people that are in 
their orbit and now narcissism what did 
I say when we first kicked off it's 
ultimately a personality disorder and a 
mental illness right so and it's sadly 
born out of incredibly low self-esteem 
isn't that ironic though because they 
have this grandiose sense of self right 
they think that they're amazing their 
life of the party they have an 
exaggerated sense of self but what it 
comes down to ultimately is a very very 
low self-esteem they don't love 
themselves they don't think anything of 
themselves which is why they have to 
create all these delusions of grandeur 
and what do they need from us as their 
friends as their kids as their Partners 
as their as their boyfriends as their 
girlfriends husbands wives they need 
constant compliments and adulation okay 
they always want to hear how amazing 
they are why don't you tell me how great 
I am are you jealous of me right I'm so 
amazing and you just can't tell me that 
right people are just jealous they just 
don't they can't give me the compliments 
I deserve they constantly need accolades 
they need compliments all the time but 
they never give them out 
unless they want something from you and 
when a narcissist wants something from 
you 
lo and behold look out they are Charming 
they are intoxicating they will 
compliment you they will love bomb you 
they will tell you everything you have 
ever dreamed of reading more romantic 
than a Harlequin romance novel more 
romantic than any rom-com that you've 
ever seen they will love bomb you tell 
you all of the things you couldn't be 
more gorgeous you couldn't be more sexy 
blah blah blah all of the things but 
ultimately it's all a ruse to get what 
they want and at that point it could be 
you because you're the object of their 
affection but at a certain point a 
narcissist will turn on you and at that 
point you will be left completely 
Gaslight you have no idea what just 
happened to you yesterday you were the 
bee's knees the cats meow and today 
you're annoying you're depressing and 
you're a terrible partner and you're 
like wait what what what just happened 
Okay so 
if I haven't convinced you by now that 
narcissists are not good bets for 
relationships ladies and gentlemen 
narcissists are not good bets for 
relationships right and both men and 
women 
unfortunately can have chronic 
attractions to narcissists especially if 
we grew up with one or maybe two parents 
or maybe it was a sibling if we were 
surrounded and and were in a close 
relationship growing up with someone who 
was narcissistic chances are we 
understand that behavior and we're 
comfortable with that behavior it 
doesn't mean that we like it we like the 
flashes in the pan good parts of what 
that person can bring to our life but 
they are not good bets for relationships 
and if you find yourself thinking oh my 
gosh I think my mom was a narcissist or 
my brother was a narcissist and you have 
this chronic attraction and every time 
you think you've won and you've met 
someone and this person is not a 
narcissist and they're amazing and I 
Know It And I Know It And I Know It And 
then all of a sudden you'll end up flat 
on your back four months later or maybe 
six months later or four years later and 
you're like what the hell just happened 
I was Bamboozled all over again you may 
have a dating pattern that needs 
intervention and a good intervention 
usually therapy and coaching are what's 
necessary to have that intervention to 
stop being attracted to dating and 
allowing narcissists into your life okay 
so now we've been over my four things 
about narcissists I've got a couple more 
narcissist like I I read you earlier 
from the DSM they lack empathy okay 
they have zero empathy a true narcissist 
can not feel the feelings of others they 
cannot step into your shoes they cannot 
understand what it was like when your 
parents disinvited you for Thanksgiving 
they have no capacity to get into your 
shoes they have no idea how to 
understand 
what you were going through at work on a 
day-to-day basis in the environment that 
you're in maybe your boss is rough maybe 
your colleagues aren't listening to you 
but your partner has no empathy they're 
like man must be your fault I can't 
imagine it they have no 
idea they have no ability to think what 
was that person be feeling because 
ultimately all they can think about is 
themselves they have zero empathy now 
you hear about like serial killers and 
people like kids that look like they 
hurt animals and you know do evil things 
to animals and other kids right that is 
clearly lacking zero empathy that is 
like anti-social psychotic behavior 
probably different than someone who is 
you know Garden variety narcissist but 
keep in mind that they don't have 
empathy and most importantly with 
relation to you they don't have empathy 
they don't care what you feel because 
it's all about them and it is so so so 
so so hard to live with someone who has 
zero empathy and for those of you out 
there that have lived with this or are 
living with this I'm putting my arms 
around you right wrapping you up in a 
pink sparkly love based hug telling you 
you are amazing and I see you and I have 
empathy for what you're going through 
and there is another way you don't have 
to deal with this forever right and if 
you've just extricated yourself from a 
relationship with a narcissist kudos to 
you get some help get some guard rails 
around you call me to put those 
boundaries around you so that you don't 
get sucked right back in there remember 
fifty percent of first marriages end in 
divorce 67 percent you guys second 
marriages end in divorce and 74 percent 
of third marriages why are we doing this 
why because we seek out what's 
comfortable and for you if you have 
narcissism in your childhood or your 
early relationships and this is sounding 
like oh my God this is making sense 
maybe you have a pattern turn definitely 
definitely definitely seek help get 
yourself into counseling get yourself a 
coach if you get into the dating world 
that is what we do we're in the weeds 
looking at red flags we have dating 
scorecards you're filling things out 
what was good what was not good what 
were the green flags what were the red 
flags here so that we keep you out of 
Harm's Way okay and I have two more 
points from Smart dating Academy about 
narcissism and how it can manifest in 
your dating life it can manifest in a 
lot of ways 
um but rage right you don't do what they 
want and they rage and I'm not talking 
Garden variety like oh that hurt my 
feelings I'm talking like take a 
microwave and throw it across the room 
rage they have fits of anger and 
volatility and they say awful mean 
things to you they can swear they can 
insult you they throw things they hit 
and for the most trivial of reasons 
maybe because you moved a glass from 
where they wanted it and you moved it 
six inches over and they have a complete 
hissy fit tantrum rage not acceptable if 
this sounds familiar and you're starting 
to check the boxes here you might just 
have been in a relationship with the 
narcissist and seven like I said blame 
blame is a big big thing that you will 
see out of narcissus again they never 
take responsibility for themselves why 
because they view themselves as the 
victim right low self-esteem grandiose 
sense of importance they think it's 
always going to be your fault they have 
no accountability for when things go 
wrong they they never hurt your feelings 
they just say the truth directly right 
and if you get your feelings hurt you're 
weak you're a wuss it's all your problem 
it's the blame game it's going to be 
your fault it's going to be your kid's 
fault it's going to be their parents 
fault it's going to be your parents 
fault it's going to be their boss's 
fault whatever it is they will blame you 
for anything that you're doing 
narcissist the way I often explain this 
to my clients you guys is there's givers 
and there's takers 
right and we all want to be in 
relationships that are interdependent 
and reciprocal where we give and we're 
given to where we take right and we're 
giving though that's a balanced 
relationship it's like imagining 
yourself on a seesaw you go up you come 
down you go up you come down right it's 
the same thing in a healthy relationship 
but when all you're doing is giving if 
you're the giver and some people like to 
call that codependent right there and 
there's a lot of words around that but 
if you find yourself to be a giver a 
nurturer and you are magnetized towards 
takers you may have a dating pattern 
number one okay and I see that so often 
and often if you were in a helping 
profession teachers nurses chefs coaches 
service providers we give of ourselves 
all day long and give and give more and 
help and answer the late night emails 
and texts and take calls and we always 
want to help and we do podcasts and we 
do these things to help people often 
givers 
like takers because they can give and 
give and give but ultimately what 
happens is it's unfulfilling because at 
a certain point you need to receive 
something back and here's the Rub With 
The Narcissist they don't know how to 
give unless it's the very beginning and 
they're trying to intoxicate you and 
love bomb you they don't know how to 
give long term you cannot have a 
satisfying relationship with the 
narcissist and so often I see people 
coming into my practice and telling me 
God Bella if I could just get the person 
back that they were for the first four 
months of the relationship where did 
that person go guys that was an illusion 
that person never freaking existed that 
person was shape-shifted into someone 
who was transfixed with you who was 
intoxicated with you and by you and that 
person became a different person but 
that's not truly who they were then at 
some point some other red glossy object 
caught their attention or someone else 
tickled their fancy or they just decided 
right now you breathe the wrong way they 
didn't like the way you exhaled they 
didn't like the way you put the peanut 
butter back or put your shoes back in 
the Shoe Closet and now you're dead to 
them and that person who was intoxicated 
with you it's like a Houdini illusion a 
David Copperfield illusion the Statue of 
Liberty disappeared and so did that 
amazing person that first existed and 
love bombed you that person never 
existed and if this sounds familiar to 
you it is okay to extricate yourself 
from this relationship and so often when 
you were with a narcissist they will 
often make you believe that you cannot 
live without them it's abusive nobody's 
gonna date you you're ugly you're fat 
you're poor you need me you're gonna be 
out on the street you're gonna be 
homeless nobody's gonna accept you and 
all of your baggage are you kidding I'm 
the best you're gonna do so you might as 
well stick around here that is so untrue 
that's part of the gaslighting those are 
part of the lies that they're telling 
you to get you to believe those and to 
stay in that horribly toxic relationship 
so if these patterns sound familiar to 
you and you've been with somebody like 
this and you're entering the dating 
world and you need some help around this 
listen to this podcast listen to my 
Instagram live follow us at smartdating 
Academy go to my website 
smartdatingacademy.com download that 
infographic and continue to tune in to 
these podcasts let me know send me 
emails bellat smartdatingacademy.com 
were you in a relationship with a 
narcissist what was it like how did you 
heal yourself how did you get yourself 
out of it what are you afraid of we want 
to hear from you we want to help you and 
so I hope that you took everything and 
then some and took notes on this episode 
today and again people behaving 
selfishly jerkily or like an a-hole may 
not truly be a narcissist in the 
beginning of this episode I gave you the 
nine things in the DSM remember 
grandiose sense of self-importance 
preoccupied with fantasies of success 
power Brilliance beauty or perfect love 
believes that they are special requires 
excessive admiration has a sense of 
entitlement unreasonable expectation of 
favorable treatment is exploitative 
takes advantage of others lacks empathy 
is often envious of others and believes 
that others are jealous of them and 
shows arrogant haughty behaviors and 
attitudes and that's an important one 
narcissists you can often tell a 
narcissist by how they treat people that 
they consider or beneath them how did 
they talk to the wait staff how do they 
talk to the hostess how do they talk to 
the valet how do they talk to the dry 
cleaners how do they talk to customer 
service on the phone when a narcissist 
believes that they are self-important 
and that you are beneath them they can 
become very rageful and very abusive 
very quickly if you are out on a date 
with somebody and they start talking 
down to the wait staff if they start 
talking down to the ballet treating them 
rudely but they're really nice to you 
pay attention trust your gut that is a 
red flag I'm hoisting my red flag my 
kids know I do this when I put my hand 
up in a fist like I'm holding a flag in 
my hand that means red flag Behavior so 
I'm hoisting up the red flag this whole 
segment has been full of red flags and 
red flags of the worst kind I hope that 
you after listening to this feel so much 
more confident in the signs of a 
narcissists and maybe you're maybe 
you're related to a narcissist and it's 
someone you can't break up with maybe 
it's your sibling maybe it's an uncle 
maybe it's a neighbor maybe it's 
somebody that you work with but what I 
want you to do is know that that person 
is a narcissist you're not the crazy one 
this is their own mental health their 
mental issues maybe their disorders that 
they're kind of spraying onto you there 
is nothing wrong with you the best thing 
you can do is to narcissist proof 
yourself from this person is spend less 
time minimize your time around this 
person or around these people as much as 
you can so I wish you a narcissist-free 
day and until we meet again on the next 
episode continue to tune in give us a 
favorable review please if you love this 
I would love nothing more than to hear 
what you thought about this it makes all 
the difference in the world I Don't Need 
a New Year's I don't need a Christmas 
present I don't need a birthday present 
just drop us a great review I love you 
guys and until next time we will see you 
soon 
